ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Education and Culture asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 1164, about contributions to science and university, from the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u2	President. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that the following program is called a livestock contract. However, the customs contract signed by the secretary of State for the European Union is not scheduled for last year, but it is due to be established at the start of the next year. These issues are closely related, so it is only natural that they are discussed. Technical explanations are given on why this is not being done, and that may be the case. But I'm stressing that, on behalf of us at the United States Congress, we feel this is shocking and that the right was to postpone this discussion so that we could discuss this two things together.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u3	The president would like to inform us that this particular assembly case will be distributed later in the week at the General Assembly. It is planned that a discussion on that part of the program can begin right here at the beginning of next week.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u4	To answer, the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, Education and Culture, Social and Housing Ministers, Fisheries and Agriculture Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u5	President. I'd like to speak to the highest. Secretary of finance for government policy on electrical sales. The presidents of the European Parliament recently rejoiced that they had reached a proper agreement with the Northern World, but they see that the new agreement will bring a major increase in land induction and that it will be expected to reach the population. Arctic has been on the average for far too long, but according to the analysis of Pétur Sigurjónsson, a energy expert, pays the lowest electrical price to the lowest power price in the United States. A small price to the North Pole on the GAO and Far Away on the RDP has reduced the average price of electrical energy to an aluminium in this country, to over 26 dollars per megawatt hour. Unfortunately, the new agreement is not valid until November 2018, until the old sale deal is passed. It is worth the effort that North steel used all halls in order to contribute to the stress of sales on energy sales. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether or not he has considered the extent to which the national income has been due to this energy price sales policy and whether he will submit to a change of policy there. It is indeed sad to see that post - colonyism is still a people when it comes to maintaining our self - respect and caring for the interests of future generations. Instead of selling our energy at the best possible price, we are still working to sell it at the sale prices of foreign companies. Reports from 2012 show that Land induction aims to attract data stations with comparable policies on low energy prices. However, the price offered to them is about 46 dollars per minute. Now we live in such a time that a company, including a data plant, would like to pay more for green energy, so I think it's odd that we're still running a sales policy here. There are so many other things that, for example, attract data plants to the country than cheap green energy. Among other things, Iceland considered one of the best countries when it comes to having almost the same temperature throughout the year compared to countries that we would like to compare with.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u6	A respectable president. I'm celebrating the discussion on the state of energy markets in Iceland and the events of Land-activation. This is an extremely important and urgent discussion at any given time because it is one of the main areas of the economy. Some statements debate. The senator is so I can match them, e.g. The fact that Northern Europe, compared with the rest of Iceland's population, has enjoyed a more favorable humor in this latter part of the contract. However, it is always the case with contracts made far ahead of time that it is easy to come to the end of the contract and to criticize back in time. However, at the time of that contract, it is clear that not many were in line outside the country's construction after buying energy. Such long - term contracts must be considered in the light of that. I'm glad that land induction achieves a more favorable agreement when you see the long - term interest of the company and trust the government and management very well to keep in mind the interests of the state there. This is one of the most valuable possessions in the Kingdom. For example, the questions we should have regarding land activation are here: Is there a profit on the investments of Landing? The question is, How much money have we lost because of a lower power price than would have been required? I think it's kind of an unacceptable question. First, we had no other buyer whom we replaced with the one we received. Here's a good example of comparing the benefits we've gained from this contract of not doing anything, not doing anything, not selling any electricity, because it's water that would have just slipped into the sea. [[The president calls.]] The answer to that question is: It appears in the private position of land activation, with its own money of over 200 billion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u7	President. It's a peculiar presentation because many people would have been interested in buying energy in the meantime. Now, let's come back to the current power trade contracts, so let's turn to the deal at Alcoa at the Ryll. There's sales prices on that contract, and it's built on a very similar basis to the old, bad deal with the North Side. It is important to remind you that the contract goes on until 2048. I wonder how much we lose when we have made such a bad deal at the time and have the highest. Secretary of finance, which I assume will not answer, have it calculated? Tells you the highest. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson that there is anything you can do about a national impossible deal with Alcoa? Tells you the highest. Before half a century goes by, does a minister have a chance to open up this gift - making agreement?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u8	A respectable president. They exist - I look like they're here. A senator is one of them, if I recall correctly, she was one of those who was part of a Protestant group at the Köflönnnnna - who would not have liked to use the energy in the country and call it a gift-made energy agreement... [[Up front.]] [[- Paint.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] It's hard to say in one minute if you keep trying to stay up front. When people come to this public address, why? A senator getting an answer from me? [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator, one of those who have been protesting the activation initiatives in this country, speaks of long - term contracts made as some kind of gift contracts. I'm totally off the record. As we look at the great benefits society has gained from building the electricity system, by the electrical prices available to the public in Iceland, because we have done energy projects and have made long-term contracts that buy electricity, all the electricity produced, all day, every single day of the year, only a clearer picture for humans. [[The president calls.]] But we're on the same team when it comes to getting the maximum power prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u9	V.E.G. President. An interview with the highest. A social and housing minister recently found her concern about reducing birth rates in Iceland. You're absolutely right. We Icelanders and I have had the unique position of growing naturally in Europe. The Northern countries have done especially well on European levels, just because of the powerful well - being systems we have around our children's families, birthworm, low - priced nurserys, and child - care systems. The highest financial program. The secretary of finance, the government's policy for government funds for the next five years, says that they do not interfere with child damage, making the income more money - culpable, but it all seems that the child care of people with lower income rates will be reduced. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether it is likely to increase people's desire to raise children in Iceland when support for family members is lowered in this way. And then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Social Affairs who has declared willingness to raise the maternity roof to 500 levels. K. and announced a bill that is supposed to be on the priority right now for the next election in October, when we can expect that bill, and if not standing to raise the roof of your maternity room to 500 you. K. So there are these two questions I'm going to ask the highest degree. Minister: When the birth rate is reduced, would it be appropriate to reduce the rate of pedestrians? [[The president calls.]] And she's going to raise the birthworm, the roof, to 500 of you. K.?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u10	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his inquiry. This has been shown to be something we've been watching that births have declined. It is, in my opinion, one of the consequences of the collapse, the crisis that the home suffered as a result of the collapse of the bank. As we look at the experiences of other nations that have gone through economic hardships, we have seen that births, such as births, are reduced. correspondent in the United States after the Great Depression around 1930 and then back in the oil jar around 1970 C.E. This is something that has proved to be not just happening here but in many other places. What seems to matter most about the number of births is the economic situation of families, so I think that I can thus give a good reason why the government's priorities in stressing the structure of jobs, making sure that people get good and well - paid jobs, should just put them back to their trust to start a home and have children. It may also be transferred to it as long as possible. A senator mentioned about child reform, that the first government put great emphasis on raising child reforms, but it cannot be found that there was a direct relationship between them. First and foremost, it is to make sure that people have a job and receive a good salary that is the basis for making further decisions about their future. You know, about the change in the birthworm system, it's true. A senator says, there is a possibility that I would like to contribute bills based on the proposals that came from my former position. paritaprevir Birkir Jónsson directed for changes in the birthorovation system, as well as for some of the money under the national financial programme for raising the birthworm. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u11	V.E.G. President. It was now two to three years after the collapse that Iceland was never born as many children as it was during those years, so it's not just the economic crisis, though it really does. But it was so that the birthworm suffered a breakdown in the collapse. We made it to our last legion to raise the roof of a maternity clinic about 50 of you. K. The current government has raised the roof by 20 of you. K. Which is practically nothing. The birth failure has not increased since January 1, 2014. V.E.G. A social minister has declared that she wants to raise her maternity calendar to 500 of you. K. per month. Now I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does she support us agreeing to this aspect of our bill to members of a welfare committee, where we recommend that the roof be raised to 500 levels? K.? We could do this with a very small job and legalize it from June 1 or July 1st, the quality of a child's family. [[The president calls.]] It was going to be the highest. Ministers support that? Is she really going to raise the birthworm roof?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u12	A respectable president. Thank you again for the question from what? Senator. There is evidence that there is a budget laid down in this budget, as well as a set priority in the plan on birth and social security changes. It is not necessary to make legal adjustments in order to raise the roof of payment from a birth cutaway fund; however, it is necessary to have money, and the government is to guarantee it. As for changes, as I mentioned regarding the suggestions given to my committee that require legal adjustments, there was a delay in the hysteria for 12 months and a reaction to what we saw in the impairment of the birthworm system, that were less likely to take the birthworm. I want them back to my first answer, i.e. Disturbing about the job life, economic uncertainty, which leads to the main reason why people slow down or have babies. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And we certainly have.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to say to the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers and wish to make a success of their work. I want to talk to you about beach fishing. They have been at the people since 2009, starting the last government. They've been growing up and getting stuck, but there's still things that you can do better. Among these, I believe that there may be a revised shift between areas and the needed flexibility not to be considered for regular days each month where people can choose days and are not up against people in the weather. And this great competition between larger and smaller boats, when the larger boats can go and row, while the little boats on the coast are bound to the harbor, and the pot that is used as an alternative, and less the change, as said itself. I'd like to know if it's the highest. A minister has taken a look at the experience and considered the possibility of promoting this system, which I think everyone today sees that it was a very good thing to do and to be a good antidote to today's subjugated eating system and to increase the possibility of building up a new recruit. But better, if it's enough. I'd like to hear a minister's attitude about whether he's considered this and considered the possibility of a fixed day.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and good health. Coastal Fishing - That's correct, coastal fishing laws were passed in 2009 We remember the discussion that was then about the beach fishing. They believed that one of the faults to them was the very zeal that was actually built into the system that has been exposed to the people since 2009; that they would be tempted to pick up the tons they can pick up in bad weather, etc. You're right next door. Senator that the system has taken its place. Everyone stops, I think, today talking about the beach fishing system being shut down or it's not supposed to be a people thing. Hv. A senator here asks for a division between areas, flexibility, days, and other options. I noticed, and, of course, will be able to keep track of the part of the fishing law that makes it possible for the coasts exactly to follow that in certain areas, D-lands, which were in the discussion not at all long ago, would preferably be able to start early to make better use of the resources there, and perhaps get the most valuable fish. Should Men Choose Days? Let's not rule it out, but I'm not going to say here that's the right way. However, I do not necessarily have to add information to the coastal fishing system. There is something that needs to be carefully considered. However, it is possible to wonder with the shore fishing system who are catching on to it. Are they the professionals? Is it the Hobbys? Was it so that senators and lawyers and something like that were going to be a beach hunt, or were we trying to make fishing in the settlements so that life would come into the harbors, so that the settlements would be stronger and more solid? What was the thought? It is quite worth it, after this experience, to sit over this part of our fishing system; and, as the system as a whole, it is not. I'd like to inform the senators that I intend to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u15	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear that. Minister's going to revise this. I think it's quite time, given the experience that has come from the system, to tailor them lightly by what certainly has been presented. Studies and reports have shown that coastal fishing has been building settlements in villages and coastal areas throughout the country. While there is always room for debate about who are professionals and who are not free to work in the country, we do not want to violate the Constitution of those matters. This should be primarily for those who have lived in the coastal areas, strengthening their work in that area, promoting the possibility of entering the fishing system. I work hard to examine this flexibility by attaching days to major viewpoints, both of them that there are different fishing areas depending on the time of the summer, spring, or autumn. This would come to many views that, whether there were ten or more, they would not go out in all storms and could use the warrant within the month.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u16	A respectable president. We are always talking about a very limited resource in itself. Today, there are 700,700,800 beach fishing permits, if I recall correctly, 700,700,800 people allowed to pick up those 9 you. tons of change. While we have a limited resource, we know only from the entire sea surface, it is difficult to find a way that counts as reasonable for anyone or a way that everyone will agree with. However, it is important that we look at this so that the shore fishing system will do what it was supposed to do at the beginning, to strengthen and strengthen the building blocks, that its yield is more closely processed to the site where it belongs so that it can get more money in the community, that we get the most out of these resources, that the quality is high, etc. That is what may need to be considered in all of this and, of course, how this will be used throughout the country so that the settlements around the country will benefit from this system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u17	A respectable president. I'm in the same area as what I'm doing. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir. I'd like to discuss the fact that births are shrinking in Iceland. This is a process that has occurred since 1960 but to varying degrees. In recent years, the decrease has been tremendously rapid. This is a very serious situation that we face that the population's growing aging has many challenges, and economically it is of great importance that birth rates are high. Thus we maintain, in the long run, important things, such as economic growth and well - being. Of course, for young people, young families, to have children, they need to see that they can provide them with security. Of course, the prerequisite for child rearing is love and affection, while other very important basic premises to follow are basic necessities for money, such as food and clothing. Then we come to the affairs of young people. We are confident that these children will be born to young people, but the situation in Iceland today is that the standard of life for young people has fallen behind in recent years at the time of national preparation. Compared to older generations, young people have not enjoyed the increase in money. On top of that, peddlers of maternity that are offered to people in this country are now shamefully low. The whole system is so ruined, and people can't take advantage of it. The favors are too low, the income roof is too low, and the worm is too short. For those who have mentioned between their hands, such as young people, they have as a group, and taking birthworm too adversely affects their quality of life and their family even more, there is an idea that people will not have children if the situation exists, so they simply cannot provide for them. What's the bottom line? Social Minister for this position? Why is this social group, young people, her, and the government not too high in mind? [[The president calls.]] Why has the birthworm not been raised to make use of it? Fathers are stopping it. Don't you think it's a monopoly on this case in the government, because it's been announced that the roof will be raised, but it won't help?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I reiterate what I said earlier that it has been very clear that the projection is to raise the roof. At the same time, legal adjustments are being made in order to apply the suggestions given in my case to make certain adjustments in the payment of the birthworm so that you can obtain up to 300. K. 100% to meet less income parents. The majority of people taking birthlords is, as noted by the wind. A senator, young people with less income. Then there are also suggestions for prolonging the hysteria. In addition, rural communities have been suggesting that they intend to secure children from 12 months of age, although based on the age of 18 months. It's all in business, and it's very clear in the budget that's already been distributed and made available to the budget board. Regarding the other factors mentioned by the senator, regarding the provision and employment of young people, it is true that they have failed to follow the increases that have been observed. However, I had it checked out specifically, and I introduced the results to the government, and I can do it. Senators found this information on my blog. It shows that in spite of this, we also see that young people say that they are better able to make ends meet than before. More than ever before, there is a lack of material things. It seems to be related to certain lifestyle or community changes in young people. It is longer in school, longer living, later forming a family, later having children, so we see a great change in the period that is being considered. [[The president calls.]] I wondered, " Am I following our neighboring nations in this regard because we have seen similar social changes there? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u19	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. Minister. I've studied what she's taken together on her Web site and seen that she's fine in it, and she's seen the situation quite well. I'll tell her to praise her. But the diagnosis I read, I'm sure I'll bet on a website at the top. Minister, from 2014, now 2016. I'm so surprised. Ministers don't drive things through any faster. It is important and has a long - term impact, a economic effect, not to mention anything else, that we have these matters in a much better way right away. There's no waiting. The collapse occurred so many years ago. This group has waited far too long for its legal hearing. With all due respect to the committee established by the Minister, no committee has been needed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This has been clear. I hope it comes to work immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u20	A respectable president. I once again thank the senator. But I'm going to allow myself to disagree with her, and it was very clear in the results of the committee that they needed the committee, even though only for the fact that there was a clear disagreement that I felt when I made my own decision to go up to the roof first and stress it. There was a disagreement about how to approach things. There is, however, suggestions. But it shall be acknowledged here that there was not a full agreement on the proposals, although I consider it proper to work according to the proposals that the majority of the Committee found regarding changes in the maternity. Then I also want to reiterate what I believe to be the reason. A senator and others have heard me talk very much about, that I believe the housing issues are of utmost importance to this group. We're making a vote at 2nd. about a bill about a general apartment that will be of great importance to young families when we look in the long run. That is exactly what we need to do when it comes to household arrangements. We thought that setting priorities in a way that would build up our job life, making sure that the state's position would be as powerful as we know it is now, and then we could go into rebuilding the welfare system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it takes to build after a crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u21	Mr. President. We Icelanders are rich in resources, but we are not good at negotiating the price of their use. A factory favors, e.g. A catch rate far under the market price. I believe public tenders are the most efficient way of returning the interest of the fish industry's resources to the country, and we are already using outlets, communications frequency fields, and special transport disposals with good results. An invitation would promote fair competition between marine export companies and provide smaller companies with access to dinner. The price would be as if the companies were willing to pay for the resources and at the same time become the prize of government funds. Today, those assigned to eat can put a full catch fee in their own pockets by selling and renting salads. For example, some two hundred cents have had to be paid for. for a kilo of cod for a larger fishing fee while the state collects only 13 cents. Hunting fees. Residents are working on a new arrangement, and last elections won 5-year-olds, particularly for their proposals for a labour tender. Experts who worked, including that the Telematic proposals have pointed out that by well-published tenders, governments could achieve all the premise goals, such as the division between ships, territories, and innovations. I'd like to ask the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers, whether or not they consider it a fair matter that in the state's budget, the largest interest in fishing is in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u22	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the question. Hunting costs are something we know well in this hall, they've been very discussed. I have often considered the fishing rate to be primarily an extra tax on certain parts of the country, especially the country. This is a price that depends on the weight of a company in the country. I've said it officially that the way it is used to calculate the cost of hunting today is too complicated, maybe we should do it in another way. But my basic thought and what I'm wondering is why we're running out one industry using the resources of the country, why don't we raise some kind of use on other sectors as well as using the resources of our country, whether it's electricity or because of the air waves, water, whatever, that's why travel services? Why one resource taken out, or branch? Then I wondered, " What is the best way to do this if we're going to put all the sectors under the same hat that I think would be wise in my own eyes? ' I think it would be best to use the tax system to do that. Of course, there are conflicting views. I'm sorry, I haven't been able to put myself into the ideas that the Entreys have been working on. But I hear they're very controversial, including In the Faeroe Islands. I don't agree with what. A senator says there's too little money in the state fund of resources, not unless we put all the resources under the same hat, of course, it's too small. Is there any other way to obtain some kind of tax or income from the resources? As I said before, I think it would be best to do it through the tax system in some way and to put all the sectores that use resources under the same hat. I don't think there's anything reasonable about taking a special price from one industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. During the current fishing year, the Merit Research Institute proposed codfish 21 thousand tons higher than the previous year. The results of root analysis are an important part of the annual assessment of the European Environment Agency's state of use for the country, and the measures in March indicate the benefits of key bottom-water species. Increased recruitment in fish stocks of cods and exaggerators is expected. In June the proposal for increased codfish is likely to be proposed. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how he likes to rather than divide the extratons between the present bidders, the additional bid will be extended to the highest bidder. Thus, there is experience with the implementation of this kind of export with the market price of markets, and both are desirable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u24	A respectable president. That's right, and hopefully it will be, so we'll see some very favorable numbers about the local fishing bases, and everything really indicates that. [[Up front.]] I can't hear what you're doing. A senator called in.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u25	They'll destroy the stocks as soon as you get there...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u26	Thank you, my dear. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. I love those good words. But to the real thing. No, I don't see it happening that we take what may be added, and we don't know if it will be necessarily added much, but if it does, and take it to an auction. I haven't yet seen an extraction or evidence of a man's intention, e.g. to prevent prices from raising tenders, e.g. Those who have most of them can collect these resources at auction. I would be concerned that the largest companies could offer the highest price and thus keep smaller ones who have less money between their hands from obtaining resources. So I think we must assign in a conventional way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u27	V.E.G. President. I think I'm moved to arise here because of my second answer. Social and housing minister to me. There she said... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u28	That's what I'm talking about. Would a candidate begin a material discussion on this subject that ended in the discussion earlier?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u29	No, I just think it's very important to bring correction here, since a minister was wrong in saying that a change in the law would not be necessary to raise the roof of a maternity vacation. I certainly need to, and therefore I reiterate the offer of our partners, that our bill is granted, and that children's families are raised roofs in their maternity clinics right now. But it really takes a adjustment to raise the roof, and I hope to the highest. Ministers know better about other lawsuits under it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u30	V.E.G. President. We're here to vote for a generalisation bill. These include extensive tenet construction, construction of 2,300 rented apartments for individuals and families under certain limits of income and property. This is one of the greatest tenets that has ever been rented for decades. It's a pleasure to be in the adjustments we now vote on. look to the basis for the granting of stocks and access into the law to provide additional stocks from state and rural areas to areas where rent housing is scarce, and and/or special problems have been taken in order to gain financing of public markets. In addition, localities and e.g. An enterprise in areas to work together for the construction of rent houses. All of these are important and big steps. All of them. The welfare committee is meeting for all the changes involved in this article and the members of the committee. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to accept all the changes proposed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u31	Mr. President. I agree with a pilot, behind the release of this case to 2nd. There is an enormous amount of work on the welfare committee. What a joy it was to produce a broad solidarity, a parapolitic reconciliation, of a very effective change in the bill, all of which we consider to be beneficial! This is shown in an adjustment document on page 4. The important thing to my opinion is that the Commission makes changes that are expected to increase the likelihood that the bill's primary objective will be to reduce the load of income - taxpayers, students, and micromanagers to one quarter to one fifth of income. We also make changes that will increase the likelihood that this system will be permanent and that it will focus primarily on the establishment of the State's budget to be paid directly at Hosbourg Fund instead of going to the State. This, along with many other important changes, puts you in line to establish the hope that this will be a means to benefit those who earn money.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u32	V.E.G. President. What a joy it is to be here at a vote by the 2nd. on this important matter. If this bill is legal, it will create a powerful rent system for people of the two lowest incomes and contribute to the greater security of the citizens of the country. I could use some. It is a disgrace in Icelandic society that all too many people do not have real homes but live in rooms or houses that are disloyal. Thank you. paritaprevir Elisu Lára Arnardóttir for her excellent work in this and welfare committee for a particularly pleasant and good job. I am, like the rest of the Committee, not comfortable with everything, e.g. I'd like to keep a present name, which said under the bill, but me and we in the United States have decided in view of the good solidarity we have achieved to support all the changes made by the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u33	V.E.G. President. I come up here to describe my satisfaction that this case has come to this point and we are completing it with a vote here today. It's been a lot of work. The committee found that the office manager of the Ministry of Health said that there had never been as much consultation as this. There was a bit of a push after the case, but I think that the time I've done this has made this place a place where it's come to be, that everyone agrees, which is an enormous pleasure. I think we should take advantage of this in the future, that there is much greater solidarity to be achieved at councils and committees on such important matters. This is a big case, and I really hope that it will lead to what it is supposed to do, to create a lease in which people pay 201⁄225% of their provisions. It would be a great victory if we got it. But in the bright future, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u34	A respectable president. We're going here for a vote 2nd. about the bill to set up a general apartment. The bill carries considerable changes, but as noted above, the main objective of the bill is to ensure safe housing for those in the most efficient groups. This bill is part of the terms of collective agreements. Therefore, a dignified president, all welfare committees have met up with the changes proposed here, and I would like to thank the members of the welfare committee. Everyone had to yield. However, compromise shows that we can work together, reach a conclusion as in this case, a respectable president, hopefully in the near future, for those for whom this bill is to work. We independents will face the changes presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u35	A respectable president. I would like to thank the manager of the case, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, very much for all her work, not only here at the council, but as a representative of the project on the future housing plans, as well as the head of the Committee, who also lived there and was still there. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - Þór of Þórðarson, who suggested the suggestion to change the support of social housing in the way suggested here. I'd also like to thank the entire committee for their vast amount of work. It is especially helpful to see that there is solidarity regarding the changes being made here. When it comes to housing, we need to consider not just some homes, but that our homes are as varied as there are many of them. Therefore, we need to have a wide range of solutions to housing markets; special property, housing conditional; we've already agreed to a housing partnership bill, and an active tenure, and that's what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u36	A respectable president. Sometimes the way the General wins is very dignified. It happens from time to time, must say. It's such a case. I think it's appropriate to mention that I will be sitting by every vote on the case, including. Because I have a 30% share in a part - time property, and to leave no doubt about any kind of conflict of interest, I will sit by every vote on the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u37	Mr. President. There are two important changes to make. The bill's focus, which is a reason to draw attention to. On the one hand, a different wording is used when it comes to separating the group. Instead of the treatable chemical people who were supposed to be in the law in several places, they simply refer to the income and property boundaries defined in the bill itself. As we have seen, it's the two most efficient fifths that have access to the system. The second, and just as important, change is making the policy itself, that rent costs usually do not become more than one quarter of the income, into the legal objective. It was such a liquid reference or goal that was laid down on accountworthy grounds but was not in the law itself. So here it is suggested that this system's primary objective be legal. Then the purpose of the law must be met as well as the immediate action taken if necessary, so that this purpose of the law will be met as well as that of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u38	Mr. President. This is one of the key elements of the bill defines general growth and income and property boundaries. The social services committee's proposals provide a little different approach to those persons who can work within the system. Of course, it is, of course, first of all, housing institutions, which we suggest to call in place of local apartment societies, but they are also rural communities and agencies that are entirely owned by rural society, and even third-way lawyers who are active in remuneration of these laws and who were previously required to borrow from apartment loans as set up in Article 37. it's a law of housing. In other words, the transitional proposal of the welfare committee increases the privacy of society in making it a social form for the release of their homes, which they prefer, and consider to be the most beneficial. I think this is a very important change, as well as the fact that it ensures equality between its members today, when housing companies in part-social organisations are allowed to continue working with them and others who would otherwise have had no option but to open up to it in the way this is done. That's why I specifically recommend this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u39	Mr. President. Here are two very important changes made at 13. as a reason to draw attention to. One option is to raise the state's establishment supply by up to 4 percent when it comes to an apartment building on the farms they're building or earning for their clientele group and because of an apartment building designed for students or microdoers. This 4-point increase is irreversible, is concentration. It will also be permitted to give up an additional 6 percentage points from the state because of apartments in areas where rent houses are scarce or there is a special problem with financing. These are areas of the country that are most difficult for them to deal with. This adds equality and increases the likelihood that rent income will achieve the goal of 20-225%. This is especially true of the first law, where it is apparent that 4 percentage points of additional production for the construction of the most income - rich groups of rural society, academics, and invalids is highly supportive in these substances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u40	Mr. President. I'm not going to apologize for explaining my position on this important matter in a few comments. This is the most important move in my opinion at 19. ... whereit really is a completely altered basis for tenure. Instead of renting out to each individual building account for itself at a housing center or another party, those who own and run houses get a huge amount of autopilot to decide their rent, although within them, they may, of course, be self-sustained by their unions, and they can fulfill all their commitments. This is an important change because it makes it easier for active partners to add their living quarters to this system. It lays the basis for achieving the aims of social mixing and makes companies such as social clubs, student social society, Emessthesary of the Microcracy, and so forth possible to determine the rent in accordance with its social romance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u41	Mr. President. Here is the payment of the regulations for the Homing Fund, as well as the laying on of major changes on the matter by the welfare committee. First, there is the restoration of the Kingdom's system and building up a treasure for houses. As a result, it takes decades for the fund to be created and to become self-sustained and may gradually be replaced as the sponsor of this system. Also, the remaining portion of rent is reduced when they have canceled their housing. The bill assumed that 2/3 parts of such rent paid in Homingham Fund, which is suggested here for 40%. It means on the other side that the law of the law itself increases in the same way more and faster. For the Homing Fund, it is well seen with the recycled institutions, so I believe there is a good balance here between the two parties, i.e. The treasure of the house, and the host of the apartments, that both parties should be able to become self-sufficient for the future in their business. [[The president calls.]] And ends with my special tours in the symposium, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u42	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here especially with regard to Housing Fund because that part is particularly important for the construction of this new system. Our goal with him is that the system will become sustainable in the long run so that it can actually continue to produce apartments for the homes that need it based on the preparations that are currently introduced from state and rural society. I'd also like to say specifically that this is an idea that took a little time for someone to digest when it first came out from Iceland's Common Association; it was looking for role models in Denmark, where the system has just worked for decades and given a good test when it comes to maintaining itself and continuing to support the families that need it. This bill reflects great cooperation with the labor movement, with the workforce and the European Union. I sure hope that it will live our lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u43	A respectable president. We're here to vote on final budgets for 2014. Hence, it should be noted that all committee members of the budget signed the committee's opinion and therefore completely agreeing on the matter, but it has been considered here today as important for members of the Parliament to work in harmony and harmony. Therefore, I greatly thank and thank the share of the budgetary committee for the well-work of this case as well as the other matters of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u44	Mr. President. I was aware of my support for this matter, but I could not explain to him during the discussion. In the contract we are here to negotiate, we are agreed on by Iceland to bid the Faeroes to cod an increase of 50 percent. Now all I want is a good mover. However, we have had a very difficult dispute with them about mackerel, and the government was very harsh about it from this chair. We too are upset with them with matters related to carbons and herrings. In those circumstances, I find it a strange negotiation technique to award the Faeroeses by a large breakfast of their cod. I followed up with the issue of the foreign matter committee as to what was behind it. There was no explanation. It doesn't make any difference that I'm going to support this. But I feel that the negotiations of the Icelandic government in this case are not exemplary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u45	V.E.G. President. It's kind of a scandal mission. I have to come here and pray to the highest. Social and housing minister's apologies. I told her that she was wrong, that there needs to be a change in the law to turn the roof into the maternity law, which is so that if you want to raise the roof, the law will do it. For my review, I'd like to say that I've been able twice to raise the maternity roof, and both of these were by law. But I pray to the highest. Minister of the Fraternity Apologize for accusing her of misinformation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u46	A respectable president. Only for our next session, a respectable president. I was kind of expecting that at the same meeting, a tax agreement would be made to the person who touches the very agricultural equipment, such as the livestock contract. I just wanted to check out the highest. The president, whether it is fully clear that tomorrow or any of the next few days, he will be on the schedule so that both relevant areas of agriculture will be discussed at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u47	The president may inform us that he assumes that the convention case will be distributed here at the General Assembly in all the following days and is going to be discussed at the beginning of the next week. Like what? The members of Parliament know that Thursday and Friday are committees, but as early as next week's beginning, it is intended that these matters be scheduled.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u48	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in goods, equipment laws, and customs, which is a quirk. 1108, 680. The bill of this work prepared in the industry and innovation Department discusses the changes necessary to make on products, equipment laws, and customs in accordance with agricultural contracts and equipment contracts signed on February 19 of this magazine. The agreements are made on the basis of agricultural legislation, i.e. Work contracts for the manufacturer's horticultural products, labour conditions for cattle breeding and the working conditions for sheep sheep. A farming contract is made on the basis of equipment law, which is called the General Aggressor Convention. The contracts were signed on behalf of Iceland's Government by the then marine and agricultural secretary and financial secretary in advance of the necessary legal requirements of the General Assembly. The subject of the bill is to validate the changes expected by the contracts, and it is necessary to do so that the contracts can enter into force on January 1, 2017. At that time, contracts for the working conditions of cattle farming and sheep farming were signed by Iceland's Farmer Association on the presupposed agreement of farmers. The results of the petition of farmers were presented on March 29th. in which the contracts were approved. In many respects, this is a landmark agreement, not only for farmers but also for consumers, the people of the country. The contracts are building solidity in the country and making it easier for new ones to develop. The main objective of the contracts is as follows: Supporting the growth of agricultural production, improving the competitiveness of farms and farms, promoting a broad range of wholesome quality products at fair prices for consumers, promoting agriculture as a industry in scattered areas, protecting the national food and food security and promoting sustainable agriculture. To help achieve these goals, the current system had to be changed, especially to facilitate recruitment and to make support forms more general and less dependent on individual habitats to open up new instruments. In view of the objectives described above, it was emphasised on the stipulation for both sheep and cattle production to disappear from the supportive material in farmers so that new people will always have to buy the right to support and, in fact, the market for milk. The present system means that the ever lower percentage of public support is useful to farmers as more and more shop into the articles. Thus, the transport has increased the cost of production and has made innovation more difficult. The payment target system in the stages and support formats will be reassigned. Moreover, a step is taken to expand the support so that it is not as attached to sheep and milk production as it is today. This adds freedom of movement and flexibility to farmers. Thus, it is expected to increase the amount of money that falls to the ground by transfer from sheep and milk agreements. A respectable president. The benefits of the nation's agreements are primarily to ensure a wide variety of products, with wholesome products at a reasonable price. By paying and reducing the cost of production, consumers are about to reduce their food prices. The situation of antibiotic resistance in Iceland is considered to be good and better than in our neighboring countries. This situation is even it is due to the incorporation of antibiotics into animal feed to a growing point no longer authorised in this country and to the increased use of responsible antibiotics by both veterinary surgeons and doctors. It will emphasize cultural issues that matter to us all, such as the preservation of Iceland's goat stock, products such as wool and organic production, as well as the development of forestry. The Based effect of the contracts is increasing support to farmers and communities, including with increased combs in regional support, special remunerations and so-called beelis support. It also includes new opportunities to produce beef, e.g. in the settlements previously almost exclusively of sheep breeding territory. There is also an investment support that is new to the contracts, which is designed to facilitate new investments and innovations. In a frame deal, a community book was followed by a book about confidence in wood and living in the countryside. This includes some. to find specific ways to improve the sustainable development of the rural areas, increase in food production and production, and in particular, greater prices will be provided in the urban areas. In particular, infrastructure development, such as communication, communication, and electricity, will be considered as well as their contribution to activities related to climate change. This will be a means by which farmers will have confidence in the financial needs and will be more likely to pay for domestic exchanges on farms. I've already requested nominees in a group to discuss these matters. A respectable president. This is the first time that all the livestock contracts and equipment contracts are negotiated at once. Its purpose included to coordinate certain aspects of the agreements and also to reconcile their duration, but the contracts are made to ten years and to take effect on January 1, 2017, the bill will be legal. During the contract period, two reviews of the contracts, 2019 and 2023, will be proposed to evaluate whether the objectives and the changes proposed in the contracts have been established. In all these contracts, you will find certain conditions to pay for the producers who receive contributions from the contracts. For the first time, the right of married couples and farm members who work together to ask for the exchange of pay under the contract, while systematic barriers to domestic products have prevented these changes. It is also covered with support provided by an individual manufacturer. Do I consider this a positive step, including? ... equalities in Iceland. In the agreement on the working conditions of the manufacturer of the horticultural products, significant changes are not expected. The producers of paprika, pickle, and tomatoes will continue to receive direct payment for their production. The contract holds the share of the state in the cost of distribution and transport of electricity, but special contracts are valid for what has not been part of a domestic agreement. In particular, maximum support to each manufacturer is recommended due to bone repair and subsidies on the transport and distribution costs of electricity. Large changes are aimed at a contract on the working conditions of cattle farming. The small amount of combs on the inside because of milk in addition to the flogging is increased, but the degree of payment to the payment level will be stepd down. Businesses with payment targets will also be limited but with a long lead-in period for producers. A review of 2019 will take into account whether the milking system will be removed from January 1, 2021. A few new projects are recommended in the contract, support for the manufacture of beef and investment support. The contract also expects changes in the prices of milk and dairy products and the official prices of the present film being removed. It is then recommended in the contract that aquaculture and agricultural minister will make changes in customs and amplifications will bring up the price of certain dairy products. Emphasis in a contract on the working conditions of sheep raising are somewhat changed from the previous contract. In the contract, the quality of management is improved and payments to the payment level are stepped down to the contrary. Sheep - raise funds will be adopted in 2020 and bee support in 2018. The beelis support is primarily designed to support a family home. In addition, wool care and regional support will continue to be provided, but it will be further developed in cooperation with a kennel. Investment support is then recommended because of recent development and changes in buildings and initiatives on the value of sheep products. Several focus changes are made in a general agricultural work contract according to the current farm contract. Donations of cash, jewelry, or other valuable personal property. At that time, increased emphasis on agricultural concentrations is put on new support by the so - called land payment paid on every cultivated land harvested for feeding. There's a lot of emphasis on innovation under the contract. Increased contributions are being made to improve the production of organic products and support for the assessment of plant resources, goat stocks, porcine investment support and forest production support. The contributions to the development of certain habitats, along with contributions to the genetic committee of the agricultural sector and the Agriculture Fund, will continue to be made. Since the provision of existing agricultural legislation assumes that agricultural contracts will run their course at the end of 2016, it is necessary to make the adjustments recommended by the bill. A respectable president. The bill is divided into three chapters. Its section I considers the change in agricultural law. Significant changes in the prices of farms are made and are proposed on the bill to put down the current prices committee. Instead of it, they will be assigned a so - called eutrophication committee of dairy products, which will have the responsibility of putting milk products in the market market position of revenues and verifying the prices of peeloff sites. While milk is still in the market, the Committee will also determine the price of the manufacturer for milk produced within the payment mark. Changes in IX are also suggested. and the X section of the Act on System Change which stipulates agreements on the working conditions of sheep farming and cattle breeding. This section suggests changes to explain the role of the European Commission on the market agreements. Il. section of the bill discusses key changes in the regulations of the agricultural law due to a framework of the General Agri-Aggressive Work Programme, which deals with support across all habitats. The bill contains changes in focus to target 2. g. The law. It also gives particular attention to the support expected by the contract, including Achieving land payment, developing productions of habitats, and initiatives of individual habitats are required. In III. in the bill, you will find an adjustment to Article 12. Tolls on tollovates as a marine eco-gri-efficiency minister and fortifications of certain dairy products. If this bill becomes legal, farmers will be created working conditions for a longer time than they have been to ensure a sense of leadership for agriculture. In addition, a review of the agreements will allow measures to be taken if it becomes clear that the objective of the contracts is not successful. Then the changes the bill will expect to produce a more varied agricultural environment and an increasing production of goods in Icelandic goods. Then, if the bill is legal, there will be some influence on the activities of the Food Agency that are holding the farm payment where new contributions are proposed in the contracts that will lead to increased projects for the Agency in the up-to-dates and increased outdoors for the manufacturer's products. A respectable president. They often hear that there is no need to support Icelandic agriculture; they defend themselves. In this regard, remember that because of Iceland in the Northern Hemisphere, production conditions are more difficult than in our neighboring countries, we want to be self-sustained in our food production and support the wholesome production of food here. OECD provides a list of manufacturing support, so-called Producer Support Estimate, a unit of total support for agriculture, both direct support and the marketing support for tolls on import. In 2014 this support was measured in Iceland by 48%, while the countries above us were Norway, Switzerland, Korea, and Japan. This shows that similar support is common in countries and particularly in areas where agricultural production conditions are difficult. It is worth remembering, then, that Finnar has temporary authorization from the European Union, which needs regular improvements to strengthen its agriculture beyond what another person's relationship allows. A respectable president. I have now explained the key points of the bill and the reasons for its contribution and suggest that it be referred to a 2nd cover. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u49	A respectable president. I wanted in the highest. A minister will determine whether he would not feel bad about the lack of a definite way out of the greeting system. The competition for agricultural competition in Iceland consists mainly of two main costs, the cost of weddings, and the cost of growth. If he's going to be self-sustained and needs less subsidies, it's got to end. A respectable president. I must also ask the highest. Minister to Whether it is reasonable to consider that a government that has more than one third of national support in the last days of his terms will complete contracts beyond any other time, i.e. to ten years, about as much money and important policy decisions as this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I think the way that goes in these contracts is in terms of the greeting system as well. A senator came in with a very reasonable approach. It's clear that the goal is to drop the system. It is included in some adjustment or is done at a certain time. To answer that, as well as to the second question of the senator, it is proper to remind them that in the contract there are two revisions, i.e. 2019 and 2023. Since a senator made it a subject of the government's involvement in a strange place with this case and plans to finish it, I don't think that's because these reviews are in exactly the case. We see, of course, what goes forward. There are fences, too. If you do not agree to meet the criteria set out in the 2019 contracts, it is clear that they need to establish and respond in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u51	A respectable president. It's clear that we're at the highest. Ministers don't agree with the agreement at all. This is a lost opportunity for improvement and improvement in Icelandic agriculture, which has enormous access to parishion. This is a major system of changes that are not new but that are fought to break out of the pedigree system in this process of negotiation. I'd like to ask the minister how binding the agreement is, because when I took it here earlier in the season, it was told that it would be binding to an approved budget following the approval of this bill for 2017. Then I ask if there is a priority in the 2017 fiscal agreement, and whether it is actually not fully validated until new more things have come into force at the General Assembly and accept new budgets for that year, in which it is declared that the government that is currently on the move will not submit and provide financial laws for that year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u52	A respectable president. It is natural to realize that when you make a deal, you are making a commitment in a certain way. It is also quite clear that any government must be able to decide in some other way whether it would like to ask for a change in the agreement or something like that. On the other hand, I thought it would be a little strange to do so, at least without some sort of adjustment or discussion. Then there are two revisions, as I said before, 2019 and 2023, and, of course, it allows the government at that time to take over the contracts. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator who clearly understands these agreements, and really I think that this must be true of the entire industry where this contract is about to make most of the changes made for decades, just as I believe that it is the most fundamental system changes. In his speech, a senator put it that way. I'm sorry to hear that. A senator doesn't think it's enough, but they're huge. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u53	Mr. President. V.E.G. Here a minister reasoned from many of the people involved that this system change is necessary to eliminate the value of the Convention's manufacturing rights, and that it has become difficult to recruit and to make interest payments for banks, etc. It is, of course, true that there is a problem. This has especially been true in the case of lactic acidosis. Much less a argument to the sheep part. However, there are no reasons to believe that in order to cope with that problem, direct payment needs to be discarded, payment targets to be discarded, and the State's support of domestic needs has to be stopped and that it is in effect taking up indirect export improvements again, which are here to do. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Was it never offered on the part of the State to consider other ways to handle this problem? Of course, there is no physical law that such contracts need to be bought and sold on the market. It is only possible to have another arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u54	A respectable president. Of course it is worth considering whether it's the right way to stop paying and so on - that was the way that came out of these contracts. If there's anything else been checked out, I just don't trust me, OK? A senator, to tell about it as I stood a little far away from this at the time. At the very least, that was the conclusion of the agreement. Of course, there are two groups who negotiate or communicate. However, I'm going to allow myself to protest that this exportment may be called an amendment. Today, if I remember correctly, these numbers are moving about 1/3 out of the production; I'm still going to be on notice. So I don't think it's right to call this an export. I think the conclusion, i.e. starting with a review of 2019, I'm fine. [[The president calls.]] It gives them the opportunity to see if the faults are on the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u55	Mr. President. The system of overproduction and exporting was canceled in 1991 with the first large market agreement. That system was bankrupt, both economic and political. It cannot be overlooked that by turning the government's support of what is sold in the domestic market - and moving it to public payments based on the production of milk or making a kilo of meat and payment for each fixed item, regardless of whether it is produced within the country or exported - direct exports are in effect being adopted. At best, they can be spoken of as indirect, since they cease to distinguish between the support they receive to produce for the people themselves and the rest of the exported. This is, in my opinion, the most dangerous part of this deal, and there are many more precautions in it. I'm never going to, while a drop of blood runs into my veins, to support that men will launch the agriculture into the flagrant miseries that he was in before the contract in 1991 and make the national property. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u56	A respectable president. Let's just disagree on that, me and him. Senator, this is some kind of export improvement. It is true, however, that the arrangement for these improvements is being changed. At the same time, however, new payments are being brought in, e.g. Farm support, country support, etc. Each of us can have a different view of what this really means. But I don't think that it is being specifically supported or encouraged to get some sort of export improvement by this method.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u57	A respectable president. I am one of those who find it hard to understand why government funds go to these projects every year; in such marked aspects of food production, lamb, and milk mainly. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there is any hope that we will no longer have to support our agriculture so much in Iceland. I think we're getting out of a world movie where there was a risk of overproduction, and that's why we had to limit production, to the image that we're going to talk about in excess of what we wanted; and we have very good products. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he agrees with my understanding of these agricultural contracts that they are looking much more at exports; that Icelandic farmers are looking for exports, due to demand for skils and lamb and other foods; and therefore, the provision limit should be proposed. Are we not seeing, hopefully in the near future, that when farmers take up more exports, there would be no need to spend so much money from a government fund to support the production? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u58	A respectable president. I think we can have a vision of the future that agriculture could be in the same position as the modern fishing industry; probably one of three such non-resurrection roads in the world. Of course, it would be a wish that we had agriculture, which would also be without support. Is it not, then, that it would be just the first agriculture in the world that would have no strength or customs protection or anything like that? It is now that most, if not all, countries of the world have some protection for their agriculture, whether in the form of sponsors or tolls or both. I mentioned in my opening speech that of our neighboring countries, Norway and Switzerland, they have a considerably higher strength than we, and we combined, by customs protection. It is simply because these nations think like Icelanders. We want to protect ourselves from the production. We must have a measure of food security. It's hard to do agriculture in these parts, in the three states I mentioned here. I can totally agree with a senator that, hopefully, at some point, we'll be able to have such agriculture that it just doesn't have to be strengthened. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, we will continue to make sure that in the countryside all over the country, people who can produce goods can live.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u59	A respectable president. Why not set the exact prospect of being just one of the few countries that doesn't have to draw money into the agriculture business? We have a fine example. Of course, the production of fish is food production, although I may at times feel forgotten when it comes to food security and other activities. We are one of the world's largest fishing nations. We're gonna do it without a direct government strategist. We do things under difficult circumstances in this country without drawing money from public funds to do so. Work conditions can be improved in a variety of ways by ensuring a general basis. I don't think that if we're going to take the job now to strengthen domestic food production in any way or commercial life in the country we're going to do it like that, we're going to put so much money into a very specific factor, which is milk and lamb. However, if I am going to try to see these agricultural contracts in any positive light, I feel that my focus is changing that this production limit is being removed to open up the means for farmers, those with good products, on foreign markets. [[The president calls.]] And then, if that happens, hopefully, we will be able to see a blessed opportunity to eliminate such a great government grant.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u60	A respectable president. I think it's perfectly clear that these contracts are exactly an opportunity. There are opportunities for farmers to look at their productions and see how they can get more from their products. I think it's safe to say that some people see tracts in their ability to move more products, to larger markets. Here we have some ideas on how to increase the share of this production at home. We're working on a project that you may be familiar with, the name Food Land of Iceland. There are more and more people wondering about this. So, the contracts, I think, can lead to a lot of improvement in their habitats, if they succeed in doing what they're thinking. Of course, something has to be overcome along the way. We know that too. But in view of what others are doing and the specific circumstances in the country, there is nothing too great or too unusual for them to do. [[The president calls.]] We're primarily thinking that we have a large country, few farmers, difficult to produce, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u61	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the story. There are some points that I would like to start by celebrating, including the length of the contracts and that they feel that there are more general forms of support than before and the emphasis given. to the many kinds of earth that are in the land, and that the goats may come in there. In addition to the fact that husbands and wives can finally be registered together for payment. But I'd like to hear a little from the highest. Ministers on which region of the country's more specific resources will achieve most, including It's bee money. And also, if there is an idea of the implementation of the production balance intended to prevent overproduction, as this should come about right now as soon as the contract is approved. We are faced with the immediate pursuit of overproduction.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u62	A respectable president. Thank you for this inquiry. I agree with what. A senator that it is important that the contracts remain this long so that farmers, those with the contract, will have a vision of the future. I wish we could have done that in more of these important jobs. The agreements show that there are two things to do. They're going to try to find areas that are best needed on special farms or based support. Also, it is decided to appoint a group to participate in urban activities, to determine what action needs to be taken. They're being assigned to that group these days, asking for nominees. Regarding which areas are to be watched, the Agency has been commissioned to investigate it and, at the same time, recommend it. There's no such thing as this. I can't really tell you how far the Agency is at that job either. [[The president calls.]] But the Agency has been given this role and will without fail return the results sooner than later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u63	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the answers. Another thing I'd like to ask about is the new recruits that are supposed to come in. I find it rather difficult to determine whether they'll be successful, since these new contracts have not really been defined as agriculture. So we're going to see possible exports and whether these will be for those who come in after the contract goes into effect, how short they must have been when the contracts go into effect, and whether they are only for young farmers or for older farmers as well. Actually, we're going to see the update output. I'm asking if the Minister had a visual on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u64	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asked me one question I must admit that I need to scratch my head over: How do you define replacements? Is it a young farmer who is about to leave, or are we talking about older farmers who may change their territory or do something else? I can't answer that here. I don't think I'm far enough in my seeds to do that. However, with regard to recruitment concentrations, it is one of the steps to take, to define the output accurately, and exactly how to expand it. This, however, is very important. A senator suggests that the definition lies as soon as possible, so those who are in business or who consider where they are. So I want to thank you for your discussion and tips. But like a dog. A senator hears, and members of the general body know certain things in these contracts that require overexploitation, research, and then are implemented and completed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u65	Mr. President. Now it's bad not to have an old seminar and a proper speaking lesson. Of course, a lot of the agreements are worth a lot of money. It is also true that humans are trying to deal with the problems that have been carried out by the current system, especially in recent years, where, of course, the highest points of concern have been discussed, i.e. a high price for a time formed in dairy cows, where farmers in the article and those growing up had to buy some expensive sentences. The banks financed this at the feast, and a lot of people paid off because of that. This problem was far less common in the sheepfold, and it really was unfair to compare these two things together. There, the rate of production was much lower, and these problems were not greatly reduced. But there comes a time when we see the best methods to deal with them. There, while I can agree that there are other positive efforts, though all are now weak, such as those who are going to accept this agreement, there is positive effort. to pay for innovation, support of organic farming, or to promote such a vision in agriculture, breeding, or sex reforms, or such. I'm not part of the group that's overwhelmed by the government's support of domestic agriculture. In recent years, it has fallen very rapidly compared to national product production. By now, the state's support of GDP is about 0.5◯7 percent of GDP, and even if toll protection is taken and calculated in support, it is not likely to reduce to 1.5% of GDP, a ratio of perhaps 5% by 151⁄220 years at the highest level. Economically, it is not a major matter, as some speeches would expect, that this is a bottomless pit that will absorb much of the nation's tax. It's not. The system was expensive, and it went bankrupt, and there was no political support for it as it was in the 1990's, when this was BS, men exported part of the production with direct exports from state funds, and all support was broken off that the Icelandic taxpayers provided by reducing prices to consumers at international markets. I hope they're never going back on that track. But let's see. The first thing I want to criticize here is the work on this contract. It was too closed and too narrow for political isolation by the forward party, both in the board of directors and in the leading of the town council. This led to a great deal of criticism among farmers, as we know, and almost rebellion in the case of cow farmers, where the root of the problem, in fact, was subject to significant changes. Then it is a planned change that would include delinquency for farmers. They replaced subsidies at a small sales point in 1991 and have helped farmers, especially sheepfolds, to do much. They have, in many cases, been the only money, the only money these finite families have ever seen, monthly checks from a government fund in the form of bone rent. Similarly, a payment target was adopted, based on what had been sold on the domestic market the previous year or in the grossly laid form. It was decided in 1991 to clear up exports, direct support to farmers, and reduce the cost of production so that the intermediate groups could not pick them up and contribute to both sides, improve farms, and reduce prices to consumers at national markets. Now it all seems forgotten. This was linked to the nation's nation, where farmers and agriculture greatly contributed to the recovery of their contracts and to the loss of inflation by expositing ahead of the other announced increases in farms. They may recall famous pictures in which the chairman of the Santy Union of Farmers was between the late late Einar Oddur's Kristjánsson and the President of ASI when signing contracts. What worries me most is that now it's time to sink this separation between the national market and what he needs and the support of the state. True, some of this happened during recent losses when sheep farmers took out the export value and when the milk industry began to pay full prices for all produced milk. But it has nothing to do with the basic structure, and it could continue, to assure Icelandic consumers and Icelandic taxpayers that their support for agriculture will benefit them and will not be thought of for others. It follows that when the supporting system is converted from the current system to provide fixed repairs with each kilogram of meat and each litre of milk and to pay firmly for each planned item, there is a double production motivation in that support system. That's obvious. How, then, will people make sure that this will not lead to the production of reduced prices and tribulations in the markets here and to the forced transfer of the excess product with varying results? After five or eight years, what will be the answer to the taxpayer? Or a speaker here from this speaker asking: How much of the government's direct support goes to the export? There's no way to divulge it. All you can say is: Well, remunerations are so high, and bone - related production support is so much. Yes, 303/40% of this is being exported, ergo, in value of the support that actually leaves the country. I also worry that there is a risk of increased production, let's say, for example. A significant explosion or a deliberate explosion in sheep farms will result in unnecessary modern waste management and environmental considerations. With the number of sheep in place, it is now at a rate of about 150. The wealth and say that the increase would not be in areas where the condition of bait is best but even in the soda belt, does that not put a strain on the surface? Yes, I'm afraid so. And the strange thing is that this sheep's contract is the worst off than the most prosperous flocks of the land, the Strand County, the Valley, the northwest country, the northeast corner, the Skaftfells County. There are very careful assessments that farmers themselves have undertaken showing that the support of sheep farmers in the Strand County or Northern County is reduced by 19% to an absolute value during the contract period. Looking ahead in the future is a good thing for earners of money. Of course, this is happening by the fact that the contract has a built - in pattern of 1% atrophy a year. This happens by disappearing of 0.7% of the system of application, but some in these areas have benefited from it. This is accomplished by moving between areas and for other reasons. Then it's the insurance policy of this deal, but many have overstepped the fact that it's all so well-secured. But how is that guaranteed? It's based on prices. That's compared to a consumer price index. But here, of course, we are discussing, in effect, some of the ideal farmers. This is not guaranteed by a pay number, pay development. No, I hope farmers are the only class in the country that for the next ten years is going to give up all the money gain in terms of this about. half of the income that has come out of the market agreements. How do you get money, topv. Minister? Is it not when the pay is higher than the prices? When the pay card increases beyond the price number, there will be a real level of purchase gain. But this isn't the deal, no. Here's this big pay-mail contract with an oral credit number. Ergo: If you continue to have a good trend in the commercial businesses of the country, and money gains increase in real value over the next ten years, it will be because the pay will increase more than the price paid. Farmers should not get anything out of this part. Is that not the case, then, of farmers' wages, especially sheep farmers, have come directly out of the market agreements? And perhaps all of them really because the input has hardly been sufficient for variable costs. I also criticize the lack of environmental awareness in this contract. How is it that the government who signed the Paris Convention a few months ago will then make a large frame deal with agriculture and farmers until ten years ago, and nothing will happen when men plan to make some sort of Scot in it? Why is it not built into this contract that is largely involved in land healing, foresting, the recovery of wetlands? Why is it not built into this agreement that's taking on energy exchanges in agriculture, where, according to incidents, people could build their homework, they could electricalize their motor fleet, an elevator in the outdoors, and smaller machines? A big effort could be made to make agriculture greener and more sustainable. We left greens critical of the lack of environmental thinking in the contract, and very little is dealt with as much as organic farming there. The connection to consumers is, in effect, lost in this system-change agreement when tax costs have begun to flow to the exporting abroad. In fact, there is a lack of a general view of the future far too attractive in the contract, I simply have to say. I feel like there's no forward vision and ambition for the Icelandic agriculture in the contract. How's the pig farm? Is it not true that if the toll agreement is introduced and the article is at the same time dealing with billions of costs for the DPC, it will be off, at least in the families' houses? Perhaps one or two factories remain, perhaps not even. Is it our future, rather than nurture and support family unity? You might, for example. continuing to improve crops to become more sustainable and to benefit the environment as, of course, good and good food is being produced in relevant regions or countries instead of being transported abroad. There is one good reason why many others are involved in supporting domestic food production and the domestic food industry. This cannot be avoided with regard to the customs contract. It is now announced that he should be here after the weekend. They hear reports from the board of directors that these two are completely intertwined. The second category will not pay the street of the market agreement unless the tax agreement is provided or vice versa. Is that right, chief? Minister? Is it the political moat? That the Independence Party supports the agricultural contracts with a rabid attitude toward getting the customs contract, in which people see some granddeer? How did that contract come about as it was made and fit into the uncertainty of the agriculture faces? May I remind you that in addition to the uncertainty, Iceland's rules are now linked to loyalty and animal health by the fact that we have to issue a prohibition on raw meat import and raw products. In addition, over the next few years, agriculture is being thrown into the face of extreme uncertainty and difficulties. How will governments cope? That deal won't solve it. Unless, for one thing, it is due to a period of ten years, which, of course, is always in the confines or foals because it can be adopted in any year, and the government has always warned about its interest in the contract every year. Thus, expected agreements are made today by the State. So this may change. I would therefore have thought that it should be fully based on the adjustment and support period for domestic agriculture and domestic food production, in view of the uncertainty that it contains. It must be done in ways other than this, other than throwing the article into a possible problem of overproduction, price loss, and the need to rely on export with varying results. As for the contracts in general, I'd like to say that when it comes to gardening, I have no comment. That agreement has been successful, consisting of direct payments to the manufacturers of tomatoes, pickles and peppers, and electrical expenditures. He is pleased, and there is no reason but to extend him. He expires for the years. Regarding the milk contract, it can be said that rebellion against the grass roots of cow farmers led to a real continuation of the differences and to choose for themselves 2019 if they are going into the system changes. Why, though, did the sheep's flocks not somehow get the same treatment? Why is it to be run, where much less reason really is for change, into the uncertainty she is supposed to face? But let's just say, handling the milk part of this deal can be considered, so it also expires at the end of the year. But a sheep contract goes out in 2017, and there is no reason to end it now. The government is to be returned with this conclusion and to tell it to converse again with farmers and to reach better conclusions and to be more at peace. Let us not forget that over 40% of sheep farmers engaged in the vote agreement passed. So much dissatisfaction with him. If they don't accept it, they're under threat of worse. The Ramma agreement would also have to be kept because it needs to be more supportive, e.g. pig farms and egg production. Or else she will lie more and less in the land, and I will fear. In my opinion that this case should be settled on these grounds: What is the subject to be done in spring or possibly in fall - there is plenty of time in itself, the bill should not be valid until January 1, 2017, according to itself -- and what is not to be done and what is too poor to be done and beyond that I've gone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u66	V.E.G. President. Finally, it can be said that we are being taken to discuss this matter as the highest point. The marine and agricultural minister of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is now moving, which is a contract of the former highest level. Agri- and marine emissary minister and current prime minister did. It could be seen in the answers to the present level of opposition. A minister is not quite ready to answer for everything in this contract. However, it is to be respected that there was a change of government, change of ministers, and responsion that came in there. But I'm finally saying because it says here that a contract with farmers was signed on February 19th. After two days, it is May 19 and it's been three months since the contract was signed and until this bill of law arrives on the 1st. It's a big bill, kind of a tapeworm, we're supposed to talk to a 1st. and then he goes to the committee I'm in, anyway. Work committee, review. I strongly criticize how late this matter is, and how little time we are meant to go over it. Why do I say that? Due to observed findings, including ... ina prayer conference. One meeting I attended at a Horndrell, where farmers in the Eyjafjörður met. It was a very busy meeting, I guess it was up to 150 people at the meeting, where the leading members of the local community went over the agreement with a great national presentation, both for the sheep and for the milk production, had little to talk about the vegetables, but the solid agreement itself was discussed. I was surprised at how little this discussion was in the meeting itself. But I was not surprised after I had been at the meeting with several farmers who were left like me, where many things were presented. I thought, " Why is this happening? ' Is it because the audience was given a presentation primarily to participate in a vote that began soon thereafter, an electronic vote that has been presented here in 40% of the sheep's prayers in return? It reflects a little what you've heard behind a person's speech, with rings, and so forth, that it clearly does not fully agree with what seems to be the issue of who you are talking about. Congress groups have the policy to invite representatives to the DG for dinner and men to join the ranks. In the United States, we had quite a number of farmers, and we had a very good evening together. It was interesting to listen to young farmers who were accepting the family, the way they were trying to take over. This has been observed and is a factor in human attempting to eliminate defects in the current domestic agreement, especially in the case of dairy teats and dairy cognats. It compares with what you have heard from young farmers who have tried to take over their parents'farms or to buy in the article, how expensive it is, and how much money you owe the bank, and then you have to pay expensive interest from it. I was reminded that at the construction of one of the livestock agreements came to a meeting of the hardware groups and wanted a bit of read us the fistula, as it goes and it happens. There they compared the accounts of Icelandic farmers and then again farmers elsewhere in the Norwegian states we compare ourselves with. There were two factors that were completely out of place in this regard. It was a wedding and, on the other hand, financial expenses. There's a lot of difference. I say this because men think they can put it down a little. For 13. par., or it's probably in 26. . g., explains that at a certain point, milk farmers can request a release at a double price and that the state accepts communication and sale. In my conversations with farmers, this vote was a concern. She was evidently included in the contract at the last moment when the milk farmers rebelled against the plans then discussed, and the local council representatives introduced us to the Group of Congress, with the exception of the milkcane. But it changed into the negotiation process after a lot of farmers rose up and disappeared from it and set out to vote after a certain period of prayer about the drop from milk market. Then I ask the highest. Minister, if he could answer later: What happens, because it is a one - sided vote and the State has nothing to do with it? Farmers will vote, and if farmers say no and want to continue the system, what happens on the part of the state? You see, it is, as I said before, a one-sided vote. I asked a few farmers, whom we'll say they're a little ready for their years, how it's going to be done. Most people claimed that farmers would continue to say no - in fact, the rebellion that was so abandoned and a different system put in here - that farmers would kill it to change it. But this is true of the older farmers I've spoken to, who will take advantage of this provision in the contract now and want the government to release the milk clover and then take up the business to follow what is set in here. I haven't had an answer to this yet. It may well be that when we begin to work on the committee, I get the answer. I don't know. I'm afraid, because of how little time we have, that not everyone who wants to send us a report or a review of this bill and I don't talk about what was discussed earlier. I'm not sure that individual sheeprows across the country will bring in each one, but there's a big difference between where the local farmers are talking to a man about this contract. A respectable president. On page 18. 19 is an overview of the often criticized support. This is the support of the state's agricultural industry. It shows that this year's support for cattle farming is 6.6 billion, the support of sheep farming is 4.9 billion, the support for gardening is nearly 600 million. K. and in the frame contract or the hardware contract as such, in what is stated there is about 670 million. K. A total of 12.8 billion this year. It is expected that 926 billion will require additional expenses. and assumed in the 2017 contribution, which will reach less than 13.8 billion. One way in which men put it is that they are being geared down their support. It drops to 13.6 billion in 2018, but there is no decline in 2019; there are only a few million that it reduces there. Now, let us keep in mind that this force that many face oversee is also behind the support of a number of agricultural activities far and wide around the country. In many areas of the country, especially in sheep farms, which may be the only sector in certain areas, we must deal with it and examine that support. I'm not saying he's completely out of his mind. Business is short. This is how it's done. But I also want to make sure that these things happen, and that they do, to bring good to the consumers in a lower price. We must keep that in mind. When men compare fishing with agriculture, I don't want to be involved because I don't feel that it's comparatorable. On the one hand, it is the fish that comes from the sea that we all own and is able to move out to create currency and then to support sheep or cattle that are the animals that farmers themselves own, to feed their animals and to practice their jobs, and to sell in an internal market. This must be kept in mind when we discuss these figures that many people feel are feeling dizzy, others think they're all right, depending on where you're found about it. The money that comes out there is not large. It has been observed that these may be about 0.6% of the gross domestic product at present and is, of course, reduced due to high levels of GDP. We have to keep that in mind and go through. A respectable president. The 1st. is not a reason to go through isolated articles. But I have to say to my point that there are positive points like that of the milk producers, and in this case of MS, the largest partner will be set up a range of income that I think is right to do, in order to prevent what we have sometimes gotten into our professional company; notes the less manufacturers believe to be pigs on them with prices to those who wish to compete with this largest party in milk production and milk products in Iceland. That's a good thing, even if I make a specific statement about it. I sometimes say that you think about the income limits placed in the electricity sector, which are so endless arguing over the conditions put in there. It is also here, which, of course, is a certain justice case, and the equal here, speaking of this, cannot be critical, the transport balance of getting milk and distributing milk, whether or not there are people on the northeast corner or near the main product or production in the north of Akureyri. That's good, too, in my opinion. These are things we've been talking about. So I'm glad because I've spoken for the transport of the country as a part of keeping the country in its habitat. [[Take it up: And get it on.]] And get her on, even though those who followed the fine government of the last terms to put this up betrayed to raise the amount. But it's nice to visit people who use the transport equation and talk about how it helps in the scattered areas of the country to produce a variety of products that need to be moved back and forth. A respectable president. Finally, I want to reiterate my criticism of the late nature of this bill. It will be very difficult for a professional health committee to win the bill so well during the short time that remains of this council. That is why I have a reputation for supporting the bill or some articles. I'd like to see the reviews and encouragements of most people to send in the envelopes not only to the whole community but to individual societies throughout the country. That is because it depends on whether you speak to sheep in the West, northeast corner, or other parts of the country, whether and how they feel about this agreement. I'd like to agree with what was stated earlier that nothing in this livestock contract can encourage overproduction to demand further transport or subsidies to rise and increase. What happened in the 1991 national agreements to eliminate the export of our agricultural goods in order to pay to other countries is not to come and should not be done. If something in this bill encourages overinvestment and overproduction, I'll tell you in the middle: that's a bad start.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u67	A respectable president. What I noticed may have been one key question. A senator gave up and, in reality, happens in 2019 if farmers vote to continue this process. The objective of the contract is that when it comes to the year 2019, they will be able to see that they are on their way in a good way, i.e. that the contract is good for long periods of time, and as a result, they will be ready to go out of the system they have prepared. You're right about what you're doing. A senator says that no one will take over or something will ever happen if this is done, i.e. ... thatyoumaytakeoffthegoodsin this. What happens, however, is that the government at that time has to take a decision on the matter and determine if the vote required calls for the contract to be said for milk and the system to change. I suppose that's what. A senator is primarily talking about it. But the reason why this is not required is that, of course, people hope that the overall agreements will not be held and that farmers, what to say, will kill them, i.e. ... willgo on going on with the cooling system. There is such a fixed adjustment or an effort to find ways in the contract so that it doesn't have to be. But in the case of that, it is actually a political decision back then. I would have thought it would be normal to meet farmers at that time, dairy towns, cow farms, in an effort to find a mutual solution if this is possible not to have to cancel that part of the contract as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u68	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his answer, which is in fact the answer to the question I asked about the vote and substitution, which is discussed in Article 26. That may be what I was a little worried about with farmers in that article, i.e. on January 1, 2017 - No, December 31, 2018, I'd rather say I had. It's a one-sided vote, and if it goes as I imagine in the meeting I've been living, that farmers will continue to resist the deduction of a payment market, what happens in the state? V.E.G. Says a minister: Yes, there is a government to come. You see, I can't see any of that sort on the part of the State if the government wants to take it off as suggested at the beginning by a government commission that tried to do it in a way that would take away the milk market. But very many farmers around the country stood up against it, and this is how it was presented. Two. Twenty-six. can be found by new indicators relating to this national-institution obligation, which is so that the head of payment could refer to the article request a release on its payment market from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2018. Then it is the Kingdom that relieves it and offers it for sale in a particular way that is discussed. But what I'd like to say, a respectable president, at the end of this and to criticize entirely, is the rules set out on tollaquatans and to raise the price by 60%, in fact, the ones that are being discussed here and that have been put into place. past the ice manufacturers I care about, and why. þm. Össur's Acquirer and others who have said that if this works, the production of ice can leave the country. [[The president calls.]] I don't want to see that coming, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u69	A respectable president. First, I want to admit that all discussions about farm contracts were very foreign to me until recently. I have now tried to put myself in these matters as well as I can. You can put a question mark on the direct support of agriculture and special payments for cattle farming, sheep farming, and gardening, it is absolutely justified to criticize it, but it is quite true of the highest level. Ministers in the past, that all the countries we're going to compare with us have some kind of agricultural agriculture system. It depends on how it is done. All countries in the European Union have e.g. access to agricultural concentrations from the European Union, simply because we have to eat. It is considered part of our basic needs and obligation to try to make sure that food is available. Iceland is in a very specific context. It's hard to grow grain here. The change in weather conditions has, for example, pigs and some fish just died out of here. This is a very oppressive country, and Iceland has never been completely sustainable when it comes to food. It is very important that we try to work out how we want to sustain the Icelandic agriculture and what that means. It never means we can move everything in. Iceland has not been particularly successful in breeding grain, and so forth, along the streets that are more frequent. Sustainable agriculture also has to translate commercially into sustainability. What you can criticize in these contracts is how little the market really gets to enjoy the doubt. We're trying to get out of this system, and I'm glad we're being reduced in terms of milk and trying to put it off. As this saying system has been installed, and I've understood what is best, we're talking about pox, we're growing more and more quickly, and it doesn't have a particularly good effect on consumers in Iceland. Likewise, I support criticism. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon earlier, it is very important that the Icelandic tax money goes to pay off the Icelandic agricultural system will end in the stomach of consumers. And the question is, How do we guarantee it? Is it what's listed in these new livestock deals the right way? I'll put a question mark on it. Part of it is how late the issue is and how late we start discussing it. Today, these last days of the council, and apparently these contracts were signed several months ago, so they could have been established sooner. Overall, much more extensive consultation with these agreements would have been needed. Yes, there are some companies that have been consulted in some way, but mostly these are farmers in consultation with farmers in cooperation with the Department of Agriculture. That is not particularly open - minded. I also criticize that in the section Evaluation of Effects, there is hardly a mention of the effect this will have on Icelandic consumers. If we are talking about the need for Icelandic consumers to create this system, it would be fundamental to have a full chapter on it. Since there is a large chapter on the equality assessment of the bill, it is also good to see how this will affect consumers of Icelandic tax. It has to be handled properly. Like I said, the concept of farm contracts can be criticized. I'm going to leave it between things at the moment and discuss them more materially. I'm glad it's a long-term deal. I think it's better for the Icelandic government, the State and the consumers that we have long-term plans. One major criticism of Iceland is that we can never deal with long - term contracts, nor do we ever make long - term contracts. Perhaps it has something to do with the weather, for this is a short period of weather, which is why it is so important to do this in much more cross - political consultation than has ever been. There is something that can be criticized. Yes, it's great that we have long - term contracts, but there is much greater support for those in general who are not good enough. If this is to be the case, and if our goals are to be achieved, we need some kind of cross - therapeutic approach. As I mentioned earlier, the level of the eating system in milk is being reduced. I have to say, this saying system was probably a huge mistake at first, but I don't see better than we really are going back to a rather old-fashioned system. This bill gave me a presentation from both of them from the Supreme Court. Agricultural minister and then local members of the Bavory League. What I don't understand is just why the market doesn't get the benefit of the doubt again. Why does a market manager get to collect milk too, being at the market making dairy products, such as cheese, scurry, and yogurt? Isn't this a violation of a proper competition? Would it not be better to offer milk in some way? They could, for example. Its producers are offered in the ice milk and so on. The market share of the Galasam salad has been criticized. Just because of this marketing situation in the new world, this market is very difficult to pick up. There is, in fact, one positive thing, that dairy products are obliged to sell milk to other producers for postproduction. The amount may be picked up to 5% of the milk received by the product station. If the system wasn't going to change, I'd like to see this figure rise considerably, up to 50%, because it's about whether we're gonna have free markets when it comes to anything other than agricultural products. If the answer is yes, it needs to be reasoned. I consider great innovation possible on the Icelandic market, both export and within the country. That's something we've seen in the past few years. I'd love to hear the highest opinion. Therefore, agrienvironment schemes will determine whether the transparent milk pathway would actually be better off. Here it is suggested that milk be added to the manufacturer's milk prices and that the milk products be sold as a whole. To me, this is rather an old - fashioned arrangement, and I would rather see a transparent auction. There is a lot of science when it comes to such auctions, so it is quite possible to consider the possibility. As far as I'm concerned, that possibility hasn't even been thought of. It is very special that the layer of milk is also the market manager when it comes to producing milk. There's something we need to look into. I'm also happy with the Icelandic goat, and I'm glad to see that she's finally in the livestock deal because Iceland's goat stock is very old, but also very sick. The same can be said of the forest prayer. I also seem to see a certain change of viewpoint when it comes to organic farming and specific quality control. We are competitive and prefer to compete with other nations in some way, no matter what the situation may be. Organic production is more healthy for society and that we have certain consumers' protection in mind when we make these contracts. In addition, quality control needs to be directed to an animal tour. I hope that some of the billions of people in the agricultural contract are going to be able to improve their facilities, especially in pigs and fish farms, simply because the situation there is not good enough, as appeared earlier in the winter. I'm glad there's something new I'm looking for, especially if there's strength for new farming in Icelandic agriculture. We also need to look at this in a much larger context. It says that the number of women in six years was reduced by about 100. This is important for a community that is distributed and transported to the extent that transportation is good. We need to look at our transport system and our transportation network as a basis for our ability to carry out powerful agriculture in Iceland. Wherever you come in Iceland, you can hear that transportation is a problem. Of course, women and men who are trying to raise a family want to be safe on the roads, and it's not the case at the moment, especially in western Iceland and also in the eastern part of the country. There are roads below all the caves. I have driven better roads in underdeveloped countries to the mountains, and it is very sad to see how the road system has collapsed. I need you to watch all this. It does not mean to place strong support on young farmers, but it does not mean that, first of all, people want to go out on these things and that their families need to have a better road system. This is the absolutely essential step for children to attend school. This is essential for the safe driving between towns. You have to get it into the overall picture when you're looking at this, that the road system needs to be improved. The same goes for the Food Land of Iceland. It's great that there is a campaign for marketing with Icelandic food. However, we also need some Icelandic food to export. The question has been asked how we distinguish the support that goes into Icelandic stomachs or stomachs abroad, how we create a strengthening system that distinguishes it. Can we do that on the EEA Convention? That's a question, too. As is the case today, some miracle is needed if we are going to expand the share of the Icelandic agricultural products for some major project. How wonderful it is to be introduced to Icelandic foods abroad! Similarly, I would like to see the highest. Agricultural minister puts it in place on an international scale that would have special markings, have a European quality stamp that would only produce slidings in Iceland, and only call them sliding if produced in Iceland. I think it's a big interest if we're going to go into this competition because we're going to have a scurry, like the footprint, the parmaskin, or the serranoskin, one of the things that is dependent on it, or to be dependent on being made up of domestic materials, as well as an historically speaking Icelandic product. If we are going to go out in this regard, it is not enough to have just one effort project on commercial food markets, of course, that we need to look at it in a much larger context, especially if we can produce enough for foreign markets and whether it will be affected by Icelandic consumers. My point is that I miss seeing a better report on the impact of the domestic agreements on Icelandic consumers. It's never too late to add, so I hope that it will be revealed by further coverage of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u70	A respectable president. I have something to do with this bill. I'm gonna slide through it a little bit. I'd like to state that some of the changes you're about to make might improve. I think this question is that if we get out of the saying system, and I don't feel that it's like some people are afraid that the system is actually going to be a manufacturing source if we leave the saying system and we could get into over-production. I'm gonna let myself believe in the market that it's not gonna happen. I understand, though, and this must be one of the things that may be most widely considered on the job committee, since this is a big change. I think it's an improvement, I'm gonna let myself believe it, but I understand the worry of people because we've been overproducted, even ruined. There are famous pictures of the tomatoes and other things, although the news may have been somewhat exaggerated, in some cases we were simply sending food out from the country with the exports to relieve excess supplies. Of course, that is not good. I don't see in the bill, I don't have a thing to say, that if a farmer or someone becomes an animal, or to treat animals badly, the person accepts the government's payment, that there is a warrant to keep or to drop them. This is a case that has been discussed here, and I'm sure I'm in the animal passage bill, whether it was the local community that made comments on it and believed that such a warrant would be more in the agricultural law. I kind of expected this to come into the livestock Act. I don't see it, but it's not the end of the shot that it's out there somewhere. In an explanation of 35 C.E. says it is authorized to cancel bone pay if the manufacturer is not subject to requirements on a 1 mg basis. Section 60. to provide information on products, prices and commerce. I think it's very important that the committee take this into consideration, for I find it only natural that it is possible to take action if the person who accepts direct pay from the state does not stand in the suit and treats animals badly, as a result, although, hopefully, they are few. So that's one thing. Besides, I don't see any ideas about changing how we distributed tollotes that were actually approved just a year ago. In the bright future, we have had disagreements about the possibility of an assignment. We would have preferred either the methods of coining, some combination, or even the distributions based on some of the previous distributions, that can be mixed. That's not what I see. And it seems as if they were not supposed to cancel the Lactate's release from competitive law. I feel that this is a concern, although it seems to be about making some changes. It might even be said that it would be normal to have some kind of monopoly, equation, and distribution system because, for example, attendance is very expensive. Milk and some form of what to say, a monopolitan company that handled it, but not that there is one person who in this case is being given that great power, which we have seen to have been abused through the years, unfortunately. I think it's important that more producers are on the market and that's variety. The price may be higher, but I think it's worth a lot for consumers to have to pay a little higher if it means that we don't have a soloist on a market that can actually stop new producers from getting their products on the market, getting them ready for the market, because that's a problem. Regarding the negotiations and how they came to them, it has been criticized that there has been a lack of consultation. It is stated that during the process, ministers presented the agreement with various stakeholders. I would've liked to see a lot more access to the contracts from the beginning and taxpayers, but it's the upcoming Ministry of finance to be on that watch, and even the arrival of more parties because it's getting into so much. Take, for example, the bait. The land of bait is often owned by a state or by a community. Don't they have something to say? I hope next time we're going to work like this, we'll have learned that as many people get involved, the better the results will be. At least I'm gonna let me believe it. I also feel that environmental issues could be stronger. It is true that extra donations for organic farming are to be increased, but there is very little, in fact, very little. In other lands, there is a real trend toward growth, such as in Denmark and other countries, and there is progress in this. I realize that in some respects organic production in Iceland can be more difficult and expensive, especially with regard to the use of creams that may be our primary limitations. We were looking at matters in a group under agrienvironmental and marine economists, where we were discussing whether we were stricter standards here, but in general, the European Union took a stand for Jehovah's Witnesses. I don't dare say it, but it's worth looking at. I think we could be more ambitious in this regard, actually much more ambitious. Then I come into what I think is the main problem of this bill. I find it most conservative in that we look primarily at very few things. It is sheep culture, milk production, cattle farming, perhaps some part of it, and warmth. Yes, the goat is inside, and something we're talking about organic farming and farming, but I would have liked to see a much larger leap in the direction of farmers producing what they want to produce and getting paid for it. I wonder, for example. to me a potato grow that's got a lot of trouble. If we've decided that it's normal for us to strengthen agriculture, why don't we further strengthen potato farming? Why would you be more supportive if I had a glass of milk than if I had potatoes? Somehow we'll settle food. One form of barley that has gone well and more in that way. It could have gone much further in this regard. I'd like to introduce myself to the fact that I have the impression that our policy in agriculture should only be a regional policy, because our geographic policy somehow is everywhere and vague and hardly exist. But all of this must be left hand in hand. If the number of farms decreases, this is likely to some extent because there is less service in neighboring areas or the lack of transportation or network connection that is not good, and so on. We see farmers are getting old. We do not get the recruitment we wanted in these articles, so something is not okay. I would have thought that increasing freedom to produce what is in my mind and what is demand on the market would be a step in the right direction. It's supposed to increase customs, I don't like it, on individual products, it was cheeses if I remember correctly. The magma is to be increased because it has not kept up with GDP. I have to say, and it's my opinion that I don't regret to support Icelandic agriculture, and I think we'll always have to put a lot of money to support food production in Iceland. I don't know if it can ever be self-sustained. Then it is important that we get as much money as we can and make good use of it, but at the same time, I feel it is impossible to have as much protection as we have in Iceland. I don't understand, why aren't cheeses just moved in, and consumers can buy the cheese they want to eat? This is the way it works to protect Icelandic production. The Icelandic cheeses that are so good that consumers choose them will remain on the market. You do not get tired of pointing to the model that is when customs of vegetables or tomatoes and pickles were dropped, bone pay was replaced, and Icelandic consumers showed that they chose Icelandic production. But in 2016 you can't accept that cheeses, delicious cheeses made elsewhere, and in many cases they're not even produced in Iceland, they're worth it in this way, and tolls are about to be placed on them. So I say like a dog. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who earlier said that he remembered while the blood flows in his veins fight certain changes in the bill, I'm going to underline those words unless I'm going to force myself to make customs of the cheeses, these high customs, these customs, they're not going to be put on. I don't believe that the Independence Party in particular will sit here in votes and votes against a change form that we're going to submit if that happens, unless they're all in the bathroom or somewhere else. The case will now be addressed to the committee. I hope there's plenty of time for discussion because it's a big deal and you don't see everything going on. There's an organization out there that knows it back and forth, and you really trust to get good points and important tips from them. So it is important not to be too brief. No doubt there will be a strong, lively discussion when it comes to the matter. Um, um, but I'm gonna make this work for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u71	A respectable president. I hope this is going to be an up-to-date counter, not so traditional. Hv. A senator had a very good question and a question that I know will be answered in terms of the council, of course. But I'd like to take away all the doubt about two, three things. Hv. For example, a senator used potatoes. It is opened up in the agricultural section of the Treaty that a food agency can arrange for a variety of items, such as broiling, potatoes, or something like that - that is, to increase flexibility there. Then it was like a sledgehammer. A senator would have some doubt as to how this was being carried out, who had been on a contract committee and another, of course the Ministry of finance was in the government commission because tax issues and such were spoken of. That's the end of the line because of the problem. A senator mentioned an expensive well - being, but it is a very important subject, even though it is true that it is not spoken specifically of in this contract. It is important, however, that we look for ways to handle animal abuse, no matter where it is and how it happens. The best way to do so has been examined over the years. However, before it can really be linked to payment, it needs to be defined or defined as what is taking place, the protocol, etc. It just may not have been done what I know best. But I think there's a very good way to go. A senator uses the word "charm " to identify animals and animals as being ill. Of course, it must be very logical and obvious that the rules and laws are being violated, the actions are in that way, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u72	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the answers. It is always good when a minister sits in the hall and jumps to answer the questions of members of Congress. I know how to respect that. It's good to hear about the potatoes, I'm a special fan of potatoes, and I'd hate to hear about that if my potato farm was to go off. I hear a lot of concern from some of my acquaintances who are in that sector. In the case of an expensive well-being, it's true that a minister says, braking payment would be a great deal of resources, and if that were to be done, he would have to be absolutely clear about the rules. But now we know that in some cases a food clinic has simply closed down, e.g. if you are breast-feeding. Courts have taken place in terms of sheep raising, where veterinary doctors and MAST representatives are repeatedly present, and their vast energy may go to a small number of people, who then stain everyone else because these are still very few members. I think it would be a working force to put this into the law, as mentioned in a professional committee, when this was taken out of the animal travel law and it was spoken of as being more in the agricultural laws, but of course it would be a problem and it would always be an emergency. However, there is a agreement between farmers and the State and the State that meets its obligations and pays off the production or practices of farmers, and farmers must likewise meet their requirements. Animal choice laws should be the basis for how far we can go and when we are talking about serious offenses against animals.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u73	V.E.G. President. I noticed why. A senator spoke of a super-high patron cell and thought about asking her: What do you mean? There are, for example. protection measures on agrienvironment schemes in the European Union, both amplitude and prices. On the basis of what does the senator think guardians are so high up here in Iceland? Second off, what? A senator named the vegetables as a special point of distribution to the extent toll when customs were dropped. In fact, the reduced vegetables in their time, which did not result in a threat to consumers only in small ways, have resulted in the setting of vegetarian farmers, if I may sludge, by permission of the president, because of those who produce tomatoes, pickles, and paprice are useful to that toll shift. They benefit from the competition. But it has not contributed to the increase in vegetables production in Iceland, i.e. increasing the choice of Icelandic vegetables. That's why I'd like to ask. A senator is more likely to have benefited from the use of consumers in terms of reduced tolls on vegetables, which have become available to consumers only in a small way, as well as to increase the range of vegetables produced in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u74	A respectable president. We know customs protection in Iceland is very high. We are not members of the European Union and we are together with Norway, and indeed Switzerland was no doubt part of that group, among the countries that have the highest tolls. I don't always feel like we have to aim for something else, like a cot. A senator says. I watch Icelandic consumers and how much money Icelandic families pay for the goods. Then I don't care if Turkey or any other country has some tollamur, that's just a detail. We have a very high toll, which makes the price here higher. We do this to protect domestic agriculture, and we can just make a decision and say, "Hey, we're going to lower this toll by 50% because we want to lower the prices to consumers and we want to increase competition. Actually, I don't really care what customs are in Japan. I'm thinking of Icelandic consumers primarily. It is my personal opinion that the customs here are too high and that would improve if we were to lower them, I don't talk about customs on cheese, because I don't think there will ever be any competition outside of fresher than milk and yogurt. We are only far from other countries when we enjoy a certain distance and protection in this regard. I'll fight for this ejaculated toll that is now to be put on cheese, don't go through. I wouldn't like that. I think Icelandic garden farmers are doing a great job, producing very good products. I remember a time before bone payment was paid, and the customs were still around the people that paprika was actually a luxury product. I just didn't buy a paprika, she was such an animal. I have no price in front of me, but I'm going to allow myself to insist that the price of these lips is not higher than it was when the customs were. I think this decision to reduce customs was good for consumers. On the other hand, it is a political decision to place more money and increase it. [[The president calls.]] I would back that up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u75	V.E.G. President. Somehow I think why. A senator has misunderstood what I said earlier because when I asked, "For what? " I was referring to a reference to the European Union itself because it may not be a good thing to control the risk of one - sided toll. For that, you can't get anything, i.e. The land as such. I agree with that. A senator, of course, would like to have a proper transport of cheese, that is not the case, but the fear and toll changes that have been done on both agricultural products and other products have not been paid to consumers. As for vegan farmers, I take my heart to it. A senator's reputation is exemplary. Still, I wanted to be happy with the senator that the customs change has not increased the variety of production in the country. If customs change doesn't reduce prices - they haven't reduced the product prices on other vegetables but under what is normal - and you don't increase the variety of production, you have to ask: Why are we doing this? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u76	A respectable president. No, we may not agree completely, me and what. Senator, on this matter. Although I can completely agree with the forward movement in many matters, we are not at all at all in this regard. The reason we're in a better future is that it can serve Iceland's interests to walk in the European Union is exactly because we are part of the customs union it is. And the reason many people don't want to leave is because they want to protect the Icelandic agriculture and worry that it wouldn't be good for Icelandic agriculture if we went into this customs union. I'm not suggesting that we cancel customs one, two and three of all goods and I've suggested that we begin, for example. should be canceled from products not produced in Iceland. They would not be in direct competition with Icelandic production. I don't think it's dangerous to go to the surgery to lower, e.g. To taste for cheese about half, to take this in one step and watch and see what happens. I don't think it would be very serious, though the amount of cheese produced today would be reduced because it would likely stop producing the less popular cheese that would be replaced by others. I think even by reducing tolls on cheese and by increasing the import time we eat more cheese. If I don't get the good Spanish cheese I want or I don't have time to buy it because it's so expensive, I don't go straight to my mushroom cheese. Then I just don't buy any cheese. It could simply increase the consumption of cheeses if we were to import cheeses and increase the selection. There would also be more survival for the producers here that they would produce the cheeses that consumers really want to eat.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u77	Madam President. We'll discuss the existing livestock deal, change the livestock. After reviewing the agreements below, I am further strengthened by the belief that the agreement cannot be accepted unchanged. They are defective in my opinion that they need to be revised, although they may vary according to the agreements involved. Sheep agreements have shown that they are still extremely critical of them. For negotiations involving milk production, the percentage of the contract has actually been suspended for two years and the detoxification system in milk production and farmers have the potential in 2019, along with the first revision of the contract, to vote for the removal of the milking system in milk production. It was originally intended to be done, but because of much criticism and neglect because of its consequences, it had to be delayed by two years. In fact, if farmers want to cash in, they can take advantage of it, and the government will cash out the milk clover for a certain price and then offer to sell at the same price. It is true that newcomers have a chance to buy, but then there is no question that milk custodians are buying and selling. It can be said that this large eating process has a defect, but it also includes a specific production control. It is important that overproduction is not taken into overproduction that will take place on all producers if there is too much exposure to it. This reduces the price to the manufacturer that corresponds, although humans are working now to increase the marketing of crops abroad, but no one is aware of what will happen in such areas. This is especially true of the sheep part of the contract. I'll say for my share if I take a little bit out of parentheses and discuss the sheepfold in particular that we senators have been contacted by the presidents of the sheep farmers, e.g. of the West and of the Beaches, who have expressed great concern that, as the agreements deal, they take a very hard measure in the peripheral areas of sheep farms and push farms on them because they are moving toward a great decrease in their direct payment to their farms at the time ahead. It's said that the medium, e.g. In Stranda County, bone pay or support up to 1 million a year. It's a huge impairment, and it's riding all the farm funds. It has been explained that the recent growth in sheep'flocks, where money has been raised to buy the article, riding, and all the grounds are smiling at the material, financial commitments, and so forth, as they do not quickly reduce bone pay for the next ten years. The areas that are large in sheep farms, the whole of the West, the North Philly Farm and other areas mentioned, the Huns water management and the Thomson Countys, are unable to tolerate so much impairment. There is no review after two years, that is merely an extension of this stock to an even greater debt, right now people look to the future and whether it will continue as compared to the fact that this agreement will take on effect. So I take my heart to the words of farmers who speak for sheep in these peripheral areas say that they should not attempt to achieve better contracts and wait until 2023 by setting up contracts and looking forward to how the market campaign for products works, they are trying to market lamb abroad, see what comes out of it, but don't be directly linked to this marketing campaign in the market agreements. This is dangerous because these treaties are also regional policy, and they are about to look at the weakest areas where sheep grow. This is so great a share, the livestock contract, and the sheep part, because it is possible to house sheep in these areas and survive because many of the areas offer no chance of earning other income along sheep's farms. I think the agreements, whether we talk about the milk part or the sheep part, contribute to a great sense of compression. In this series of articles, the support given to fewer parties is still being made to improve compression. The roof would still have to be below where the government's support ends. Sheep farmers have discussed that in these contracts there is an incentive for this freedom in such ways that sheep breed into other areas, perhaps in areas that have been powerful in milk production, such as the South. In addition, the sheep part of its habitat, which contracts them in areas peripheral and does not tolerate the dramatic decrease in the amount of bone payment ahead. It is certainly not good if we look at the environmental issues and baits of the southern regions, the lakes, and the fragile areas of vegetation that are not supposed to be used. However, other areas that are good for breeding are not new. It has also been noted that in the contract it is intended to provide investment support for sheep raising in return, but there is no definition of these areas, e.g. in Ísafjörður districts, which are very uncomfortable from contracts for sheep farming. It is not yet known whether the county of Iceland is defined as a weak area in which sheep grow and if there is any support. Besides this, this support is only a drop in the ocean relative to the decline that will occur because bone payment is severely impaired in the next ten years, by up to 20%. The sheep in those areas are totally shaken. I don't think it's a good civil policy, in fact, a hostile local policy, which is evident in the part under sheep's flocks in this contract. I don't understand any of the candidates, who are primarily responsible for these contracts, to intend to run this contract through as he is aware of the type of structural disorder that may follow. Sheep cannot be returned to people in the areas that are least affected if they decide to live because there is no obvious security or operating ground for living based on the limitations that lie ahead. It is not easy to go back in time, calling out to those who would have, in effect, wanted to continue living. I think it's a huge responsibility for the government to continue running this contract as it is available. It may also be criticized that environmental factors are not addressed even more closely in the contract, which would certainly have been a great opportunity to do so. Then will I look to the thing which shall be discussed, and shall be related to this matter which is toll toward the European Union. The production of food within the country is of utmost importance. Men who have criticized a protector often forget the context that there is a great deal of environment in which to produce as much produce as possible at home, even when there is support, because agricultural products are thoroughly polluted by continents. I feel that the discussion, whether within the council or outside, has led to a long - distance transfer of agricultural products. Instead, agrienvironmental products that can be produced in this country should be produced, although support is needed. They should be supportive of the production as possible. I think we need to look at all of this in a ▪ haemoglobinal, how reasonable is it that us Icelanders support their production within the country and how it uses consumers in the future. It is often forgotten that the support of the long-term agricultural equipment should be directly linked to consumers within the country; they should be aware of its signals in product prices. But it's totally turned off that course with these contracts, by aim for overproduction and export. I don't think Icelandic consumers and Icelandic taxpayers are in favor of paying off Icelandic agricultural products to consumers abroad, because it hasn't been done yet and shouldn't be that way. In order to achieve support and support in support of Icelandic agriculture, we need to be directly involved with the benefit of European consumers in this context and the environmental policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u78	A respectable president. I thought it would take a long time for my life that it wouldn't be my destiny to deal with the market agreements, but since I've been elected to sit on the council, I can't say anything or let myself go through the government's spending, which is 0.6% of domestic product, and maybe everything goes down 2% of the budgets. There's all the support for one industry, agriculture, and the other are consumers. I can't see that consumers have ever been called in on this contract, i.e. This industry is being taken under the government's protection and is really only stately. At a meeting of the Bjords of the Independence Party, a meeting was referred to in 1942 when improvements were made in various agricultural productions. These were called animal - born measures. In 1942 it may not be that big, but if you turn the year in 1924, it's a small year because I believe that in that year the production of agriculture has lost because of the production in the fishing industry and that agriculture has, in fact, been under attack for all the streets since then. I can trace it for a long time, but my time won't allow it, and maybe it's a special topic in a special discussion, since support for agriculture seems to be an eternity. I wondered what the share of agricultural production in national production is. In view of the matter, it seems to me that there is quite some of the direct payment of this article, except for a little bit of peripheral articles, pig culture, bird culture, and vegetable culture. If this is a direct support and does not matter, then this case needs to be reviewed in a practical way. There's been a competition in this article. This article is completely out of competition. In fact, there is one major company in the milk industry, and the United Nations has talked over the fact that competitive laws should apply there as elsewhere. I completely agree with that. Likewise, there is reason to ask. paritaprevir St Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir was before: Is the industry self-sustained? I think it's right to ask that professional worker committee for that question in their discussion. One of the things that are self-sustaining in this country. Do these outright payments apply to any way that sheep eat up the land? Does it interfere with other objectives of land healing and construction? Another question that I feel is a reason to ask about support in the country. At some meeting I was sitting there, it was found that when this model of agricultural production began, there were 1,700 milk manufacturers in the country, now there are about 1,700 milk producers in the country. 700. This seems strongly to me that at some point since 1990, the arrangement did not lead to national support, much rather than to integration in milk production. True, it is a practical option, but it will go against some of the goals that humans have set out in these areas. The question about sheep farming is much bigger and more broad, since the results of this article are just terrible, according to the numbers I have used in recent years. After paying variable financial costs and financial expenses, the article has about the amount of money spent on the bone. That's all. When those in the article now quit, it really doesn't matter. Many have been identified with the fact that innovation in this article is almost hopeless. There is no way to buy into that article. It was mentioned earlier that what was left between life and living was a financial cost and a greeting. In fact, a wedding should be unnecessary because the value of bone pay is directly available on this quota, and there is little more to it, so it doesn't matter. There's another point to consider here that's an export. I am, in effect, shocked because over the last 90 to 100 years, there have been countless attempts to export sheep and agricultural products, and nothing gone, exactly nothing. When a contract on Iceland's membership was made that EFTA was one of the experiments, and I can't remember whether it was 500 or 1,000 tons of lamb meat that went along with that contract of industrial free goods to pass the deal through. I remember Norway was a counterweight at those purchases. These regulations went their course. The export of agricultural products and the export of sheep to the United States is little other than development aid to the wealthy Americans. I just don't see why people who buy food don't make money. It may be possible to strengthen the wealthy Americans to buy food in Iceland, i.e. sell them their meat here in restaurants, but there's one of them fighting, if we can have a point of action, trying to sell tourists, they're 1,500 thousand now, more lamb in restaurants. I thought restaurants themselves made arrangements to offer their guests attractive food. This is 1.5 million tourists. By counting every tourist 200 to 300 grams [300 g] of sheep per day, this may take out 600,900 tons per year, but over the years it has also been a reduction in lamb trade, so that what has happened in recent years in domestic sales has not been reached by tourists, since one would have felt that a restaurant was offering special rights. It's much better for tourists to be snooping around in whale meat, which is a specialist product and it would be nice to sell as much in a tourist country as possible, especially Americans, but it's now another story. So I strongly refer to the employment board as this issue does not result in the failure of the economic and commercial committee, which is the natural setting of this issue, to see if these attempts to export agrienvironmental products have not been completed. It has been discussed that customs on exported agricultural products should be as high as possible to protect the article. That's exactly what it is, customs here in foreign agricultural products have been designed to protect the article and prevent Icelandic consumers from enjoying the products of other countries. If we used customs in this way in other areas of employment, we will greatly impair our standard of living. Of course, we cut customs into the standard of living. Tolar always reduces quality of life, and it doesn't matter whether the data board uses tolls or not. At 62rd. discusses the increase in amplitude of various products and makes me especially think about skimmed powder, since skimmed powder is a substance in two products that I'm an elephant in, i.e. ice, actually cream ice cream, but it may be possible to use in dairy ice cream, as well as chocolate. It's an industrial substance, and I'm just saying, these are the only ingredients in industrial products that seem to have customs and that's what I think really dangerous. If this is going to be fully effective, and these sectorals cannot get skirmish powder, milk powder, and cream powder on a global market, these jobs have to flee. You can install chocolate and ice factories in other countries, Iceland isn't the only thing to do. So once again, I ask a professional committee to consider whether or not all the main objectives of industrial and industrial development in this country are in violation. I'm going to take my case short, a respectable president, but I'm going to mention what was once said to me when I was at school. It was then said that there were six times as much crops per acres of potatoes in Poland as there were potatoes in Poland at 85% lower prices than in Iceland. Then I'll say, "Why do we grow potatoes in Iceland?" This is exactly what it's all about, Iceland has some competitiveness in industry in production, and Poland has its competitive superiority. Europe is competitive over Iceland and Iceland has competitive superiority in other areas. Out there, there's a foreign trade. The journey that has gone here for 70 years, perhaps close to 100, has not returned improved farming standards. She hasn't paid to stay in the countryside. A report by the 1924 colony is expected to increase by two newcomers per county each year for the next 50 years so that farms in the country will be nearly 7,55,000 in 1975. I don't know how many farms there are today, they're probably somewhere and over 3,000, so most of what has been done on agriculture in recent years has not really reached the target. I have sometimes wondered if similar payments would be used to further, e.g. If you make pants in the country, pants are always bridges, you can't walk without pants, what price on pants, if you weren't just pretty competitive in pants. Why is agricultural production taken out by itself rather than by bus production?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u79	It's because you don't eat your pants.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u80	It may well be. Gunnarsson I'm not gonna worry about that, but I've also asked, given all the loyalty to this Icelandic agricultural product, why all foreigners aren't dead that can't enjoy this Icelandic product. A respectable president. I'm not going to go further on my case for a while, and I expect it to happen. The job committee takes into account my comments and the questions I have asked here. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. I'd like to ask about the change to be made, i.e. cancel the greeting system or payment mark. You hear concern that this can lead to overproduction or overproduction. I can totally see the evidence that we don't have a greeting system, that people don't have to buy in the article. It is a system we use when we have a limited resource, such as in fishing waters where people will have to buy goodbye if they are going to catch fish. But when we produce milk and sheep, is the limited resource needed to use access control, or can we trust the market, the manufacturer's intelligence, to control the production so that we are not going to produce too much? If this happens, the price will just drop and the consumption may increase. I'm interested in hearing what's wrong. A senator thinks, whether he's worried about it. I hear people are really worried about this and they'll deal with it. I want to believe that this is the right step because it's also supposed to be paying, for example, some payment on beef production that has not been available. But I may not worry about beef because as prosperity increases, there seems to be an endless demand for beef. But count 'em why. A senator here for a mountain of sheep and milk to be thrown into tons if we take off the greeting system we know today?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u82	A respectable president. I'm not worried about the meat mountains and the milk mountains. I'm not worried that the producers are going to make this for mountains and forts. It happens very simply, so that the manufacturer produces too much and the prices fall, expected to adjust the production at some point. It's just like in other productions that the state has no choice of production, no product production, and no service. It just happens with the price and quantity of price agreed upon by buyers and sellers. This 75-year-old system, if the day of birth is correct, 1942, is just out of the blue. That people who want to start farming have to buy out in the article - Wait, what are we talking about? If people want to buy out the article, why can't they just start something else or start something else? I certainly realize that the country's urban development is developing in a surmounting way that 70-80% of the nation lives here in the southwestern country. Depending on effective measures, this may result in the spread of the land. It will not always be with this presumptuous emphasis on agricultural production as if it were supposed to solve something. In recent years, agricultural production has not solved any of the social problems in this country. I pointed to it here in my speech. The milk producers have grown dramatically, and it has not improved edification issues. A respectable president. I hope I kept my deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u83	A respectable president. I spoke here about my concern that there should be a huge toll on cheese. A senator pointed out that tolls on skim and milk powder are also to be increased, which is not good at all. I was just so upset about the cheese that I didn't notice. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether we in a short future will not be able to rely on him, for of course we will not accept the fact that there is a great increase in customs on cheese. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson wondered earlier that there were customs in all other countries, he asked what we were aiming for; if we had to negotiate with other nations, we would have to get something in return, some tollocate. But the way I see it, we can decide to turn down customs without getting anything against it, i.e. can carry out a horse or an alternative if it results in reducing prices to consumers and increasing competition, there is no need to compromise mutual agreements. In this tiny country, we live in a very small way, with a lot of protection, while with the European Union on the other hand, a market of 550 million people, with no toll on these products. I don't think it's fair that we're in this position. I want to hear what you're doing. A senator says of the planned rise - these are amplitudes, looks to me, on this delicate product, on cheese and skimmed powder - and whether it will not join us in preventing these changes in the agricultural law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u84	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. People here are always thanking for questions and answers. I'm just gonna say that I think that any nation that trades on imported goods in their land is the first and last to lose the standard of living for its citizens. The fact that customs are in other countries has nothing to do with it. There's something called relative superiority in production. If one country has a relative superiority, then there is another relative superiority in other areas. We don't change it with customs. It's just a matter of living, that's all. Regarding this amplitude considered, I believe for obvious reasons, which I referred to in my talk about, for example, industrial raw materials and the chocolate industry, we are primarily downplaying these sectors. So if I'm with you or with you? The job committee does its job - it's like when I think about farming, I don't have much help, and my support is even less supportive. This does not change the fact that what has been happening here in the past 70 years has not been improved in the country. I say again, let them begin to think something new in this matter. So I finish this discussion of bone pay or this new chapter in the domestic contract: The contract covers 12 years. I'm not sure we're all sitting here for 12 years, and we're tying the council for 12 years. Is that legal normal? I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u85	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the livestock and more. It has been very interesting to observe the discussions today and to see that it seems to anyone who has addressed and prepared, or quite obvious, that a lot of work will be waiting for members of Congress. A professional health committee. Of course, the differences in viewpoints may be explained because of the enormous importance and wide nature of the case, perhaps also perhaps of what has been pointed out in the discussion that there has really been no personal political agreements. It is a matter of concern because, as I said, this is a huge and important matter, which includes the domestic agriculture of the provision of sustainable society, which is self-satisfactory to as much as possible, including safe food security to those living in Iceland. At the same time, of course, farming is an important business, so it is important that those serving in this article enjoy a good and better standard of living. All of this must somehow go together, and certainly, sometimes it can be reversed. I want to agree with those who have spoken today and have been concerned that changes in the government's support of farmers can lead to overproduction, thus causing a fall in crops. I'd like to put this point in context of the environmental principle and in close proximity to the point that there is a connection between the fast and the growing numbers of sheep and the condition of the bait. Of course, it's important to be careful. There's something else I'm also worried about in a environmental way. It may be related to induction of increased production. V.E.G. That is exactly what one minister noted in his speech, about the increase in the production of high - quality products. In comments with the bill on page 18. 14 Indeed it is: Iceland's Metland ◯ An effort will be made to launch Icelandic food. Of course, we would like this to be the case with the highest quality production. But I have a little bit of concern that what is in the air and may be read out of the bill may be an increased export of Icelandic agrienvironmental products, and it has to do with the incentive again for growth that I mentioned earlier. I think it's important that we be consistent. If we are serious about achieving a successful climate, and if we want to keep up with the Paris meeting, we can not just talk about it as some isolated phenomenon that we need to deal with but must be seen in government policy. That's where we come to the place. It is important in the environment that we in Iceland are as sustainable as possible about food and the limits of the carbon track when it comes to the import of food. We often talk about it as important as it's environmentally important to eat the floor, or to eat what grows closer to us, but this also works the other way. We also need to limit the eco-efficiency when it comes to exporting. I feel that I must maintain it, to be a member of a movement that has environmental issues that are part of their main concern, I must maintain this view when we speak or discuss them as agricultural practices in Iceland is created. It's really because of this big case that I'm coming up here in my speech. I think it's absolutely important that we keep them on the environmental viewpoints and we have to be careful about making things snap together. Of course, we're talking about the quietness of farmers. But we also need to think about how this all turns into the vast environmental context, so that it can be maintained. I'd like to mention one thing that I find tremendously positive about these agricultural products, their presentation, in a section on the assessment of the impact of the bill, that follows the unique equality assessment of the bill. I think it's quite exemplary, actually important in this business that has, I think I can allow myself to say it, be chivalrous in the sense that a farmer is usually, both in language and also in praxize, a man while a farmer may have been more regarded as a housewife than not a farmer in himself, though on all or most of his modern estates both sexting and family business alike. That is why I feel that the work that has been done to see how the State's support has taken place on men and women. However, it is attributed to comments with the bill that the Ministry of Employment and Development in 2012/2014 set up an analysis of agricultural contracts and that the project was part of a sensory economy. It made it very clear that men are more than a part of the country's holding bone hooks while the proportion of women has been very low and that these were looked forward to the analysis of the farm agreement and that this is being done with the contract and that it is being made of the change for married couples or roommates who meet together to request payment according to the exchange of the contract. For example, when discussing these big and big issues, some may feel that these are minor and trivial details. But to me, this is extremely important. If we are to be serious in wanting to be an article that can flourish in the future, we need to consider the gender issues and make needed changes so that women and men can do the job and have equal circumstances when it comes to being a farmer. Since my voice is going to betray me, and the passing of time is only a matter of time, I finally want to say that I feel that the important thing that happened earlier today is important. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's statement that there is no disagreement on all aspects of the domestic agreement, although today's debate is focused mainly on the issues of disagreement. That's how they often want to be. For example, I don't think it's much if there's any disagreement about what lies to the garden agreements. However, it is also evident that pig farmers and a great deal of sheep farmers disagree with the agreement. The bill as it stands is not expected to go into effect until January 1, 2017. So there is a space and a good time to change and to make up for the most disagreeable things. In fact, it might even be possible to divide the final pay on the matter into a smaller phase, since it is first taken away at the council to agree with what is more comfortable but to continue working on the more disagreeable. I want at the end of my speech to point it to what. In her work, the employment committee examined whether it is a work system that could push us forward so that, in time, we will have farms that are in vast abundance, because I think it's important Icelandic agriculture and local farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u86	President. It's not a coincidence that the names of two professions are in the Ministry, the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Department. This is because these have been working for years and decades, especially two political groups who have applied themselves to caring for the particular interests of these two sectors, which I believe have been at the expense of other sectors in this country. I think I'm sure that I'm right, a respectable president, although I haven't won the time to look it up, that some years ago, ninety-two years ago, there were suggestions to unite all the workers in one department called the Department of Employment. This may have been the least of the factors that led to the lack of the concept of delinquency, the Department of Agriculture, and the Marine Department. During the past few years, the interest management of the fishing industry has been first and the last focus is on maintaining the natural interest of the industry and the activities of the owner, from the nation, from the people of the land, and while those who have had permission to hunt and use the fish from the sea have been able to sweep them of very unusual profits. This has been at the expense of the lives of all of us in the country and at the expense of the welfare system in this country. It's different about agriculture, a respectable president. He needs to be strengthened, and he needs to be supportive. The problem is that when people criticize what I want to say is the trees around the agriculture, trees and old systems, old fashioned, old - fashioned, they're always accused of opposing agriculture, being on the other side of land, being against farmers. It's all a lie, a respectable president. However, there is a great need for us to reexamine the exact way in which we will support the agriculture. When this contract was first introduced - and it's not a small deal, we're talking about 160 billion in direct pay in ten years - it was said that it should be excluded from milk production. The acquaintances told me, men and women I'm paying attention to, that there's a lot of work to stop the eating system from making milk. Hence, you may be able to overlook a few things if they succeed. A respectable president. This agreement made between farmers and state, not consumers, not us who buy the food, not us who pay the taxes, but between the state and the farm, is no longer the matter of removing the milking system into milk production. He's till 10 years old. He's to be revised in five years. They're going to start tissueing from the eater system after it has been revised. Who will be allowed to decide whether he will be revised or not? Farmers. They are expected to go to a special vote on whether the contract, which is so great that it is intended to disqualify the milk system, will be revised. And the rest of the people and the rest of the people who made the deal, the state, we have nothing to say, nothing. It's just farmers who will decide. I don't want anyone to think I don't like farmers. I don't hate farmers. But no one in this country is supposed to be able to make this for himself. No one should be able to do that. The labor movement cannot do that. I heard someone say before that we were artists, we strengthened the National Theater, and we did, and we did, and we wanted to like it. But that's a whole different story, a respectable president. It is a very different matter to support our culture, as we do, or to continue making trees, old - fashioned contracts with farmers. We're supposed to make new contracts with farmers, and we're supposed to do them according to the methods of 2016, not the methods that were established in 1950, the year I was born. This is actually what is said of the agreement: The growing of agricultural support is greatly increased and made more widely. Land pay: General support for growing countries that are not bound to a specific production. Support for organic production tenfold from the present level. - Tenfold. What is he now? Is it a zero? It is zero, though it is ten times that. Or is he one or two? It matters how high it is. Everything's hidden here. - Recent support is all transferred to frames, increased, and made more general. So everyone in conversation is so happy that it should be supported by goat farming. I'm very pleased with that. I believe we're supposed to be sponsoring goat farming, and I think we should allow people who make goat cheeses and until after the streets to sell them. But we don't do that because we want all of this to happen, and we don't want anyone who's gonna come up with something new. This has taken us many years, and finally we are going to start making the brave people enjoy something from general funds that I agree on to be done. A respectable president. I just want to come in to the payment of sheep farmers. I find it odd that certain viewpoints should not be taken into consideration. Someone told me, because I asked: Is it not taken into account in these suggestions that touch sheep farmers that it may be better from an environmental point of view to have a sheep in one area than another, if I may say so? Because we know exactly how the blessed sheep has dealt with our land. The answer is: No, you can't do that. There is nothing taken into account in these contracts that areas of land vary from one to the other to include certain habitats. Why is this not done? Why do we have it so that sheep can be used for grassies instead of somewhere where it would be more convenient for the blessed sheep to do their work? Why do we do this? Another thing I don't understand is that people talk a lot about increasing the value of the products of the sheep, and we're going to have to increase the value of the products because we're going to try to sell more to the foreigners who come here. True, we need to do so and, in effect, a little wonder how difficult it is for us to do. I'm not blaming anybody, it was just an observation. However, we are also going to expand their export. I'd like to warn you that we are going to be a great help to some of the habitats in this country because we're going to move more out of the products. It has been mentioned earlier today that many years ago it was actually possible to show that we were paying for exporting, yes, and that we even paid to exported meat. So if they moved the products out of the country, they got some extra money, I think. It's over now. But we must be careful not to go in the direction that we are paying to farm so that we can move out. I'd like to put a special emphasis on that. I think it must be that the committee that gets this case to themselves makes it very clear to the rest of us and shows that it is not being done. Then, naturally, in this contract, it's like so far, you can keep your hand on the Velact and so it's going to be all right. This should still be so that no distinction can be made between the source of milk and etc. It's gonna cost everything. Of course, it is true that if it was not, some towns fell out, and milk could not be drawn in two or three times a week and in any weather. I don't think it's false stories that in the remotest farms there are times when the milk needs to be poured out because the milk truck can't make it. Of course, it would be difficult for those who live so remote. But then we need to make it a different way. If so, we need to improve the quality of the people who live in such situations in a way other than to extend and maintain this system. I'd like to stand by for that, a respectable president. This is an important bill, and I don't need to tell a president. He must hear I'm going through this in the dog pool. But I would like to mention, as I said, that we are paying here 160 billion in 10 years. That's 12, 13, 14 billion a year. Then we're going to pay, that's a special amount, and I'm sure it's 16 billion, especially for farmers, so that they can maintain a routine to keep track of all of this together. What trade does such a service have from the State? However, it is natural toll protection. It's up to 9 billion a year. Some have calculated a process protection that is more than that, I'm not going to go into that term, but there are men who say there's some sort of processing protection. But I'm gonna stick to the customs protection, which is nine point points a year. Then, in these contracts, it is time to raise toll protection on cheese. Tolls have to be updated. The amplifiers suggested to be updated to match the prices are on so-called delicate products, skimmed and milk powders as well as cheese. I'm told, more dignified President, this is a 100% increase in customs protection. Let's see some imported cheeses enough for now. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u87	Madam President. Although I am not going to extend much discussion on this subject, it is important to mention a few points. First of all, there is a big issue in the future of the Icelandic agricultural economy. It's my feeling that most of them are down there. Parliaments are interested in the future of Icelandic agriculture and want to ensure that it is the best. Therefore, it is my opinion that it would have been better if this contract had been made more familiar. It's true that you introduced your ex-fiancée. Ministers of the situation for us, the presidents of all classes, at an advanced level of contract. But in the long - term shape of policy development in one of the basic ways of the nation, I would have felt that this advice could have been more extensive. Directly, I think, as many of them have. Today, members of the Parliament have pointed out that there had to be a need, and now it has been answered that the tax agreement with the EU will be discussed next week. I expect these matters to be discussed in the context of the council, as this is a vision for Icelandic agriculture. There the customs contract will have a lot of effect, e.g. for those with reduced farms in pig farms, i.e. Not necessarily large, but it's a family shop for pig farms. The contract will also have a major impact on chicken and egg farms. This is a policy-making thing that is important for us to discuss in context and to discuss our future vision of agriculture and how we see Iceland's ability to become as good as possible when it comes to food production, where we want to go, how the customs contract will affect pig farms and chicken and egg farms and how we want these sectors to develop. I think it's important that we talk about the context and that our work here at the council will be arranged so that we can discuss these issues in context because they are going to go to where we want to take the Icelandic agriculture. We're talking about big dating decisions ten years into the future. It is clear that these agreements have been handled in a number of ways. It is also evident that there are different viewpoints in this corner, the sheepfolds in the other. There are quite different views. It is clear, therefore, that when we discuss different areas of agriculture, we have a somewhat different interests here. So, what's the big picture? Yeah. There are two things I would like to mention outside the context of the customs agreement and the context of our business with other nations. First, the export, export support, and questions it raises as to whether we support national agriculture products or whether we support domestic agriculture primarily for Icelandic consumers. It is a political matter, and it may not be about it. Certainly it is positive if domestic products, quality products can be exported. That's the best part. But the argument for the support has been for Icelandic consumers, that it is important for us who live here in this country that we have national agriculture. It involves both the quality and the loyalty's motive. I think this case needs to be thoroughly discussed, because that is a fundamental change from the course that has been high for 30 years. I think this is a basic question of what is the basis of national support for agriculture, for domestic agriculture. I said, at the outset, that I think it's extremely important that we stand here for a powerful domestic agriculture. For this reason environmental considerations are primarily from the broad context, i.e. I think it is extremely important for the public to have access to agri-environmental products produced near us, which have not traveled long distances with related climate impacts to the country. In this way we also ensure the health issues that are very important and they need to be discussed, just so I mention them in connection with the customs agreement, for we know well that we are applying to the international views we have held here to prohibit the import of raw meat. It raises questions, too. On the contrary, it is the advice of those who happen to know who work here in the agricultural field and within the animal health sector that it is important to abstain from it. But the environmental impacts are definitely important, and I want to use this opportunity to draw attention to an answer received by a query. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir on the environmental impact of domestic contracts from the highest level. Environmental impact evaluations and the environmental objectives of domestic products and other established measures have not been used, however, the environmental impact has not been evaluated. Then, we will discuss many things with the general goals we have had in the Paris congregation, such as the obligation to support green protection and land healing. However, these assays are also not observed. Ex-fiancé has been observed. Marine and agricultural ministers in the queries or discussions we had on this matter here at the council that the agricultural agreements have not been associated with the climate targets. Although agricultural issues were of enormous importance, the agricultural agreements have not been placed in that special context. In view of the fact that we're here with a contract and a long-term change in law, I wonder why it hasn't been done. Why has there been no more work here? The answer, of course, by Mrs. President's permission, requires the cooperation of a number of people and, in fact, the community of all countries to achieve the objective of the Paris meeting. Right, Madam President. You see, that's exactly what it is, and that's where farming matters. Not by itself, of course not. We also need to have this conversation with the fishing route, and we need to deal with the country's industry, and we need to have it on transportation. What I wonder now is that when a decade of policy is set, long into the future, these goals are not more pronounced. That's the least of it, i.e. how we will face the future here when it comes to food production, how we will provide food based on food security and food security standards for the population in this country, and how we can contribute to these goals, climate targets. At least this, I'll talk to all the farmers I met on my trips through the country, and they're quite ready for that conversation. But I don't see the place in this agreement, so it needs to be changed. I wonder here, however, whether this is not to be considered in a special way during a political treatment for changing the bill how these matters can be taken into the domestic agreements. There's some reexamination regulations and stuff like that. It is also a matter of not taking the time to do so. Now that we'll be here until the fall, the law should first take effect on January 1, 2017, according to the enunciation principle. I would say that there are some articles that need to be examined based on the points presented here in discussions that vary, and there are different challenges to some of these agreements. We know that e.g. The garden contract is somewhat unchanged and has been considered relatively successful. Since then, for example, we have heard much criticism from sheepfolds. There's a lot of difference between areas when looking at them. However, certain changes in the milk contracts were made, and there they made adjustments in the requirements of cow farmers. The fact is that criticism differs. The individual sectors of this contract need to be reviewed, but the overall objectives of climate change need to be reviewed as well. I think there's a lethal instrument, so I'll say it at the highest. Minister, to mark this bill and these contracts according to the goals we have already taken. I thought it was important that we get here because many people have already said a lot about the contracts, but climate targets have been more in the form of secondarys. Of course, they are to be our primary objective in all the legal procedures that we set for this council. I've been asking you when to validate the Paris meeting and have been told that it stands to do so as soon as possible. I hope it will be at this council. Of course, we should have taken it into all our policies. There should be a policy for agriculture in Iceland for the next ten years. This has to be part of it. There are acceptable methods, such as eco-efficiency, environmental assessment, and the like. I'll let me say it, of course, I haven't met every farmer in the country, but the ones I've spoken to I hear are ready for this. They're willing to take this conversation because we know that the climate effects of running our own agriculture are also important to us, that we are not here to import food that takes half the way around the globe. Our goal should be that we do not need it. It is an important climate, and we should be able to unite in it across all categories. I'm not going to extend the discussion. I just want to say that I think this has to be done in a special way. This need to be considered in the context of the goals we have already pursued. And even if it takes more time in the council than people have hoped for it, it is important if we are to look ahead to the length of time in order to review the criticisms presented here in different parts of this agreement. It matters. I specifically mention the sheep contract and the customs agreements and their influence on pig culture and egg and chicken farms. There are some things that need to be viewed at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u88	A respectable president. I'm going to start making a confession that, unfortunately, I couldn't be on top of the bottom line. A minister who followed the case carefully, but I still feel that it is important to provide some of the points that were presented in this discussion at the time when I was able to observe it and to discuss it a little more, as I feel that there are many good things that have come from those who have participated in the conversation that I would like to agree with and to disagree at the right time. I'd like to reroute the discussion that we're dealing with the livestock contracts as a work environment for one industry. There are plenty of other things that affect farm environment. Most of the time, Icelandic farmers did not live with any livestock or livestock contracts. It simply limited nature and climate in Iceland. Bioavailability to soil is one factor. It's all very big things that affect how agriculture develops and how we can survive agriculture in this country. Other aspects of agriculture have been fully modified according to increasing technology, social change, etc. Also, making deals with farmers, farm contracts, or preparing agricultural policy is not an expert phenomenon. You see, agriculturalism is a big issue in most countries that we compare with. It is in varying shape. It includes all the factors I have mentioned, access to land, financial markets, etc. All of this has an impact on agricultural policy. Icelandic farming contracts are actually a relatively low-level agricultural contract because we're moving in about half of all the farms we need and we're using this country. You need to keep in mind when discussing your livestock contracts that we have only a small amount of Icelandic agriculture and that we have decided to look to the factors we have created working conditions for or have conditions for which we are working. I agree, however, with the last speaker who gave a brilliant talk earlier. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, we should naturally advance and produce more of the farms we use here. I think it's simply national wisdom. Many other countries use various political decisions and policies to prepare agriculture to be practiced in those countries or within the countries, and they view it as a particular cornerstone of national independence and to keep their communities together and together. On the last day of Pentecost, e.g. Treaties between Norwegian governments and Norwegian farmers We can have opinions about how to make these agreements that we are dealing with, but the arrangement in Norway is in such a way that in May every month there are discussions about agricultural treaties, to which I ended up. It's a process that's developed. Each government and other part of the world at any given time must deal with the decision to shape agricultural policy. The intervention of the Norwegian agricultural system, because we now call this system, is far wider and much more extensive than we have in the Icelandic agricultural system. It is true to report that the decision to make negotiations on the day of Pentecost or on Sunday was in such a way that in Norway the government greatly increased support of Norwegian agriculture, which may not have been by itself compared to the composition of that government and the dealings of farmers with that government in recent years. Very interesting approach, but it reflects a situation. We have not discussed much of the current agricultural situation in countries around us and in other European countries. It's very interesting to look at it. I think it would be very important to discuss farm contracts for the next year here at the council to learn what happens to agriculture in other countries around us. It has become quite news, for the agricultural environment, in fact, has become so extreme that it can only be said that it has become a complete revolution. A few years ago, we were dealing with high demand for farms. Between 2007 and2008, global market prices for food increased immensely. Between 2002 and 2012, world market prices doubled in food. There's been a serious setback in it because of the various conditions that have been broken out in the world, commercial wars with Russia, etc., which have actually put the European agriculture on its side completely. It is in the light of that intervention by Norwegian government to Norwegian farmers this weekend. The agriculture industry in Norway is being wrapped up to withstand the storms of European agriculture. European agriculture also copes with the consequences of detoxification in milk. It is interesting to examine such experiences in view of our plans to take some step, and it is written into these agreements that we want to enter that direction. Of course, and hopefully, I say, we'll ever get to a place where we don't have to produce milk. But the reality is just this: There has been a collapse of milk production in Europe within a few months of the detriment system. It plays into the close - up markets of Asia and Russia. It has also affected Iceland. This has led to the effect of e.g. The price of lamb and other livestock we're moving out has given us a great deal to do. So the state of agriculture in the countries around us and the contribution of farmers is very serious. In our discussion today, we may not have watched very much of the increase in farmers. The results of the farmers are in this sense just the result of small family companies in Iceland. We must always realize when talking about farm contracts, we're talking about small family companies who are agrienvironmentals in Icelandic areas, whether we talk about agricultural policies or agricultural systems. Should we mention in 1943 the first major intervention by the government in later years into the health of farmers? There was a agreement between the labour market partners to step into the agriculture and manage it in order to make peace with the labour market, in order for negotiations to reach and peace to be created in a labour market. Then the steps were taken to direct the survival of farmers. Then they made incentives to increase their agricultural production. We can mention in 1946 or 1947, where there was an intense conflict and collapse in the Icelandic peasant class, which suffered very serious consequences just because of this intervention. However, time goes on, and until 1980 there was a long period of building up. By 1980 it became clear that we had nothing to do with all the productions that were then on the table. There had also been changes in agricultural policy in other countries, so action was taken. Therefore, we are required to examine the market agreements in relation to that development. We are still thinking about the goal of building the countryside, securing the supply of farmers, and making sure that the agricultural production makes sense. That's why I think it was very important to have concluded these contracts at this time to see only through decomposition of production to milk production. I think that at the work of the Committee, we should take that discussion particularly for how we can see it developing. The hardware contracts are also contracts for the people working in the deportation centres, working out the goods. When people talk about the competitive attitude of agriculture, I want to drop into the discussion simply the facts that sheep farmers, now in the middle of sheep, and doubtless few of them, are observing the discussions of agricultural contracts, get lower prices in their pocket during the autumn of the coming, and that is how it has been in the past autumn, while their colleagues in the countries around us, and even so much so. But once we've gone all the way back to the consumers, we're going to lean back on it. This is a project that I think we have to plan to analyze and why this situation is here. I can also name a short time of beef, although the harvest of farmers in beef has changed in recent months. But when people are calling for a debate about agricultural and agricultural policy and not discussing the entire chain of value, and looking only at agricultural contracts, without realizing what the cost is and how the cost is, I feel that it would be quite open to me, and we needed to get further caught. They're talking about export improvements, that we're not now taking the step of a sheep contract that will be made here for production incentives, and we're not going to pay in a foreign market. I don't read the livestock contract any other way, so we're agreeing to engage in a legitimate and good market campaign for Icelandic livestock, we're not going to use government funds to pay off the price of foreign food. That's why no one's willing. Professional authorities and I can accept challenges when we start working on the situation and frame it even better, but the rest is out of my mind. But let us also be reasonable in this discussion. We're on the other side talking about an increase in opening so far. We're talking about reductions in customs, increased access to freedom. So why don't we ask that there be no support for this move to the country? Shall we ask for it? Are we sure that meat brought today, whether by customs or by customs, does not have any support to market our markets? Of course, we just accept a challenge for that discussion, and I'm not saying that exports will be recorded, but I think we can reasonably say that there's a good way to make that mistake. I'm not going to vote by starting some export system again, because the Icelanders were among the first nations to decommission such a system. But to this day, moving from countries with exports and transporting goods is still under way. Down here in Iceland. Third, I want to mention the grand opportunities we have in our production place, our clean air and clean water and clean land. We've taken over very large decisions that inhibit economic efficiency in Icelandic agriculture. We've done it with our eyes open. During the years 1965-1970, we decided not to use hormones and other growth - inspiring materials to produce meat in Iceland, especially beef. We said no. It was not necessarily with the special will and support of Icelandic farmers, but we see today how precious it is for us to have decided this. It is our chief trumpet today to have taken that step. In 1985 we decided to make significant use of antibiotics in feed, and we banned the use of antibiotics in feed. Today, we have agriculture that uses very little antibiotics, and it has an enormous impact on public health in our country to have made a decision in 1985 and thus work toward that trend. It is very important that we keep in mind that these two factors are factors that make the country less productive than the agriculture we should then compete with. I believe that the next big decision in these subjects, if I may announce it, a respectable president, is that we should be allowed from 2020 or earlier, as soon as possible, not to allow the use of genetically modified raw materials for feeding in Iceland. I thought it would be a worthwhile assignment because we want to preserve the unique status of the Icelandic agricultural field. The agreement is also a contract on how we will maintain the status of Icelandic farms, sex reform work, the counseling work around them, because we have responsibilities there. A respectable president. I want to end this talk with the question. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who spoke in excellent speech on climate issues. I agree with the senator on the emphasis on that subject. I'd also like to remind you that farmers and the highest. Environment Ministers have signed an agreement on the preparation of climate guidance and the contribution of agriculture to this process. I'm totally convinced that there's a lot of agriculture there. I believe I know with confidence, a respectable president, that many things in our farming, because we use mostly grass as food, make our livestock less greenhouse gases than livestock in the countries we prefer to compare with.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u89	Mr. President. I'm just gonna take part in a little discussion about the livestock contract. It's not bad for me to come here after what happened. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, who may know this better than many others in this room. I can agree with very things, if not most, of what he went over. However, as with others, this agreement is now made so that we can accept it in all respects, for it is so that when votes were paid for it among those to whom it was concerned, it was first found to be unsatisfactory in the vote. Less than 1,700 share in the sheep contracts, of which nearly 3,000 are registered, of which only 60% agree. It tells us that there is a serious disagreement about that deal. That's one of the things we left greens have been doing a little bit of caution in our discussion today, saying that we need to go better and have to bring him back to the Ministry to review him better. 75%, on the other hand, accept the cattle contract. There is also more participation, almost 71% but only 56% in sheep farms. These are contracts with farmers who are underneath, and they are basically four, and they have ten years, as this says. This is a framework deal on the general working conditions of the agricultural industry and contracts for the working conditions of cattle farming, sheep farming, and then gardening. In this process it was expected that the milk system and sheep'flocks would be reduced, but, fortunately, the decision to keep the present position unchanged for some time, certainly at a vote in 2019, i.e. Farmers may request a vote for the mobilization of the peddler system in that year. It is also abdicating production management and, as noted today, has been observed in the early stages of the year. A senator about the export improvements, and I have to agree with him, that's one of the things we don't want to see, at least not me. I would like to see domestic production greatly strengthened, and it should, of course, be less expensive to consumers. Like what? For some reason, a senator came in, it seems that it did not happen. I have to agree with what he said about the conditions around us. That's what I think of in the last farm paper they call "Mate." The situation in Denmark, where some 200 farmers have gone under, has gone bankrupt. As much bankruptcy has been measured in Denmark since 1994. It is primarily because the price for milk and pork is so low. That's what we bring in enormous amounts of, especially the pork. Then we are indirectly involved in the lack of adequate prices for farmers abroad, or that tells us at least that. if it leans so seriously against the foot that it closes in roughness. The same is true of the collapse of dairy products in our neighboring countries. That is exactly what we need to consider. Do we want to be involved with the Icelandic agriculture not to subsidize it or any other way or less than to buy imported raw materials? Then we'd like to invite our farmers to a very aggressive competition, I'd say. It is also very important that there are activities, much more than one in prayer, at stake. Of course, there are a lot of secondary jobs, and not just carvers at demolitions and elsewhere, there are many other secondary jobs involved in the practice of farming in the way it does. It's also very important to think that it's a low-paying job, that farmers are pretty low-paying, and I wondered about what's going on in the bill. It quotes the milestone reports made in 2013 as well as the position of women in agriculture, which was compiled by the Office of Living as 2015. It shows how small women have been given, primarily because the law has been in this way. Women were in sheep fields with 15.2%, and they accepted 12% of total payment in the bone payment while the men were in over 82%. This bill is being tried to fix it, but I wondered that since 2008, women who engage in agricultural work have dropped 100, that is 7% in six years. Men, too, have decreased by 12%, but I wondered if there's anything to do with how the bone process has been performed or what it's under there. It doesn't seem to be in the process, but it's suggested that it be changed here, and that's good. Early today, some areas were affected by the fact that sheep do not get better off than others. There is something that prompts us to believe that we need to consider the agreement, that it cannot succeed like this, so that we do not find ourselves in a situation similar to that of our neighboring nations, at least. not something I'm picturing. The direct pay may be around 45% of the farm's salary. We need to examine the middleman much rather than complain about this support in my opinion. I think we can agree, or I'll say at least, that a powerful and varied agriculture is a prescription for a flourishing population in the whole country. I think it is a precious part of our community and of economic importance. We have a very valuable breeding land, we have plenty of water, we also have knowledge to make good use of it. Food production has been, and I hope it stays that way, grieving about agriculture and employment in the rural area. Much of our lowlands are well - equipped to deal with some type of agricultural product, and it is indeed, so the nation will need food for the future. Then it's good to be able to be somewhat self-sustained about that production. Most nations have the goal of being the most self - assured of food production for their citizens. It's one of those things that's important wherever it's possible. We know that history has many examples that lack of food can lead to a solution and a situation that we do not know which way to go. It is, therefore, my opinion that it is quite clearly in the matter of national interest to run a powerful food product in the country and that it dwells on domestic resources. By doing so, we will return the most national preparations, both for the use of the resource and for the work it needs to contribute to the production process. There have been reports of a multiple effect in this early industry, around 2.5, which means that each year's production in agriculture produces 2.5 jobs in processing, transport, and other related jobs. It is all right to recall that government initiatives to support agriculture in April 2009 and then to renew the farm contract and the agreement with sheep farmers and dairy producers on the autumn days 2012 underscore our left-hand policies in support of these traditional agriculture. I am convinced that the actions of the agricultural industry used to cover the collapse years and were guaranteed by later contracts. There are also many side effects in this, whether it is animal or grain, that the agricultural system benefits. We've seen products made in the form of a beverage from the latter product in many places. Fortunately, there has been a growing increase in the number of tourism services and rural areas. There are, therefore, many factors that help, but it is also shocking to have a wide variety of jobs in one place just to survive, even though many other aspects of life may be positive. I have to agree with what is said about our agricultural products and food productions, as well as when it comes to the use of antibiotics. Of course, it is of utmost importance, and all of us must want a clean product or as a clean product. I agree with it. A senator before me said what the next steps will be about genetically modified material in feeding. It's our major project to make up a clean product, and I think we did it very well, so I think we'll find it when we're abroad. I also agree with the environmental awareness and lack of it. I hope, and agree with those who have talked about the discussion of the committee, that it must be tried in some other way or in some other way. Like what? The director of the left movement ▪ Green Pronunciation said earlier, there are farmers up to its range of work. We are to take advantage of this by doing better in this contract because a powerful and dynamic farming is both urgent and urgent environmental issues. It is quite clear in the current discussion that the future of this industry, our agriculture, needs to be built on a broad level of agreement on the working conditions and the many roles he has in our community, whether it is about making healthy food at an affordable price, trusting the farm in the rural area, maintaining environmental concerns, securing food security, supporting tourism and other employment or what it is now. All of this needs to be subject to, and there is a need to be in the far - reaching state of peace. In such a big deal, we have to meet somewhere, and I'm sure we have to do it in this matter like so many others, but most of all, we have to support it so that it will fulfill what I listed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u90	Mr. President. I thank the senator for a fine talk, but it brings up a point that I don't think any further delay is needed, and this is part of the criticism that is directly addressed to the part of this Convention, which is the sheep deal. Now, in this case all three of the big regional districts have a sensitive area. I'd like to ask the senator to discuss only the discussion that I know has made possible a fleet in the Northern county, in the region, on this part of the contract that is involved in the transfer of support through good health and possible illness. In case of a moment. A senator would want to frame some of that discussion and what ideas it would have to face. I also want to remind you that there are always consequences of all decisions. I say that I agree that we need to consider this section of the sheep agreement very carefully. The other is that this debate is the result of trying to break out of the discussion that is often east and west; it can't be changed, but it's going to change, and then it's going to have consequences. I ask the senator to discuss it only and what ideas it has, in turn, had a part in the discussion or would like to point out how to deal with this section of criticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u91	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'm not an expert on agricultural matters, but when we get down on these details that may be the big things in the contract, they've been talking about the loss of money during the season being too great, once it's been too big to be able to support a family. We may be talking about farms with about 600 winter-fed sheep for a family to support themselves or more. The rule to replace, i.e. about 0.7 sheep, I understand that, but the senator knows how to do it better than I do, and I just correct them, that was enough to put 70% of the stock in order to use the payment market, and then farmers could keep these straight-ups in full but can't do it if this contract is done in this way. This may be what you've heard mainly from them, that they believe that the wasting of the season is just too much on this support. I believe that you can do better than that. We see that cow farmers came better from negotiations with the state, produced changes that the sheep farmers did not seem to have achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u92	President. I appreciate the answer. I like it very much. I agree with the senator that this is a point we must carefully review and try to meet that criticism with some creative thought. But I remind you, we're talking something east and west in all this discussion. This gave a brilliant talk about the trees being a agricultural system. We can have 100 opinions on these things. We're in the sheep's contract trying to get out of an old ecstatic system, which viewers in this discussion may not fully comprehend, and I think we need to respect that view. But I agree with the senator that we need to be careful about this. That's kind of what I wanted to draw out. The rest of it. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir made a good point in his talk about agricultural policy and the way we talk about our business and the government's policy. Because I've only learned about the agricultural business in other areas -- then tell the senator to discuss it in his second answer, I'm not working hard on it, Mr. President -- why we fail to form a little something about this broad solidarity. Whether the senator agrees that we should allow more companies to shape that policy, whether they are members of the labour market, business companies, industry, or farmers. I'm not talking about such an organization being in control of the farmers. Rather, we need a much larger group. I remind you that in the short term, we were assigned to a stock market stock, representatives of ASI, and representatives of the BSRB. I'm simply saying, Mr. President, I don't think the representatives of their employee organizations have been able to achieve at least one of the better compensations for their clients than participate in agricultural policies. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Getting out of the old system -- I think it's the first thing and last thing about farmers not carrying a cut thing from the table. We know we have a low-pay policy, i.e. Farmers are over their heads, of course not everyone, but many sheep ask who may not be fat on their own business. I think it's about us making sure that at least they don't qualify for loss of time and that their circumstances in order to continue their farming will be acceptable if they just don't give up. It must be the first and last thing that this is about. Given that, as I understand it, there are certain areas where farmers might be in danger because of this. I agree with what. Senator, I don't really understand why others were not allowed to do this at the outset. It was shown in the discussion today that it was a somewhat closed process to go through this contract again, and though with the considerable change in the available, which I believe was a mistake to try to achieve the reconciliation I spoke about in my earlier case. It is quite possible that this is not achieved if we work in small groups and whether it was because the prices committee was available and here on the basis of laying down or what, it doesn't change what it really is, but that if a conversation takes place in a variety of ways, it is more likely that the results will be reached that most people can accept. Of course, we never all share our views, but we can at least agree on the way that nobody gets hurt in that conversation. At least it's worth the experiment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u94	Mr. President. I didn't necessarily want to participate in this conversation, since I'm not much of agri-gri-gri-environment expert, even though my husband's farmers are in the middle of nowhere, I don't know how far back in the centuries, but I still want to come up here. Hv. paritaprevir For example, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson spoke of such knowledge that a man was bowed down in his knees, but that is also what is good at the Council, that there are people who have knowledge in various fields. That's true of this group, like everyone else. I have access to people who know things and have only tried to put me in this because I really care about farmers and I really care about Icelandic farming. I also care about Icelandic consumers and how much they have to pay for it. One person I know well, whose name is Þórunn Pétursdóttir, a land - healing doctor, wrote an article in the Core not long ago called the local agricultural Minister, κ. She's here, I'm saying this isn't an image of a agricultural minister, it's from his client east of the countryside. I want to read this article. I don't know if it's the highest. Agricultural minister has read it, but I would like to read it because it speaks of a professional person who knows about sheep farming and farming. It starts like this, with President's permission: ▪ As soon as I congratulate you on your new seat, I'd like to share with you, and other interested people, questions about how governments can create sheep's funds a decent environment for the future. Your government president of the Ministry recently signed a contract with sheep farmers. According to him, for the next 10 years, we will make up as many as 50 billion concentrations in this article. The treaty does not include innovation. Rather, it clings to the subject of habit. As a good man said to me the other day when I introduced him to see if he hadn't had a reason to change the structure and open it to the innovations ◯ It's the sheep deal! We both know that the annual consumption of sheep is similar in sight from what was when you and I were little children. There is also some evidence that in spite of all market work, internal consumption has continued to increase beyond 10 years. You see, young people are becoming increasingly free from eating meat; for moral reasons. Their children will likely not learn to eat meat and the consumer market will thus continue to shrink. Today, farmers produce one third more sheep than the people make squares. We are once again dreaming of a powerful export, but despite decades of searching for markets abroad, we have not yet been able to get a good price for the meat. In fact, a report from the National Association of Sheepcrows at dawn shows that the market opportunities for organic production are huge ◯! This is only a problem, because according to my best knowledge, there are only nine sheep nests in the country that produce organic Witnesses of lamb. If we assume that these are all medium-sized, the share of organic lamb is only less than 1% of the total annual production of this article. Is it not unwise to build a new market in foreign lands? Another factor that has to do with the sheep's contracts is land use. In accordance with the contract, sustainable land use should be emphasised but nothing given up on how to achieve that objective. Now, once the Environment Minister has just dropped off to NY to sign the climate agreement on our behalf, it is not impossible to remind that Iceland is an ecologically the worst country in Europe. Terrain deportation is enormous. In the foundation of unsuspecting land uses; driven by livestock and forestry over the centuries by excessive weather, volcanic eruptions, and other natural disasters. Nevertheless, we are still complaining about the use of this wealth or the rest of the highlands. The government's strategy certainly highlights land healing as an operation to reduce the impact of climate change. Sadly, this does not correlate with the use of land. A broken land is a means, not by itself, but by a means of improving its state. If use is not adjusted accordingly, the operation at best will be weakened. Sheep farms, such as it is practiced here, are largely built on economic resources, and it is sobering to note that the new sheep's contract does not rest on resource management of a more advanced land - use program for each of the rights/victions of the land, where innovation actually takes into account the state of vegetation and soil. Sadly, the national component of quality management in sheep culture does not meet these basic requirements and few today, suggesting that it will develop into the real control tool of sustainable resource efficiency. Similarly, it is sobering to consider why the content of the agreement is not directly linked with the government's focus on climate. The opportunity to change the support systems of the article in environmental payment is huge. Similarly, the social responsibilities of the country's business are incredibly interesting. But there is no platform where these issues can be considered and applied to the future view of an Icelandic rural town. That is, my dear agricultural minister, the Hawk of the Sheep Farm. Lack of overall vision and integrated environmental and agriculture products for the management and strains associated with this article will result in a rapid return to innovation. Why does the Environment Ministry not create a direct approach to the work of the sheep agreement? Why don't you have a cross-cutting field of advice on environmental and agricultural matters? Should stakeholders be able to work on the resource use only as desired? We must not forget that most of the highlands belong to the Icelandic state, and I would have thought the Environment Ministry was its best spokesman, or...? During the past few years, along with my colleagues, I have been involved in considerable research and in the ecological and social systems of economic recovery and the recovery of an expansive economy. We have made a special point of considering whether government agricultural and environmental policies involved in the above - mentioned factors are, in fact, providing the results for them. There are a few tools about it. An article published in the 2013 journal Ecology and Society will make it very clear that it is not the farmers themselves as a group that maintains evolution but rather the ivory poles of the management board, which handle agrienvironmental and environmental issues, the underlying conflict of power between institutions and weak and uncertain policies. More articles are waiting for publication in professional magazines, but I am invited and prepared to inform you of their contents at any time. Dear agricultural minister. In spite of all of this, I am convinced that sheep's flocks have a future as the producer of high quality products that are given to expensive judgments. As planned by a new contract: quality beyond abundance! However, all factors must be considered from the beginning, through the sponsors, consumers, resource management and rural development of the climate as a redline. You gained respect by standing firm in matters related to the sea road, despite the heavy pressure on the part of the strong groups of interest you faced. I sincerely hope that you will handle the affairs of this country in the same way in your new office but will not allow interest groups to lead them to work. There were so many words in this article. I'd also like to say that it has been shown, for example. ... ina matterwhat. paritaprevir Pétursdóttir's wifeship, that we cannot support these contracts unchanged. I find it very challenging to consult with the local public, consumers and taxpayers, who must bear the cost of the contract and have a lot of interest in getting an assessment of the most favorable terms. Their interests are the greater as food is a larger part of a family's total budget. This means that the best interests of those who have little to play and the children of many families are. Thus, this is an enormous interest in young children and their standard of living, directly affecting how desirable it is to live in the land, one of many things. Also important is the government's policies on food import, including agricultural products. It has been observed in our discussion here today that we will discuss the matter next week. These are things that must be kept in mind in this example. Thus, these treaties are by no means a personal matter between the interests of farmers and the government. Rather, they are concerned with the interests of the whole nation in the present and future. Here is a set of terms for the tax paid by the public, which will not be used to further the impulse of social projects. It's the tax of all the public that is bound in a particular way in the long run. All treatments must therefore be taken into account. A great deal with consumers, i.e. The general population in the country, and a high degree of transparency in the entire treatment of decision making, is therefore necessary and a great deal of justice is being developed. It must then be noted and criticized that the contracts are intended to apply for more than two terms ahead of time. Of course, the political parties that now form a government and hold that treaties may be authorized to take control of the country at that time. So little agreement with the parties is not just disrespectful to the general public but to the democracy of the country. I feel that this is a textbook of evil tactics in the treatment of political power, which is designed to promote divisions and divisions among the people of the country, depending on what they do and where they live. And today, it has been observed that much of the country's combined and that we may want to see some changes in being an enemy of farmers, so far from now on. Farmers are one of the most important classes in the country, and we know that. Such treatment of power is irresponsible and in opposition to good political and administrative practices and leads to conflict and less efficiency, which again costs the nation a lot of money. Long ago it is time for the present government to understand this and leave its irresponsible and costly efforts to promote divisions that it has, unfortunately, overexacted rather than trying to make peace over the course and course of which is one of the main policies and a declaration of policy. But it's not all bad in this, and it's better in my contracts, and those who have been helping me with this, that there's a way to pay for innovation, and a new way to use the land. However, it is not enough, at all, and as there is more conflict about the agreements and the more difficult it is to achieve the general agreements, it is obvious that their continuation is uncertain and therefore how irresponsible and wise it is to make them in the long run. As I've said, from above, it's in a bullshit situation with the government and the government on this matter. The use of land and farming will be supported by innovation and new methods. The agricultural and support systems must do so, making it easier for those who want to use land in ways other than traditional farming that is dependent on official support. The system and its institutions must be motivated to think and work toward them. I'd like to take as an example from my district of farmers who have done something other than just been growing. I can name Aratungu and Smokeholt, since the World of Peace has built a marvelous tourism around tomatoes and vegetables. Then there is Ólafur in the Village of another farmer who has torn himself out of being a farmer and a new country and his knowledge and skill to another. Of course, the money used to support traditional farming can be used to improve the variety of sectoral development in the areas of the country. The wide variety is vital, and a variety of employment opportunities are also essential for young people who want to live in rural areas. You have to face it. The traditional farming tied up on a government strategist will not attract young people. Today, too, it has been observed that this article lacks recruitment. I'd like to mention, for agrienvironmental ministers are also a marine emissary, of course, the use of the marine resources that the nation has together to a much greater degree in building a wide range of opportunities for employment on the land and improving many social services there. The government has done nothing about it, unfortunately, but it has preserved the interests of the chosen ones who make very much of their personal rights to use the nation's resources without having to give back to the people who own it, and certainly not least to the people who live in the land, a natural and reasonable portion of the money it earns. Mr. President. The aim must be that agriculture will become like other employment practices, sustainable and can last as high as possible without official funding and toll protection which is not in accordance with the interests of the entire country. This needs to be taken into account by governments, agriculture institutions, farmers'forests, and the whole agricultural system. So many were words, but I'd like to agree as well. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson said earlier, that the greatest success has been in not having antibiotics and something special. We're also supposed to be on guard, but we have to work together. That's key. We agreed here today at the vote for a general apartment bill that took a long time in preparation, two and a half years and three, four months in a committee that was fully prepared for a bill. That's what we have to do with this, too, and I hope that's it. A pro board - here, a lot of its representatives - is doing this very well and calling people in agreement and cooperation. Let us do this so that we can reach the most far - reaching peace in this matter. It's been an endless cluster of contentions for way too long, and Iceland's agriculture is way too important, just like the sea route so that we're wasting our energy arguing about this forever. This has helped this nation to be divided, and that is what they cannot do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u95	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I just want to grab on to it materially because he deals with support systems and methods to support the agriculture and all these things and says: Of course, it is not an independent goal that agriculture needs public support in this way, either by direct support, or by customs protection. However, the fact is that if we are to preserve this relatively different agriculture we have in our country, we have to use some of these methods. I'd like to remind you that there's been a significant delay in recent years in support of Icelandic agriculture. Over a relatively short period of time, expenses have increased. If we were still with the same percentage of land production, we would be talking about 263/430 billion in direct support of agriculture. I think we should talk about it when we pulled this funding out of the industry, out of the countryside, and ask: "What happened to the money? Farming is another structured strand and how we stand built. Hv. A senator here brings up support plans and support payments. In leading up to this discussion, I studied only four reports to the European Commission on subsidies. Some 10◯12 years ago, the nature of the agricultural support system was modified, adopted, or expediented. All these reports actually tell us two facts: First of all, it's the profit of an intermediate. Their share in the market price has increased at this time. The other is that the support has resulted in a country where property has gathered in few hands and the financial resources that were previously to secure the production of food left in the article and in the hands of someone else. So I ask why. A senator: What does he have to do with his affairs? Agricultural systems are so often spoken of, and they need to be changed and raised, but I hear a lot less suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u96	V.E.G. President. As I noted earlier, I am not an expert in agriculture, but I think it's ideal to come up here and discuss these matters. For new suggestions, then--I don't know. It is exactly as indicated at the end of my talk that we need to discuss these matters with all stakeholders. allur of them. This bill was prepared with no consultation except by the Bavour and Food Organization, which supervises policy implementation. That's what I love most about it. I'm pretty sure, what. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, that if we do this much more in the cooperation and cooperation of all stakeholders, including the public, we could work out how to reduce our growth in agriculture. That's for damn sure. I have not studied agrienvironmental affairs in Europe of any knowledge because it is not in my category of custody, there are others who have. Hv. A senator mentioned how the healing has been done in the middle. Isn't that happening in Iceland, too? I read an article in the week that said that the most successful in all of this is the middle people and the people who produce it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Isn't that what's happening here? I'm afraid I think it's also happening in Iceland. As I said at the outset, I am not an expert on agriculture, and I am not ashamed to do so. It says why. A senator for me more than that. But I just want to point it out, and I've mentioned that we should increase our consultations. This is my suggestion. It's my suggestion to try to reduce these levels and make it less effective that agricultural products are not so high here. I honestly don't know exactly how to do it. That's why I'm pointing this out and quoting a professional I have access to about the sheep's flocks. But once again, I want to reiterate that it needs to be consulted.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I'm not looking for him as an expert on the stage, and I thought his answer was quite acceptable in the sense that we're a bit lost when it comes to pointing out ways. It's very easy to criticize and throw rocks and say, "It's not supposed to be like that, it's something different. In many ways, I agree with the viewpoints presented in an article that is valid. A senator quoted his speech. Therefore, I would like to state that under the lead of sheep farmers in the negotiations, as I know it, it was continued on the way of talking about reforms, quality management, and responsible use of the land, so I'm going to maintain it. I'm not making any comments on how the market policy was worked and about consultations. Although I thought that a conversation between governments and farmers was just a natural process, I am a spokesman for the responsibility of carrying out the agricultural policy below needs a larger and broader foundation. That's what I'm saying. Senator. Hv. In his speech, a senator specifically mentioned that a large portion of the sheep's produce had been removed and that we had nothing to do with it. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of Congress: Is he proclaiming that we cut down sheep and sheep in the land, merely making a domestic market?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u98	V.E.G. President. I just don't know if we should. I don't see a reason to produce lamb that we can't use and move down from the country. What are the benefits? Nobody. I can't see anything, because I can't stand the risk of reducing the money. As noted, we produce more than three times as much as we make squares. And there's always a shrink. Research shows that gradually the consumption could just fall apart, even more than now, down to 5 of you. tons a year. We need to rethink this. I don't see that there's any use in making something that nobody wants to eat. Don't eat tourists who come to this country with great appetite. They do not want this meat because it has become so in the world that everything is brought up on grain. That's the meat people want to eat. I was told by a caterer the other day I visited in the countryside that tourists thought the lamb was way too strong, it was way too tasty. Tourists are not used to eating wild things like us. It's the best meat in the world. Grinded pork chops! Jesús Christ, that's good. That's what I'm saying. Senator, if we have to, we'll just do it. This is not to be continued if it does not bring any benefits to the country, just to keep some farms or small farms ashore. Rather, we should try to strengthen innovation and build up something new around agriculture. The possibilities are incredible. We must have the courage to cope with change, but not always be terrified if there are any changes, the European Union, or anything else. Then everybody goes into some sort of gear. Yet, I do believe that we owe the sheep much. We probably owe her that we're standing here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u99	As a result of discussions about delicious food, the president wants to inform us that there will be food soon to be held in the cafeteria.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u100	A respectable president. I've thought it was a bit of a trick here. Councilmen have appeared in the platform and previously described a lack of knowledge of agricultural practices in general, and they were a little jealous of participating in discussions here. I don't think it necessary to say at the outset that I'm no expert on farming or agriculture, but I had every intention of saying this because I'm very interested in government business and the government's affairs on the public tax. This bill now seems to be more than just a matter of fact. I'm also a special person on clear legislation, readable lyrics, and so forth. I'd like to step in a few words to this bill because the bill may be fairly technical, as it has been shown in the case of what it does. Senators before me. It is in itself a concern that operating in Iceland should have the form and content that even those who use machines on the case will set laws for the industry, excuse their ignorance in this respect. I am not from the fact that the Law text as such is to blame there. Now it's time for this bill to come in. It's even here. " I Am Making All Things New, " No. 99/1993. It may now be that there is a basis for simply establishing new legislation through an appropriate and related report to help clarify what the Law is about. I'll take it as an example. The bill, which I'm not from being the most important person on the bill. Changes in 65th paragraph are required. I think, quite an important subject, i.e. distribution of tollotes. I find it shocking that in this legal paper, there is not much more detailed discussion about the changes presented here, especially in view of the changes made in some of the changes that have been made. 3 mg 65. g. current agricultural layer in recent losses followed by Supreme Court Court reviews of tollovate emissions. V.E.G. Aggressor now sits here in the hall, and he knows how to speak here at the end or maybe in opposition to me. Perhaps he could explain the matter in a few words and tell you what was 39 C.E. In fact, because I think it's not only complicated for players but it's also taking even lawyers, who may wish to recommend aquifer importers or importers, although at some time, to explain this law. That's what I'd like to point out about the format on the bill. That leads to the subject of the bill. I feel that in comments with the bill, it is missing considerably that the real objective of the bill and its long - term effect on the different peoples here in society is clarified. It is true that there are countless impacts, the cost of recently prepared livestock contracts. Here is a chapter on assessments of influence and, though, a few words were spent in the so - called equal assessment of the bill. What, though, is the long - term impact of these changes on the free trade in the country and the trade between countries, including the interests of the households? I find it shocking that such an important issue is not made clear to me for an unusual long time. It's, for example. there is no indication in the statement itself or in the bill on some significant organizational changes in the agricultural system. I mentioned the duration. I now have some concern with the recently signed agricultural contracts that would have to be agreed here at the General Assembly. But these livestock contracts are supposed to live for ten years. Then I'd especially like to refer to the 12th grade. The bill that is clearly intended to clear the secretary's clearance to make long-term contracts. This may be a legal point in Article 12. The bill. But I'm going to point it out. The commission to examine it specifically because I cannot see that this expression in this article actually works. It states that it is permitted to negotiate for a longer time at a time and to negotiate with individual livestock. These are the treaties of the government with the National Farmer Association of Iceland. Want to make a contract for a long time at a time? Longer than what? I ask. Yes, it is likely to refer to a one - year law that is in current law because the principle is to negotiate a period of one year. However, the current law allows them to make contracts for an extended period of time, and they have been made up about five years in the past, if I know it correctly. But I think I've handled it correctly, a respectable president, that ten years of contracts have not before met. I pay attention to such long contracts. There have been no grammatical arguments, in my opinion, that lead to the government's binding taxpayers in such a way for so long. Yet, I have a complete understanding of the perspective and stability of agriculture, such as other occupations. But about such an extensive change, I felt that at least there would be a need to be discussed specifically in this legal bill. It's not done. I agree with what has happened to someone else. Of course, members of the Parliament are hard to discuss the bill before there is the contract signed by the Icelandic government during the days with the European Union on mutual delinquency of tolls by inter alia. Agricultural products because some interaction must now be involved. However, people have mentioned it here, and it is very common to argue that it is absolutely impossible to eliminate tolls one - sided. They always talk about it like it's the biggest Sir. Yet, we have a recent example of the removal of toll on one - sided products in Iceland. In the winter, customs of imported clothing and shoes were taken away from which countries these products come, regardless of whether these countries have any toll on clothing and shoes. Pays were taken off here regardless of similar taxation in other countries, so we have the examples. I'll blow up all the talk that we can't take this toll off one-sided agrienvironmental products. I feel that it must be a goal that we should have for a very long time. Of course, we are to work at doing so in the near future so that we can do so successfully. I find it shocking, too, that in the bill there is no discussion of any of the many cases that the Icelanders have been doing during the past decade to protect, pressure, and distribution of customs. I'll remind you, for example. in three Supreme Court courts that died in January of this year, which judged the state to repay embassies for tollocrats. Some of these judgments may have been addressed in advance. But it doesn't change the number of cases that have gone not only to Icelandic courts but also even ended up in the EFTA Court to lead people to thinking that the system that it is defective, not just unique aspects of the system, but the system as such, i.e. The compulsion or stubbornness to maintain something special and specific system for import and free trade or agricultural trade. I can think of another judgment I can't see responding to this bill. It is the judgment of the EFTA Court that fell in February of this year that even the EFTA monitoring agency, ESA, had previously discussed and reached the same conclusion. The EFTA Court concluded that it is not consistent with the EEA law to prohibit the import of raw meat. Such a prohibition, as it has been here in Iceland, would be unjustified and considered unnecessary business barriers. I think it's such an important thing that I wouldn't have thought unreasonable to discuss in the bill how people intend to react to it, if they haven't already responded, which I don't think they did. I'd like to finally mention it, and refer them to what I said at the beginning of my speech, that I'm not such an expert in agriculture, but I'm worried about it, but that's because I don't have that much knowledge of the agricultural system as such. But I must ask, could it be that using the bill is recording the subsidies that were laid down by the national treaties at the time? In fact, I don't really feel that there's a big change in the subject with this bill. Rather, it's much more about to stir the same thing. Some of the above solutions may be taken up. But there is a review of a committee and a review at the council, and at least I'm going to put forth an effort to follow up on the information that the committee is going to receive in this regard. To say that I expect discussion about this contract to continue at the council, we look forward to the future expectation of some real changes in the system. I want to see that there will be a reduction in the share of the agricultural system and there will be greater freedom with agricultural products to and from the country than without the introduction of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u101	Madam President. About that question why. A member of the Parliament, whether or not, of the 1991 national agreements, is actually my answer, in order to stop distinguishing the production from domestic market from what goes on to the export of a supportive system of the above to draw up. Second, he moved. For this reason, for example, a member of the Parliament a series of defenses for one - sided delinquency of tolls or market fees, argued that, of course, Iceland should do so if it seemed like that, men would have cut down customs of clothes and shoes at the last year's. Was this a good example for you? A senator? Or it has passed. paritaprevir Andersen's assessment of how this would have paid off to consumers in the form of reduced prices? Rather, it was a sad conclusion. Half the money's paid off. Where did the other go? It is also a matter of view that if it is to increase the pressure of the store or much of it, it is now a little different. I'd like to ask you, too. A member of Parliament: is a man of some kind. In fact, a senator has to say that Iceland's efforts to obtain something in return are not to be replaced by tolls as a result of manufacturing in other markets to come here, e.g. From the European Union? Isn't it the view that we try to get something for our back, e.g. increase tax-free exports in skis or butter or lamb or processed seafood or anything in case of distribution of customs? Should we handle this liberal world alone so that if we are changing rules in our dealings with other countries of this kind, we do not even give an answer to any benefits?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u102	A respectable president. First only because of this system change, if I understand why. A senator right, we have a system of subsidizing export goods, which I think is absolutely impossible to do. Hv. A senator doubts that tolls will turn to the public. I completely disagree with him. It may be, and of course, I find it shocking if it has been found that products did not reduce the number of toll deductions at the end of the New Year's Eve. There may be some explanation, some raises, and other matters. However, the reduction in toll during the New Year's season completely prevented the possible rise in goods, or less or more prices. The important thing is that by delinquency of customs - we just stick to the clothes and shoes - the price, however, is more beneficial to the consumer. They'll know where the mud is. There's nothing to hide behind the fact that here are product charges and customs that are common consumers, the practical housewife who goes to the store, is not clear how high they have ended up since 1% up to 25◯30% on the most unlikely products. The Convention, are we supposed to use customs in contracts with other countries? Of course we should try to do so. But we haven't even been doing that. If so, let us do so. Then let's do it. I'm not worried if Iceland has a single-sided toll on imported agricultural products that you intend to survive and continue to work in Iceland or Icelandic goods abroad. Of course, some people also need to recognize the contract. What's our deal? Is someone making a deal with us about delinquency in some big country? If not, should we leave it to the Icelandic public? [[The president calls.]] Should we punish the common people if other countries do not want to negotiate with us for the removal of customs in Icelandic products? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u103	Madam President. Are foreigners being subsidized? What can happen if, after five years and perhaps ten years, the support of domestic production cannot be distinguished and cannot be accepted unless it is asked if it is asked after five years, or perhaps ten years, if the tax money of Iceland is partly reduced to the price of foreigners. The answer will be yes, because there will not be a distinction between the support that goes to the part of the production sold on the national market and the one that will be exported. This is not done with direct support to each litre or every kilogram of meat and direct payment because of the determination of every item. The result of ASI's assessment was that only about half of the price reduction has yielded to consumers, and has walked rather strong at that time but becomes ill. Yes, of course there can be some variables, but this is such a rough picture. For the tolls, it is my experience, and experience is not that countries in general are designed to eliminate tolls one side by side unless they get something in return. It wasn't my experience when I followed closely and participated in Iceland's behalf of the Uruguay Cycles of the GATT treaties of the International Business Agency. They were certainly holding fast to everything, and the governments held back to their right to use these devices and have it settled there that we can do so. This does not necessarily mean that we use it. But it's a little bit about being in court if you think you need it in international contracts. Iceland has since made free trade contracts, of course the biggest EEA contract, and then through EFTA with many countries. There's mutual agreements, a whole different story than this raw approach that we're just supposed to throw it away one side without necessarily wondering if we're getting anything in return. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u104	A respectable president. Of course, I agree with what. A senator in Iceland will carry out all his rights when it comes to taxing and so forth, much too much, of course it is. But this should not be the case. A senator's opinion is that a state agrees under the hat of the GATT or WTO to maintain the customs system? Isn't there something wrong with that exactly? Of course, we have every right to do so. What I'm saying is that a small Icelandic nation in the North Atlantic, all about doing business with countries west of the sea and east and around the world, is not supposed to let their subjects bleed because some other country doesn't want to make mutual agreements with Iceland, if that is the case. However, I point out that Iceland has made a two - side deal with various countries. A free trade agreement, like the EEA Convention, is the largest example of a big deal that's under way. Therefore, Icelanders, in my opinion, should give careful consideration to achieving agreements about the products we believe to be overly taxed in other countries. We are to ask for an opportunity to pay for them to be taken away in those lands. But since research does not succeed, it does not work out in my opinion that the nation is held in a straitjacket and the import of vital products is, in many cases, virtually toll out of the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u105	Madam President. There's damage to your head. 1st. That's the north side. If I'm out of the hall, I'm going to express my hope that he will address this discussion, because I find it quite different, if 1st. That's the north side. " The vast agricultural region is not getting involved, except for what is going on there. First, I'd like to say that there are many things you would have liked to have more time to discuss, including the environmental side and the living of the agricultural environment. I only brought it into my speech earlier today, but there I think we need to be further along somehow -- and often there's a good one. paritaprevir Bogi Hafliðason. I remind you in the context of a conclusion sent to a nature protection organization, i.e. Land protection, Iceland's Natural Protection Agency and Iceland's Forest Organization, in February of the past year, for this very reason, on the basis of the agricultural agreements, they rightly point out the importance of developing the agriculture into a good deal with the country and forming implicitly on sustainable use of natural resources, which are a view that all of us are to agree with, and to prevent the use of waste land. I'm worried about this deal, including... in this context because if there's an increase in production, then you don't say, "Preparation explosion." In the sheep trade and the rapid growth of sheep, it will not even be sure that it will be properly controlled in the areas where the condition of bait is best. It seems to me that the deal is not a problem in this regard. Second of all, I want to come in for a little bit. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson mentioned here well and correctly that when people criticize what is planned in this agreement for the support agreement, there is less suggestions. All of this has its advantages and weaknesses. All such supportive and operating systems are to the point that they are baited. They are always trying to find ways to go around them and to improve and improve. All mechanical systems and all limitation of access to valuables, resources, or benets have always led to the danger of getting access to valuables. But what can be done to cope? Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson requested ideas. I've been thinking about this many times and can come up with some ideas that I think could, in large measure, be tailored to these limitations. I simply mention housing support, i.e. that farms with some specific farm activities have some basic support. If people are sitting on the earth, truly living on it, and they are defined as farming activities or other activities that we want to care for, therefore culturally connected tourism or anything related to agriculture and agriculture, deforestation, or whatever it is now, if such an earth has defined the unsurpassed support that follows the earth and is natural that it is only useful if the earth is lived on the ground, will fall asleep if the earth returns to its surface if it is built again, there is no threshold to buy itself over the existence of the rights of the earth and will not be sold from it. The earth such as this could become something more valuable in business with such basic rights, but there would be nothing like a direct, hand - to - hand manufacturing right. Even the self - support system in the form of combustion for the production of bifocals could be thought of as a basis for a measure of physical support that would be inexpensive and inexpensive from the earth. Then adjustments after incidents could occur in some movement on additional support that was above. There are a number of such pathways that would cut many baits off. Of course, the same applies to the seabed. If any of the bases of the fishing warrants had been initialized, connected with the communities, not just the workers, then many things would have evolved differently. Finally, I'd like to use a few seconds left to enter the highest. Agricultural minister in one thing. This is the difference between terms of incorporation, one of the rights for manufacture in sheep and the other in milk. It's interesting to me that if sheep farmers want to give up their share of payment, they have the right to a solution from the state and a year to pay their bills. However, if milk farmers are going to do this, they have a right to a two - year bone graft. What is the difference? I don't think the price in business could have been inconsistent because when it comes to the feet of the farmers' feet, it can be balanced. [[The president calls.]] I don't understand how the sheep laboring is everywhere in the contracts drawing the shorter straw. Was the government the authority, or were farmers lying down while the flocks of these agreements were being taken care of? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u106	Madam President. In this matter, I would like to receive my second talk just to discuss the agreements of livestock and consumers. The views of those topics certainly conflict, so I find it very important to have as much consultation as possible and to cooperate with the construction of agricultural contracts over my head. In this case, there has been a lack. No party was called on behalf of consumers or on behalf of the labor movement. For any reconciliation to be made in this matter, most must be drawn to the table, since more and more tensions are likely to develop between national and capital areas. It takes understanding that there is a need to ensure that food security in the country and to live in as many areas as possible, including land farms for agriculture, how important it is for us as an island to ensure that it, including sustainability and environment, is not transporting food long distances with linked pollution and ecosystems. Somehow it hasn't been watched like that. I am deeply concerned that it will become harder and harder to settle, both because the production is not based on internal consumption, which I think is primarily related, and because it is leaving the production regime - it is headed for overproduction with related consequences. I don't want to see what's going to happen when it blows up in the face of consumers and states in one way or another. Then there is the agreement to be put out of the feeding system in both branches, the milk and sheep farms, which means that traditional families will be very anxious to attend, and it will be very difficult to protect their families. I think what Icelandic consumers have been willing to use a part of the public tax in support of Icelandic agriculture is that very, very wide and wide around the country. It also uses consumers. It shows up for consumers. Today consumers cannot tell whether the government's support is directly or indirectly involved in the marketing of sheep abroad. It doesn't sound like anyone here who wants to see that the exports will be reassigned, as was the 1991 Treaty. Hence, it is going back to the past and going to some toolbox that had been laid long ago because this proved to be neither the article nor the consumers nor the tax paid by the common people. This may be a conflict because I've been speaking for a major change in peristaltic systems in the fishing field. The changes spoken of during the last terms of a contract were to result in a loss of 20 years. This is to eliminate all production management, which includes the marine waste systems in these sectors, over ten years, and work very hard on a certain amount of sheep farms with a decrease in bone payment, which is at risk of evaporating farmers from their farms. [[The president calls.]] That's a terrible conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u107	Madam President. I thank the senator for this speech. I think it's very important that we speak clearly in this discussion. So I call for more information. paritaprevir The case of the Lilja Rafney Islands of Magnúsdóttir is here that she believes that the production has to be tailored to the local market needs. A large change in the work environment of sheep sheep culture was made a few years ago, with a loss of production control. Is the senator speaking, then, for reinvigorate the production management of sheep? I know why. A senator is concerned, as I and others have described here, with sick flocks around the country saying, "We'll have to face the fact that if we go that way, we'll have to reduce the number of sheep." That's when I'd be worried about the sick sheep farms.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u108	As I understand this, I'm not talking about taking up a production control of sheep farms, but about drawing a line between the marketing of sheep production. The current marketing campaign is good and blessed, and it is in the process of wanting to try to market Icelandic agricultural products abroad, although it may not have worked very well so far. But don't be mixing a market campaign with the existing stock agreements; I don't think it's too strong to mix and connect it in this way. If you have a successful marketing plan for abroad and you can get a good price for it, that's the best thing to do. But we shouldn't link it with these factors. The support is pushed down in the next ten years, which, as I know, can mean from 1 million to 4 million for each sheep's nests in these weakest areas. A senator knows where we both received an introduction from the presidents of the sheep farmers at the Beach and at the West. We know exactly what these sheep farmers are dealing with and what worries they are, that this means that they don't trust in the continued business of theirs, considering that the basis for the operation, with this contract, as he looks today, is smiling.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u109	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place. Of course, this is a very big case. We're talking about a lot of changes in agrienvironmental activities, the ones discussed here. We have these contracts to try to create the system in such a way that it brings forward the article and at the same time ensures that our country's settlements remain the most prosperous. Of course, it seems to each person when we discuss individual factors, transactions, and things. I'd like to start by saying, as shown in the contracts, that certain things are going to be implemented. For example, it will implement the restitution that is built into the contract. A building agency will submit its proposal at the beginning of the month of June, perhaps June 10 or 14. Of course, we put the export into the hands of experts there, to define where these ill settlements are and such. There's been talk of exports, and we only went on it earlier today. I don't think they're filming anything like that. Of course, the system is such that farmers get the strength to produce, and then they're the products that deline the product, what goes into import and what goes into export; they depend on the market at any given time. Last year, sheep and lamb were exported less than in 2014, probably because the market situation was different or worth it. In these numbers, we are talking about 3,000 tons and 4,700 tons, not to mention the side products that are also exported. It was shown earlier today that men should only reduce the budget, the export, but I certainly don't agree with it and think it's completely crazy. The price was then expressed. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon came into them and brought it to the attention. But as far as I know, we're talking about the same approach and the same price compensation that was made in 2009 and 2013, I think, there's no change in that in these contracts, no change. They came in for grain. It is assumed here that there is increased growth and increased emphasis on growing grain and camping so that something is mentioned, as it appears. Most of our activities have been discussed. Do we have enough discussions, and when should we consult such individuals and when should we not? On the ground, we're negotiating a bargain. We're making a deal with farmers about how they get paid and how they survive their farms. That's what we're negotiating about. In addition to this, of course, the fact that we are also negotiating products that benefit consumers. I mean, we're negotiating that farmers will become involved in producing certain products for a particular price, which is then their salary. Well, there's middlemen out there on the way. Can this be likened to something else we are doing today? I'm afraid to take any examples, that might catch a man's head. But who should come to the government's remuneration agreements, where even the tools, buildings, etc. are even negotiated. In the foundation, we're negotiating what farmers get for their productions. Instead, we get good products, which may fit our environment, without my planning to go very deep into it. It also speaks of the so - called 0.7% rule, and there's a reduction of 19 or 20%, etc. I'd like to wait and see how the definition will be on the farm support and before we go very deep into this test. There's been a definite calculation, but I can't remember the basis there. It also referred to the support of farms in pig farms. I'm concerned. I think that was the moment. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who specifically mentioned this - the senator, for it is important that support them in these families, not in the large drift we have seen in the media that even have money outside Iceland. I strongly emphasize that we are trying to direct our grants to those places. So if we go to talk about freedom and overproduction: from 2008, I think, sheep farmers have made freely, just as they wish. There has been no limit to what they can produce. As a result, I don't think this deal in itself increases the risk of overproduction there. Today there is overproduction of milk. However, there is nothing in current agreements to deal with or deal with. However, in these contracts - a particular method is drawn into the contract, reminds me, in four teams, I don't have it - that there is a risk of overproduction or something like that can be dealt with by a specific method. At least that's good. Is there an increased risk of overproduction being exceeded by this contract today? I think it's too early to answer. I don't think it's so good to answer that. At least the impact of the contract can be limited. Yes, now I remember, it's called a production balance expected in the contract. Environmental issues have been discussed. They may wonder, " Should I have put more emphasis on them? ' However, the contract refers to the country's vegetation resources, to evaluate them, and to try to find ways to increase them as well as increase production if they do. Also, the quality control is, of course, specifically referred to and so on. Then mentioned why. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, I think I was, a statement or an agreement signed the other day with farmers on climate issues, responding to them, climate-based agriculture and such. It has also been said about the customs and the tax agreements itself that we will discuss later, of course. But they named it here, I think, 39. par.; they are talking about milk powder, cheese, and other items, where prices are mainly being updated from 1995. Actually, something's not being increased, it's being updated. Then, of course, in the customs agreements itself, so that I can only bring it into my head, negotiate mutual greetings into the European market, and in turn, we are moved, but they are in most cases if not all of us really just live in the environment we live in today. Of course, if anything about the import that is currently being imported, it is not growing too much. Of course, this is about 39. par, of course, what's beyond tollvota. For the export; again just to cut down the stock. I don't think that's an option at all, because, of course, there are secondary jobs and other things on this production, whether it's now exported or sold in this country. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon asked us a good question about the terms of the solution in milk and sheep, what the difference was there. I'm just gonna admit that I don't know the answer to that question. However, it is important, and it is fine to bring it forward in the presence of the council. If there are any serious reasons why this should be, or shouldn't be, then it is important that it simply come out. Honestly, I can't answer that question any other way. Again about freedom and production. I'd like to say, of course, that the candidates did not sit somewhere alone and negotiate this deal, as they might be able to understand here. Of course, there were many more people involved. I'm not going to tell you what the deal would have looked like if we had figured it out, but it may well have been different. But I hope the future holds that those agricultural ministers who make this agreement will, in ten years from now, get a fair recommendation regarding the contract. Icelandic agriculture is, I think, in this case today, that there are a lot of traction tools. There are great parishes, I'd say, in Icelandic agriculture, both in product development and in all these related aspects. For example, one idea on the drawing table is to use the thyroid to produce certain foods that help those with thyroid problems. Like the fishing industry, there are remarkable developments and innovations in this article. She may be going to explode, as the fishing road did. I think these contracts are quite progressive at the same time as we want to protect agriculture, protect the excellent production in which drug use is lower than we know elsewhere. So I disagree completely with those who say that, in a single session, we're supposed to cancel customs for agriculture, that's something I don't think we can do. There may be areas where it may be wise to take toll one side, but it has many sides. We have to have something to negotiate, I'd like to say we have. Farming was introduced in our neighboring countries. Of course, you're absolutely right. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson mentioned here, that agriculture has a high degree of protection especially in Europe. There's a lot of dissatisfaction, and I know it, such as from Denmark, that there are major problems. There people struggle on the issue of their future. Of course, we need to be careful not to go that way. I hope the bill gets good publicity, which I know it does on a professional committee. Then, of course, it is a question of whether there is a basis for change, whether there is a reason for it, or if there is an explanation, etc. Certain things may need to be explained. But the main thing is that this contract is being made up at the council. Thanks again for the discussion that's been here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u110	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is respectable for a minister to try to respond and answer, as well as honestly to admit that he does not necessarily have answers to all the questions, natural. V.E.G. A minister has just arrived at these matters from a different direction, so I accept it as validated and the committee considers it. I would have liked to hear the minister's attitude toward the roofs I didn't have time to come in on, i.e. this finding that up to 0.7% of total milk support may be considered for each manufacturer. According to my math, if this became a personal control device and all dressed up in the roof, it could have become 143 in the country, and then it would have become quite a piece of gauze. But this is lower in the sheep trade, which is 0.4%. I hoped that cow farmers would agree to lower the roof of their side or the state, but that was not the result. V.E.G. A minister says, and I don't doubt that man's intention with these contracts is meant to be, in fact, the intention of man's actions. to build and cherish it in the land. But isn't it a little distorted when surveys show that the main sheep farms in the country, where sheep farms are next able to be a whole - year job, creating families full - time, such as Strandand County and the northeast corner of the country, aim to get worse out of this contract and lose 19% of their support during the contract period? Something has failed. I can agree with the highest. A minister to look for a variety of tools to support such situations. V.E.G. A minister mentioned rural housing costs. Is there a number of classes in the country that are living with something like farmers who are going to build themselves in rural areas and who have to face up to the fact that they have to cancel much of the basic cost of housing just on one board on the day they move into it? A new rural villa may cost 50, 60 million, and it's about 50, 60 million, but you may get a real estate estimate on the day they move into it up to 12◯15. What Happened to the Difference? As with real estate markets, people are stuck with him for life. If the highest. A minister could come into this with community support only in detail and then wonder if a single Mass is worth a closer look at if people are reaching the goals they claim they are taking in this contract. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question and for the speculations the senator brings here. If I recall correctly, the bee support, I take it as an example, estimated to be 100 million plus in the first year, and then up to 200 million, or 150,200 million a year thereafter. We will, in effect, consider how this money will be divided, and finding the most vulnerable areas is the project of a graffiti. I think that's what we're talking about. In his final talk and earlier today, a member of the body of elders pointed to the territory we know to be very weak. These are the areas mentioned by the senator, and these include areas on the east and in other places. This is going to be updated. It may well be that once we have seen the export, after seeing what the film will be like, some people think over the conclusion, over the image that faces us, I'm not going to rule it out, and, of course, I can't rule it out. Then we need to see if we can respond, whether there is a reason or not. You could say, if I remember correctly, that 2008 was supposed to end a special support which in itself is to these 0.7%, if we call this 0.7 area, but it wasn't done at the time. It was supposed to run out or stop, and I don't remember what that support was at the time, it's not everything. We're looking at this today as it is. We've got to figure this out, that's right. I believe in the contracts as if they are drawn today that the problem is addressed. If not, it is a picture that will need to be near.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u112	Madam President. I think it's very important to go over this matter carefully. Now we know this phenomenon with some regional approach in part mixed in this system. Some are familiar with the Year - to - year plot, often called at the back of the dog. A former senator and a dead associate, Einar Oddur Kristjánsson, who was especially considered in particular circumstances in the rural society where sheep income was almost the only profession. I think it's so small. Although this is a couple of hundred million, it is little and does not even help to counter what is obvious, some areas are actually missing, which is highly emotional. I'll repeat this with the reviews of how the Coastal Environment and North Germany came out of it. Only with respect to the manufacturing factor. V.E.G. One minister said that sheep farmers could produce what they wanted in the past few years or since 2000 and something. Yes, but the direct pay has been in line to the payment market, which has taken into account the domestic market. It has always been so that man has been able to produce beyond that, but he has had to accept the price of deportation and, in fact, the ground yields worse because of what needed to be exported. In the milk there is another reason. There, in their optimism two, three years ago, farmers were encouraged to produce as much as they could, and farmers responded so quickly that the production of the production was widespread, and now it is clear that men got ahead of themselves and did too much of that material. It also shows how sensitive it is and what to be careful about if they don't want to get into a crisis of the sort, even if it's only the impression that production has become much bigger than its needs, then you start to walk on the track and lower the price, etc. Of course, the producers prefer that there is more to it than overexploitation. These are the situations they would like to see, but of course, they have shouldered their responsibility to make sure that they are then protected. It is a sensitive balance that experiences teach us that very little can be said to go wrong, so that it cannot have a very damaging effect on the choice of farms, economics, and other parties. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u113	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. Senator, this is very sensitive. There is no need to react quickly when either one is missing or needs to be replaced. It takes time to put on it, takes time to increase production, and also reduce it. It may be easier to reduce, but if too much is high, it can be lower. I agree with what. A senator with that. However, I believe that there will not be so much change in the sheep trade. For the milk and cattle there is a law in the contracts to be seen. Again and again I remind you there are some reviews in these contracts, 19 and 23. It is important that all the follow-up, management, and management of the production, or these articles allow us to recognize in advance what that is then, 19, which needs to be addressed, etc. Again, I thank you for the questions that have come up and discussed. I know that there are many things that remain, and I make sure that the committee will carefully review them. Of course, the representatives of the Ministry and the Minister, if any benefits are made, will appear when the committee is called.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u114	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend the employment committee's committee's committee's opinion of bill making adjustments to the law on restaurants, resting places, and entertainment, No. 85/? 2007. The commission says, with permission of the president: The bill suggests changes in restaurants, lodgings, and entertainment laws in order to address changes in the composition of hostels and the development of a bedside event, especially in the light of a large number of unbecoming and unauthorized accommodations. A modified definition of homemaking is proposed by the management of registered and registrational sources. In addition, changes in the category of restaurants, including to remove the provisional market for restaurants that fit into category I and to disappear from the end of restaurant payment, whether it is large or small. It is good to tell you that the employment committee has done some serious research, called in a number of visitors, and the committee has also made some adjustments to the bill we believe is all for improvement. For example, an adjustment of the wording on B-jot 1 is suggested. which aims to prevent more than a total of 90 days in each calendar year from renting out the house. Thus, the overall number of days, whether renting out one or two houses, is determined. However, the committee proposes to add a price to the definition that the house can only be rented for up to 2 billion. K. every calendar year, i.e. That counts what has been achieved before, 90 days, or 2 million days. This change is vital because it is intended for simplicity for the tax authorities and for those who practice this activity. Second, it is suggested that home setting at home does not constitute a job building in the sense of Article 1. legislation on rural income. Therefore, the legislator's will is to have a home setting, as defined in the bill, considered not to be a job house. This also aims to distinguish between rooming and rooming, better than ever. I'm sorry to be the same as being at home, i.e. a section of home living in the unscrupulous apartments and rooms, such as here in the capital area, is about 25% in the sense of the bill. This means that 75% of the house rented here in the capital area and counting several thousand units, and is not registered, is under occupational status. It can be said, then, that a clearer way of homemaking is the easier thing to go on with those who do jobs without having permission and without being enrolled. Third, it is stated that a number distributed to the reporter should be visible on the relevant real estate, i.e. When it comes to the property of the host, he has a number from the authorities, which shows the traveller that his home is registered. This number is also expected to be visible on the websites of the authors. Change of 18th paragraph is being made. in the event that the county also monitors the use of a license number in the business Marketing Authorisation Holder, cr. 4 mg. 1 1. The law. Added also to Article 15. The bill to heighten the fact that not only a police officer but also a fireman's price can be set by involved measures as well as to add a reference to the security watch on the part of a firefighter who will have practiced against payment at large meetings. They are talking about large meetings, such as, if I am an example, a threshing floor in the Garden Town where Fire force of the capital area has cared for and maintained security, and has made sure that all compartments are unreflectable, etc. On this trip through a professional committee, the committee received some tips, including the head of the police in Reykjavík. It showed that since we had open food restaurant laws, it would be good to pause to add an additional bill in order to add a law on repairs against nude shows and the addition of nudity as stated in Section 4. Section 4. Song. This may have seemed to us to consider and enter the bill, for it is to us all a thorn in the eye that is being made out in nude at restaurants in Reykjavík and in the country. All of us are concerned that such activities and things that we do not care about are often accompanied by man's activities. Commenting on the matter, it was found that even in larger restaurants, professional chefs were not working. The committee received a review of the case in which it was pointed out that it was important to respect 1st. Section 8. Industrial law. The committee considers it important that the sector meets the requirements for professional education, but it has information that government work is related to education and the quality of tourism. In short, it is about that in the fast structure here, because of the growth of tourism, humans have been tempted to give discounts, e.g. from cooking, production knowledge, but as everyone knows about these matters, working at large restaurants can be very dangerous for people who are not professional, e.g. only because of the risk of cross-infection and a number of such risk factors. Of course, we should not assume less demands for tourists to have industrial rights than those who walled the hotel on the outside and inside and put electricity on it. It was suggested that the committee does not consider it desirable to give a discount of professional education. In comments with the bill, a law on property houses is referred to, pointing to the example of the Homing House Committee of Homes, indicating that there is no unusual change in the use of special property in a multi-established home. This may be of particular interest in these days, since the recent development is a regional judgment that was handled with regard to Article 27. the protocol for a real estate house, the agreement of all owners, before renting out apartments in large retail houses, i.e. that you are taking part of a job owner's house. This judgment will likely go to the Supreme Court and, as a result, become clearer than it is now. How interesting it will be to observe the manner in which this case is being carried out by precedent! It was discussed that if the bill remained unchanged in the law, the basis for the operation of those who now have the permission to live in the home zone was reduced. When they expire, they will no longer be included in the definition of homemaking and will need to be applied as a bedside home, and thus will be filled with an abundance of demands, potential costs, or inequities. The Commission is directed to the minister that in the Regulation there will be varying requirements for hosting, with respect to a number of visitors. I said earlier that one of the most important things in this case is to fence off those who have homework without being employed, but the committee says here, by permission of a president: There is a delay in renting facilities to tourists without a valid license and without paying taxes. The committee feels that there will be an urgent effort to monitor such activities. The committee noted that illegal bedside activity impairs law - abiding conditions, as well as the security of tourists. The Commission therefore aims at the government to implement a special campaign to ensure that all innations are being carried out legally, including telecommunications of police patrols to homes where renting is suspected without permission. This is the case that the person listed here has several times adopted, most likely three ministers. I give my special pleasure to be mentioned in the committee's opinion that the committee agree that such an effort is being made. Of course, it is intolerable for all of us that this industry, which is becoming so dominant and effective in society, should be built up by a black industry. We know that in the sector, i.e. At parties in tourism, people have expressed concern that there are those who do not share their laws as those who have everything pure. Once it has been clearly defined what is homemaking, what is a job hosting, it is possible to turn with all force - the government can do it, the tax authorities, the police - to make sure that the unsupervised are recorded. The employment and innovation agency is working on the bill to legalize the travel directives and the Committee encourages industrial and commercial ministers to recommend that accounting services be given to the government information about their trades in this country. This is done in many parts of the world, i.e. that accounting services return the authorities to their names the amount of money they have taken care of to be booked. This results in the relief of the tax authorities'survival to monitor, for as mentioned earlier, there are a number of people who need to be monitored. That is why it is urgent that this be done. Finally, I'd like to say: "It's a great pleasure to know that this matter has been established and established to such a stand on the committee, all of which are at this committee's party. In fact, Kristján L. Möller and the person standing here were absent from the case, but we both signed with a warrant in 4 mg. Standards for the work of the Council Committee of the United States. The committee agree on this opinion and strongly encourages rapid progress and will be agreed by the above changes made specific to the eight joint development proposals that follow the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u115	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A professional health committee for how carefully she has studied this bill. The mind with the bill was very good, but in many respects it was defective. Here we have 1,2414 changes in the bill, which is only 25 articles. Still, it all looks much better than before. Hv. In his extensive discourse, a senator from time to time mentioned the national flounder of the town of Garða to have faultfinding about large cooking places where he claims that there is a bad situation where people work in people who are not well - versed. Then I'd like to, for the sake of my presentation. A senator, says, would I rather come to a place of cooking that he, unskilled, would represent cooking in rather than a variety of cooks? That concludes my praise for the committee and what. A senator. I wanted to ask you why. Senator to 1st. Change of ideas. It changes the original bill in a way that rentable housing is not defined as a job building for rent that does not exceed 90 days or where income does not exceed 2 billion. K. Now I'll be talking about the bill next to the program making a comment at 2 million, but I won't do it at this point. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Why don't we avoid keeping this regular amount in the law and replacing it with the price? We know that this amount is being adjusted at regular intervals. Why don't we just knock it out once and for all, make a decision on a certain amount - I'm actually thinking that it should be bigger - and we'll tie it to a price? Then we don't have to stand here every three years and change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u116	Madam President. Thank you. A senator warms my words to and members of the Committee, but the reason for what he correctly mentioned here is that there are 2 million and do not talk about repercussions is in harmony with various legal fees. This number doubles what used to be. She's left 500 of you. K., as it was a few years ago, into this amount now. You should point out that, even if there's a bill that comes out later, like that. The senator rightly pointed out that those under this roll number, of the retailers to the value of tax tax, are getting an even significant amount of tax paid out, i.e. They have more tax taxes than taxes. There, though, is a number of billions. What led to the commission was to raise it so that of the 2 million, this tax would be paid a capital tax; it would be for simplicity, this would not be the case for the tax to be pursuing this one that is, if I recall, 7,500. It is also being thought that it is easier for the tax authorities to observe. Of course, you might think of tying this index, but this was a time, to nail that amount to 2 million. And, using proben, it's not just for this operation but for other functions, so that people who bake crabs in the garage are under the same responsibility, so I use examples. As I say, this path had begun this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u117	Madam President. The cost is not far from right. At this point, a senator said that this route was beginning to take him. This is the fourth time this way has gone. We have not always felt that prices are relatively stable, as they have been in recent years, from the moment we rise up like a bird phantix out of a bank crash. We also know that the council is not very willing to handle such matters very often. So there is always considerable time between and while this amount falls to real value. Within a few years, it may have become much lower than it is today. Therefore, I believe it is best to link this with the prices, this amount in the law, as well as the amount required in the bill that will be discussed below. This is my opinion, and I thought it was an explanation for a problem. A senator would be like this, just an explanation. I'm surprised that the precision professionals who are now serving in the top professional committee are not doing anything about this. If I'd understood the initiation point in counter-what. A senator's rights is the state of making changes like this in the first proposal and in the bill we discuss below to save billions of lives. I couldn't understand why. It's different to a senator. If so, and I do not comment on it, however, I believe that the matter should come out on a plain, so that the amount of money that is chosen, i.e. What might be there instead of the 2 million should be determined in such a way that it is clear that the Kingdom is coming out on a plain. I realize that there would have been some benefits to those who are so sweet, but in other respects it might be viewed as a tax rise proposal. [[The president calls.]] I wonder the Chairman of what? The employment committee should be in such a state. Hv. A senator may explain this later, and he may strike down the faint smile that now plays on his lips.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u118	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for pointing out the obvious fact that the country has become accustomed to it, since this well established government has been established, that there has never been a greater stability in terms of rising prices in these months. The other is so different, I'm sure, and I just think it's normal, and we're kind and obliged to take the case between the 2nd and 3rd. and review whether it is right to link this amount of value to tax targets so that it changes. There is nothing against it. Hv. A senator understood that doing this would be saving me because we were saving billions of dollars on taxation, perhaps because those who practice it still have the potential to make what they have done. However, that is, as I said in my previous answer, primarily on the matter - the whole number of people in this category, 7,500 or what they are -- that this may save the state a little while in observation. Monitoring may then focus on those who are in a position to betray if this is true and have bigger business and more attention is more important. But I'm sure that's a suggestion. The senator and the committee took note of it between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u119	Madam President. I'll take the tip from what happened. Skarphéðinsson That's a good point. The article refers to those 90 days, or 2 million, and 1. legislation on rural income, i.e. that it doesn't seem like a job building. Third, the registration number. Is it true that those in your home also get registration numbers? I don't think that's quite clear when I read the committee opinion. Then I'd like to think about this check. I live in a small community, and I know that not everyone is registered for a different length of time. At the end of the poll, there's an incentive to the government for a patrol campaign and all, but I ask, "How exactly will the number of days be kept in check, if you go over 2 million and not necessarily over 90 days?" I don't know how to say this: I may be renting through Airbnb, I rent through Booking, and I'm not renting through anyone but my e-mail or something like that. Can we get a hold of this? That's just what I'm wondering. How, then, can we do so? There are, as we know, a lot of trouble in this black operation in small and large communities, not just here in the capital area. I'd like to see the senator's perspective on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u120	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for such meditation. Yes, I understand that, so those who have a second report as a place to stay will have a number. It is not only to make it easier for those who have electronic surveillance to follow along on the accounting pages but also, as I said in my speech this afternoon, to give the keepers a list of those who stay in the room to make it easier for the police to see who are marked and who are not; as well as, as I said in my speech earlier, to give to those who are staying so that their home is registered legitimately. You're absolutely right, as hell. A senator says that it will always be difficult to monitor this operation at all times. The question is also, How much will be the cost of surveillance? Therefore, the committee began to try to simplify the matter, allowing two possibilities, on the other hand, 90 days - a lot of discussion as to whether it should be shorter, etc., but the landing was taking the 90 days but saying and/or 2 million, whichever comes first. By doing so, we thought that we were meeting as many people as possible because this group is not uniform, it is different. We were also thinking about, therefore, 90 days were set in, a prayer day and a place to stay away from the capital area, perhaps only for the 90 days to reach a climax each year. That is why we wanted to try to Salómon the late King Solomon's suit and try to find some tone that would cause everyone to enjoy themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u121	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this. I'm fine with the fact that this is quite clear because I think this may be a problem. I'm talking about, like, what's going on here. A senator went over, pointing it to industrial and business minister to accounting services--I understand that as a Booking and an Airbnb and other foreign hosts-- should return information. I don't know exactly how it covers oceans and lands, it may well be possible, and I hope so. It's important in this context. In itself, I like the changes the bill has taken. I discussed it considerably when it came to 1st. It seems to me that all the changes are for the good that are presented here. There's one thing I want to ask about in this context, too, so that it's clear: if I have two real estates and they're both marked with this number, even if one of them is my home and I rent it just a week a year, it still falls under this. It is referred to here as 1st par. The law on farm income, is that what we're talking about? If I had two houses today, and one of them has got the real estate fees for a job building, because there's been a number of days in rent, now it wouldn't fall out for that threshold or go back to traditional housing criteria. I want to express my satisfaction with this, and I hope that we can address what is presented here in the pantheon, that this judgment falls into the Supreme Court fairly quickly so that we can finish that phase. Of course, this is very shocking, and it includes what the senator reviewed regarding nude shows and manores or such things - house blocks have just been rented into parties and other items. [[The president calls.]] I think there's something we need to take good care of and monitor and take care of as soon as there's a judgment cut. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u122	Madam President. Of the encouragement given here in the rest, we were certainly quite impatient with the commission, since this relationship between accounting services and the government and the tax authorities was established. However, we did not want to delay this matter by waiting for the smell of that matter. Therefore, we put this encouragement in here, and that is why we also encouraged the Minister of Internal Affairs and Business Ministers that the surveillance should tighten the remaining ones of this fence around the home. We certainly hope that it will mean that it will reach a bond, if I can put it that way, on this activity, because, as I said before, it is intolerable for all of us that the profession under all these revenues should have this word on its own, outside, as I said before, that the organization of tourism does not want to understand the situation and that it has been cremated at meetings and in reviews. In terms of renting out two real estates: Yes, two real estates can be rented out, such as. A home and an apartment that you yourself live in, and each calendar year has a total of 90 days. Yeah, it's hard to keep track of. In fact, we feel that, and as with information on it, we have carefully observed the environment. But in terms of a question why. It's true that we're here talking about the real estate fees that will be much higher in the case of a job building.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u123	Madam President. All of this committee's employment agencies, and they have had good agreements on winning the case as best they can and trying to get their arms around the world mostly, or shared economy, that has been referred to often and is, of course, not just in Iceland but throughout the world, and is growing in many countries as this country. It has been observed that only in Reykjavík are about 4,000 apartments and rooms at home. Of course, it is difficult to distinguish between the timing of homework and the date of employment. I believe that by doing this in the way that this matter is now, to define it much better, we have managed to do it. Having these both, it means 90 days and/or 2 million to a maximum of available income or income, I think it's a very good landing. It was certainly a case of criticism from officials such as the farm service that much more stringent rules and licences were accompanied by the prospect of having a place of lodging as it is at the farm's travel service, and this type of homework would be rid of the cost of licenses than would have the chance of having as much money as that sector. Now, it can be said that this is a man's choice, e.g. in your homework, to enter this system as it is, that it is not classified as a job; but that it is within the framework of not being able to use a merit tax product, and that there is the possibility of having income up to 2 million, or that it may be in the value of the tax system where it can be used, and that it may be more practical for many to do it in a way that may involve other business that falls into this and will benefit them from being in the worth of the tax system. I believe that there have been a number of criticisms in these cases, as shown by the Commission's making of changes and strengthening the tenets that have been very gray and have been highly criticized, that they were mostly black jobs. There we are both increasing our surveillance and sorting it out so that it's totally clear that it's not a job, but it's a license unit and a number and something else that's gonna contribute to the obvious and the clearerness of it. What I thought was of great interest to the Committee's discussion was that of those pages offering homework, some accounting pages, e.g. In the United States, it is mandatory to inform the government of what goes through it. I think it's one of the basic reasons why it can be done in this country, to cover this, to get everything on the surface, that the tax in this country is being given such information from that country, less necessary to provide information and work under the laws of each country. It seems that in the United States, legislation is such that it is their duty to do this. We received information from the IRS that this was being done and that we were looking for the less relevant information to provide it. If it were not to be done well, it would have to be explained to Icelandic legislation that required the pages to provide this information. Today's accounting pages are self-important and have to be fulfilled, pages like this, but have not been here to provide information on the activities that are going through the pages of the books in the country. I understood that if it did not work out properly, it would be put to the test in a court case and put forth such information and whether it would be necessary to change the law to follow through on it. I feel like this is the core of it, of reaching out completely, and that taxing from this operation is driving itself and other activities are in beds, i.e. a different kind of rooming in a job, a natural competitive environment between them. This roof has only been raised, from 1 million to 2 million. I just think it's a very normal thing. There are 7,900 people today who make up their income of less than 1 billion activities. At least, but it's the norm today. To this day, credit can be returned once a year to a total of 3 million, which will be recommended in the following case to be 4 million. As I mentioned, several factors are being strengthened. There has been a feature of an apartment that has been judged by a local court that is bound to go to the Supreme Court, where a decision needs to be made on matters of great importance to living in an apartment. The law of an apartment has to be changed if the Supreme Court's judgment is the same as that of the district recently fell, but it works out that if an apartment use is changed, the license of other owners and the approval of more share would be required if an apartment building is changed to other uses. I also think it is very necessary to get conclusions on such rents that have grown in the spine and various criticisms but are here to be and in many respects very good because it in itself relieves much structure in a room, whether it is a hotel or a different kind of lodging, and may take off such impressions, since there are always mood swings and so can down swings. Such embezzlement may be possible, in itself and, of course, only to make good use of the existing facilities. I believe that it is of the good, and although not all sides have been calmed down in this matter, it is in the nature that there must be a bit of living legislation, as is said on many matters. I think the problem was well done at the job committee, but I suppose we're going over the case between 2 and 3. if you have to concentrate on something that has been discussed in the discussion right now. I am very pleased with the way a solid agreement was achieved on the job committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u124	Mr. President. Everyone came to some maturity, said Snorri Sturluson in famous terms about Erlingur the Skjálgsson, and the same could be said of why. The head of the profession and the head of the professional committee. In recent times, he has committed an unknown will for peace and reconciliation, so rich that it passes over to other members of the committee. This has made a great deal of calmness to the unity of a professional committee, and I could see the response. paritaprevir For my reasons, the Sæmundsson of Gerstein, in the past, is full of will to continue on the vast course of peace. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, chairman of the Committee, has passed away. Hv. paritaprevir For example, in my comments, Þorstein Sæmundsson said in a very positive way that it would probably be taking a second look between the 2nd and 3rd. and see if this is not a valid link to the index. I think that would be a very good thing to do. So do I, and that's my main business in this chair, Mr. President, thank you. Sæmundsson's executive for this positive subset. That's what we're supposed to do. I have to say, take the initiative. A professional committee has taken a positive view of this matter and has made countersaving proposals. This is, in effect, the second time on this day, showing that in some matters the Senate allows itself to take the initiative and to examine carefully the basics that come from the government and change them so that they can basically say. I think of the changes that were for example. conducted here and approved earlier today on a local community camp bill was a fundamental change in the whole committee and changed the case in a positive way. The same can be seen in the adjustments set out here that the committee is under the lead. A senator, Prince of Peace, Jón Gunnarsson, has taken a look at the matter and changed it in basic so that he will view it more closely. Of course, that is to be said to be true. True, I've put here some ideas that hang on to finding fault, but I haven't. The author of the case, the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, has helped me to see that the committee is fully willing to take into account the indications of the United Nations and has made it very clear that the matter will be reviewed between the 2nd and 3rd districts. I'll let me take it as a promise that this idea, whatever the outcome may be, will be examined and challenge both. An authority and chairman of the Committee to continue the course of reconciliation here leading to a previously unknown harmony in such a delicate matter as this. These were words, and this was my speech in the talk, thanking them why. A senator who now sits behind me and conducts the council for the positive subsidies that he paid for my case earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u125	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to a law from a professional health committee for a change in law No. 50/1988, for supplementary taxes, with subsequent changes, about the limits of tax obligations and the spending limit of the budget. The changes include minimum economic height in the cost tax system. In 1st. The figure is spoken of as going from 1 million to 2 million. Two. has a value of 3 million in value to 4 million. The bill suggests two adjustments in the sum of valuable tax laws that are designed mainly to reduce the pressures of the tax authorities and to reduce the burden of smaller parties with increased eye effectiveness. The increased flow of tourists to Iceland calls for a reexamination of the tax system and tax work. During the past year, there were changes in the law of No. 50/1988, on the value tax, which led to their tax domains being extended, which is now increasingly extending the activities of tourism companies. Increased demand for travel services of various types has led to services provided by tourists, e.g. with a significant increase in the number of sales of so - called homemaking. In many cases, however, the issue of the operation is relatively small. The contribution of tax authorities to small business users is generally costly and limited in taxes. I then refer to further reviews in the report on both the limits of the budget and the duration of the accounting period. A discussion on so - called homemaking or homemaking issues that we were discussing just mentioned came up with an opinion. As it was suggested, private people who went to rent rooms, apartments, or cottages to develop extra income from their possessions could do this for a maximum of 90 days each year. After our meeting with even The head of state made it clear to the committee that the limits per law on worth taxation, a amount of 1 million, would be sufficient to allow this simple operation to be transparent as planned. We can assume that someone who is going to rent out two rooms or an apartment, rents it for a amount of up to 90 days, is very quickly up to this 1 million, and has thus come according to the laws that are in value in the values of taxation and that would surely have led to the continued efforts of many to engage in this activity in covert shelter. in order to avoid entanglement, it can be assumed that this would have been beneath the surface. After our discussion with the representatives of the Ministry of finance and the head of the state tax, it became an agreement to change the threshold. In fact, the government tax manager's representatives said that they would simplify their whole surveillance with this activity we covered earlier, but only with all the other activities of the same nature, activities where individuals create small amounts of extras. That is why it was decided to go that way. We realize that it is not according to tradition that such proposals are being brought by a professional legal committee to change the tax law, but after our discussion with the chairman of the Council's Economic and Business Committee, which in general in this case, we the Ministry of finance were decided to follow this simple course because this is a vastly atoning agreement with the committee and transnational agreement with the members of Congress we have discussed this with. It will speed the trial through the council to do this. It's definitely a lot of progress, especially when it comes to IRS. The criteria are raised to 2 million, which means that individuals see additional income of their assets by working to that end, they pay on that capital tax product, but they do not need to be involved in the important activities of taxes. I reiterate that at the head of the state tax, this would simplify his entire scale in the IRS in general, not merely the function of which this idea arose. So I present the job committee for this case, a respectable president, and suggest that it be referred to accordingly. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-17-111.u126	Mr. President. I have been giving enough advice to the head of a professional committee on this day as well as to those here on the side of the business. Business committee. But I must add another rose compliment in his buttonhole. I believe that it is really a good example for him to cross in this way to the economic and business committees and put here a case that should have been within her general working area. But the case is so grown, and is a good thing, that I think it would be very well to see in case of trouble. A senator made it possible for more of the economic and business projects to be transferred to him. It seems to me that there is oneness and the peace of such a case that there may be the best way to achieve controversial issues. In all matters, I am going to express support for this matter. I believe the committee has shown a very positive initiative in their activities related to this category and is taking place both in this bill and in what we discussed earlier. I believe that there are many benefits that follow the ways the committee has suggested and that agree with what has happened both in the past and in the past. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, that this is likely to make it much easier for the tax authorities to attack the relatively extensive subsidies of taxes still found in this sector of tourism. We all know of things that have a glimpse of evolution in recent years. The comments I want to do with these are two. I'm not going to reenact the former, but it's actually the same as I did with the corresponding principles in the bill we discussed here before, i.e. I made a suggestion there. A committee examined between the 2nd and 3rd. if it were not willing in its order to give the index value, the 2 million. That's the first tip. The second is that I noticed why. The head of the committee and the executive of this matter said in one place in his own language when it came to swerve the decision line that a body of Congress could personally study what was said in a paper with this bill on its mark. When you do, it turns out that if the North countries are taken, there are set limits in most countries that are considerably higher than the 2 million here. I think that if they make this journey otherwise, they should be liberal in this matter. I would have chosen to see this amount higher. If men were on the other side of this route, I would have thought that the committee should have stopped at 33/4 million, I'm not talking about if the indexes do not cross the limits. We know that if they do not, over time, they decrease their real value, and by the way they smell, I feel, in effect, that this amount will be raised. It has been noted that the first issue will be discussed in a committee between 2 and 3. Here's the deal with the 1st. ... soI'lldirectit towhat. The head of the trade committee, Jón Gunnarsson's son, whether he is not in the spirit of the great reconciliation that he has now become president of this council, and was different when that fine manager was involved, to take it into practice, to see if there is no basis for reconciliation. Work committee, especially her chairman, and 4th. Smoke. n. in this important matter.
