ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 1569, about the stress of farming machines, from Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u2	Because of what has been discussed in a summary as two years ago. Congress members, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the Committee, and Guðlaugur Þórðarson, vice president of the Committee, have presented a report on the privatization of banks for the later president's wishes: The hearings of the legal committee are listed in May 2nd. that the head of the Committee presented a proposal for letters to be made to the State's Re-evaluation, the State's Economics and Bankiscations, which protected the restoration of the banking system and contracts with the names of the old banks. A smaller section of the Committee made comments on the procedure of the greater part of the case, so the letters were sent to the recipients in the name of the majority of the committee. The decision of the greater part of the Committee to obtain information from the above sources was based on a 26th paragraph source. Though it was not specifically referred to by the council, a conquistador is at any time allowed to address matters under its topic. At a meeting of budgetary committees May 25, the chairman reported on the information received by the Committee. At a meeting on September 12 of this committee. Its chairman introduced a summary of this report on the privatization of banks in later years. The chart was not submitted, but it was reported that it would be distributed to members of the committee later that day before the chairman and vice president of the Committee would introduce it to the press. There the president's position is that the summary of the budget and the news reporters in the name of a greater part of the budget for the privatization of banks in later years is not a political report, since the summary has not been formally treated in a judicial committee in accordance with the requirement of Congress. So I view the matter as still under consideration on a budget committee and not being paid off by the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u3	Mr. President. I'm going to take another step. I want in the highest. The President's proposal for a breach and a new election has not yet been scheduled or has already been granted as normal. At 57th. A law on the election for the Generals says: An out-of-establish meeting should be started as soon as possible after the election date has been advertised, but no more than eight weeks before the vote date. In other words, under normal circumstances a vote outside of a meeting is expected to last for eight weeks. Today, there are 40 days, not 56 days left until October 29th, so it is already over the time normally intended for elections outside an election meeting. I don't understand, if there's a conclusion that this country's going to be elected on October 29th, what's to be suggested for the breach and fixture of the Day. It is totally unacceptable to me that such a thing is not done, and it is obvious that it is rapidly moving toward a man - made vote. Ships may be going fishing for months, students abroad often have to drive long distances to jurists, etc. I'm critical of this waste layer. I'm asking the highest. President: Has the prime minister or the government not made himself available to the president to see that this is a coming up with a contingency proposal and a decision on the election day? I'm kind of asking for the best team. We're going into business with the President. We've changed the law on human voting rights abroad, it's ready, but it's clear that the whole system is waiting for a formal approval date. This is no matter how long this council chooses to work until the month's or so long, if it would be so badly, but we have a work programme that assumes that we will complete work at the end of the month. They leave less than a month to the campaign. But in any case, this needs to be observed and respected, but enough is enough, and then, of course, on the part of the European Commission, it was not a large form of elections. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u4	The president agrees with the need for such suggestions to appear in the first place. The president is aware that this is in preparation but, of course, cannot tell when such a proposal will appear. This is for custody. Prime Minister, like a whale. A passesman, but this is clear to the president and will, of course, put into practice that this will come true.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u5	A respectable president. Following the statement by the highest power. Just now, as the president interprets it as never really a case report but only a benefit or document, this document was introduced to a press conference as a report by the World Report. It is a serious thing, a respectable president, when the name of the council and its institutions are abused in a way that took place there. This report has never been discussed in a financial committee. Its actions were violated by the above - mentioned court, which is also a serious matter, and I don't speak about when the name of the council is referred to there. You must be calling for a response to the highest degree. President on this aspect of the matter. [[The president calls.]] It is inexpensive to say that this is not a report but a document. [[The president calls.]] The president must have wondered if members of Congress can use the name of the council in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u6	A respectable president. I understood a president before that he believed that the two senators had gone all too far, far beyond the authority they have in order to exercise their authority as chairman and vice president of the II Parliament's legal committee. That's how I left the President here. He claims that this is only a document that is still under consideration in the committee. I'm sure they didn't introduce it that way. When you read this report, it's just that it was presented at a press conference as a report of more of the legal committee. This was done inside the Allegis Committee, inside the Fundament Committee. That's where the media were called. This is a serious matter, and the president can't handle it, so it was just this kind of presentation of a document that would be discussed in the Committee. And when it has been discovered that the chairman of the Committee wrote about the special e - mails, he was careful to look out for the main subject of the report, h. paritaprevir þm. J. Sigfusson, should not be allowed to see this document in the processing process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. This is where the council has been abused. [[The president calls.]] I'm glad to hear that President feels the same way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u7	Mr. President. The one here is trying to figure out the words of a president earlier, what is really involved in them. Now, in the name of a large section of the Committee, the head of the budget panels held a press conference and produced a report. This report presents a serious challenge to individuals. If they will seek justice, where shall they seek? Sounds like the highest. A president is saying that the General is not responsible for this. There's no use turning to us. We are not responsible for this whole act. The committee's obviously abused. It is clear and clear that individuals are making such accusations, and there they must seek their own way of doing things or carrying a hand for their heads in some way. [[The president calls.]] Am I clear of this, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u8	Mr. President. The report, or I don't know if it's the right thing to call that report, was submitted on the part of the crew. The members of Vigdís the daughter of Hauksdóttir and the Guðlaugur - god of Þór Þórðarson, son of Thord, had news of the media and had it in their own hands. So I've been thinking about what to do with the council. If there were now a code of ethics, then c-alongs will say 5. that you should not bring reproach on the Council or damage its image by its conduct, the E- force says that public status should not be used for personal gain or for others. [[Upwards: And d.]] And so is D. There is a premise that prevents people from giving a hand in the charge of the charges, people in this town who have a lack of respect for their work, and that may result in appeals. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the President to make a retraction of this document, and these two senators are asking the people who are being accused of public apology. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u9	President. I want to thank the President for his explanation of the case. It's often that when people express themselves here that you have to go into some interpretations and that I would have wanted this to be more clear, because the people who are born with such a heavy load were not entitled to protest and they have not been given the opportunity to carry a hand in their head. It would be the most natural thing to do if they hadn't. Congress officials responsible for this would simply state that this document, this benefit, was dead and unmarked. I'd also like to say that it's very important when it's said that there's a larger part of the committee, then, in that part, it can even be members of the smaller section. The majority of committees are often referred to for various matters, and there is nothing to do with the greater part of government or government opposition. It is very important that this issue is brought to a conclusion that it is completely clear as to the responsibility of these woes. Councilmen are and what the responsibility of the council is to individuals who are severely accused, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u10	A respectable president. As those who have observed the discussion never existed, and no individual was mentioned in the official or expert sector, criticizing officials or experts. I call attention to the fact that it is us politicians who are responsible. That's perfectly clear. I hope people don't change that speech because that's where we're at. I'm sorry if what that shows up, and everyone in the process is aware of it. It's been published in the media many times, it's passed by the public and the council. Because the information presented here is relevant to the public. Now everyone who has discussed these matters has said that they want an independent party to review this matter. And speaking of the respect of the council, let us see if we must be in full agreement to put the matter into place, as has been the will of a greater part of the legal committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u11	A respectable president. Of course, what's going on there is very unboyable behavior at the moment. Councilmen who once were predominantly promoted in the government's so - called economist committee but are now primarily dealing with the truth by means of repeated attempts to mislead information and compromises prepared, just by independent sources, to refute repeatedly, by the researchers who have discussed the above charges. But they must continue to be denied. That's the rhythm stuff that's going on. This strategy, then calling it a privatization of the banks of the second, is a weak attempt to make it appear that the measures taken here following a collapse are somehow comparable to the court date of judgment that took place in the government of Independence and Progress when banks were private. That's even less humiliating.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u12	V.E.G. President. Today, the President of the Generals has made the final sale of this ◯ report, which has been called, and it has been identified as not a report. In effect, the tomb was taken a year ago. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, of a different course than the sharp one. paritaprevir The stone mask J. Sigfússon, who is severely accused, reviewed the same matter, and found that it is quite different from what one learns in the report entitled on the back of the dog. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. Most of the worst of all, there is an unwary government official who cannot bear a hand for his head. For they themselves say that these are detestable things, the reproaches, the insults. But I like to carry volleyball from the head. paritaprevir Because Þór, the Þórðarson - fearing son of Thor, has apologized for the wording. However, there are other members of Parliament who are responsible for this report, including one of the council vice presidents. Is it not time for these four senators also to apologize for the wording of unwary officials in a city that cannot carry a hand in front of them? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u13	A respectable president. I can't really say anything. There was never to be blamed for anything that was in town for unquenchable officials. Wait, I'm sorry, did you guys accidentally slip into the report? By permission of the President: The report shows that the negotiations went all out of the way to make atonement for the crew by handing them possession of the banks. Did this totally fit in with the report? By permission of the President: The Department of Economic Affairs and the Sentencing Bank handed property to the claimors on a silver plate. What kind of phrase is that? Did that fall from the sky? A respectable president. It's like a whisk. paritaprevir " When the report was written, " says Gullful Þórðarson, "that he was not self - centered? Here are reproaches on the above page by page on people whom he says they should not have accused of anything. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] These members of the council should admit that their hatred for what is bad. þm. Steingrímur J. Sigfusson took too many people with him. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Just acknowledge that and that this fleece that was introduced is a meaningless document. [[The president calls.]] I wish that the rest of the members of the committee who are written for this, whyhv. þm. The Valgerður daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, and Paul Paul Paulson, pray with dignity as well. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u14	A respectable president. The members of the administrative body at what time are members of the Parliament. The legal committee must come up here and explain their position on the matter. If they sit and keep quiet, they're willing to accept what has been done there. There was never a time to criticize government officials, saying why. paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson. You see, that's the thing. It probably stood to settle political issues and thus use the name of the Synod in political warfare. That's a serious matter. The senators do not simply owe an apology to the individual, they owe the General Assembly of Iceland an apology for having abused the name of the council in this way. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I understand the initial resolution of the Council's President so that he is actually, in a mountain language, to judge this document dead and unmarked, but he could have said plainly and had to be in effect demanded that this document be retracted and never be seen here in any more council hall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u15	President. I can't help but agree with all that's happened. Kjerúlf That's what the son of a Þorvarðardóttir said. I find it hard to believe that there's still some way in which there could be some consideration on the Committee that a special research committee should introduce this essay as clearly indicated by the above words. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór... [[Thordson.]] The son of Þórðarson, for it shows that this was actually about one man, whose. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. I feel very serious when it comes to using the council, abusing the council, in this way making political cones, and making some speech for the campaign. That's not okay, Mr. President. The Senate's put a lot of weight on this. I wish for this document to be reduced from its history.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u16	V.E.G. President. I think it's quite remarkable to hear a man name some particular members of the council as more of a legal body. I'm just going to say that I haven't made a promise yet. I've said I'm reading this report. But listening to what is presented in these sales makes you wonder: " What can't be exposed by going deeper into this matter? ' I think that's a good reason to do that. I think humans must also be able to unite in that. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u17	A respectable president. If I understand why. The senator who spoke before me correctly, there may not be more of a share to be put on the budget. Apparently, then, it is up to you. That's part of the problem. A respectable president. If we lose all names and forget how shocked we are at these other preemptive tactics, we should just look at what kind of example that will set for the future if the Council leaves this unconcerned. It says a larger portion of the budget-to-be-or-be. It has meaning for the public, for the media. What will they think? Next time more things go wrong. For the press to consider: Hmm, maybe it's not a public document, maybe it's a two senator's work plan, or possibly five? We'll see about that later? A respectable president. Such an example cannot be taken. We cannot allow that. It's not okay, and it doesn't mean anything to pretend it's not about anything. This is not about the content of the report because the content of the report is not even found in general sleep. Why? [[The president calls.]] Because this is not the General Report, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] Form is important, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] A respectful president, of all men, should agree on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u18	The president is pleased to have an ally in support of the form.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u19	A respectable president. I have to say, I was surprised when it happened. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's selection asked earlier why not go over the matter. Why should this issue not be considered? she asked. This matter has been examined. [[Foreground on: No.]] Her group brother examined it. He returned a report to the management and monitoring committee more than a year ago, over a year ago, where he concluded that nothing was unusual about what was done when the bank was agreed on. It's just that kind of thing. The Senator needs to keep an eye on us. Then she needs to tell us what her attitude is about this matter. Is that what she's saying? Is she gonna be reading this over the weekend? We have the right to know why. A senator to this matter and all the conduct of her companion. þm. Guðla Viðr Þór, and what. þm. Vigdís Hauksdóttir has organized the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u20	A respectable president. This is part of a useful discussion. But there is reason to thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice for saying that she's not doing this job, or what to call it, must be raised questions about whether it's over the head of a greater part of the budget in case of an emergency. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice is not doing this. I must call for that. paritaprevir Haraldur, son of Benediktsson, who sits in the hall, knows if he is involved in this report. paritaprevir In turn, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, making a report or some type of workaid to provide more of the legal committee. Or whether there is no greater share in the case of the committee. I'm calling for what? paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson knows if he is involved in the fault presented here. local officials and experts who have served in the interests of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u21	A respectable president. I think this is very important, as we have learned here that we are getting a clear identification of the total share of the legal committee on this matter. I didn't understand why. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice when she arrived on a talk chair. That's what I'm talking about. A senator of this matter with the greater part of it or not? This is one of the questions we have raised in our memory. I feel as if others were shocked by the use of a financial committee for this purpose. We have certain ways to investigate. If we want to investigate a matter, we can put it in a specific process. But it can't be the way for the rest and these members of Congress to come together and take out one report. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir could write many of the reports and hold many press conferences. Is that how we're going to work here at the council? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u22	A respectable president. As we have seen here many times, there was a why. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son covered all the other materials and did not have the same information that appears in the report, with the package leaflets. Why not? It's new. It's like the highest. A respectable president went over earlier has been working on this for the past few months and in longer periods of time. This was booked in particular this spring months. There hasn't been any secret about it. When people come--and there are the Piranites who come and say, "Get this information out of here, they can't be seen at all." I think it's something special. [[Up front.]] I draw attention to the fact that here all emphasis is placed on the form while various media officials have said that they probably like an independent party to look at it. I propose that we do. [[The president calls.]] That should be a reasonable agreement, considering the entire discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u23	Mr. President. It was a natural error on the part of a president at the outset when the so - called Wazowski case was taken into the council, it is clear. But I have to ask. A member of the greater part who came up here in a talk chair, Vald from Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir, questions: What about the presentation of the case? What about the language? What about the errors and how the matter is presented? Is it true that she and Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, Páll Pálsson, are they all doing this saying that is there? The charges are the same as Víglundur said, they are widely distributed over the report, that is clear. There was a meeting this morning on a budget board. Why? In the memory of the section, we have requested answers to who came to our report, to which service was purchased, and to whom. The answers to these questions need to be answered. Hv. paritaprevir Gulgiful Þór Þórðarson said that it was not a moment to read through this, so I can't believe that the members of the greater section need much longer, but it reveals that they had not read the report presented as a report of more part of the legal committee when presented at press conferences. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That, on its own, a respectable president, is worthy of contempt. And I certainly hope that the chairman of the budget board, which is not here, whether it has documented alibi, I don't know, there's a lot to discuss in these days, retracting it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The president is to make sure that this will be retracted and they apologize. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u24	A respectable president. Hv. 4th, including Smoke. As a result, the Piratars were fighting the report. I'll call attention to what. A senator says that piranha doesn't even have a vote on a budget board and has nothing to say whether it is published or not. Hv. A senator is quite free to publish what he wants without the permission of the pirata, and he has, in fact, done so and will be responsible for it. However, it is relevant in the great General Assembly that this is followed by a body of Congress when it is made up of evidence from the General Assembly. I challenge it. A senator is putting the report into a budget committee and getting more of it and publishing it in the name of the Generals. I challenge it. A senator doing so and seeing what the difference there will be between that report and it's a document or evidence or whatever it is out there somewhere, somewhere in the city, not here at the General Assembly. This is where it's about form. That's important, Mr. Honorable President. In effect, though, on this report - well, we can scram when it's some piece of paper at the World Council. Hv. A senator can offer what he likes likes to the rest of us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They don't have to let that happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u25	A respectable president. I want to thank the President for saying that this is not a report. I also want to thank him for being clear about the real situation. Congress officials take the matter up in the name of the Generals and a greater portion of the legal committee. I want to pray to the highest. The president to speak more clearly because his statement is that his position is being abused on the Senate budget and position to promote political and professional prejudices. Because of it. paritaprevir Gullless Þórðarson speaks of the fact that we should talk about the content of a matter, so let's do it. Then I suggest what. A senator is now gathering these great apostles of right and wrong in a greater portion of the legal committee, collecting more of them on this matter, as it were. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice does not trust to support herself now, gather more parts on the matter, and more of the committee will clear this up from the Council Committee, and that will get a position as a Senate document. þm. The god - god of Thor Thordsson, the Sjálfstæðisflokkur Party, the Valle of Valgerður's Daughter, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, and the forward party brought to eternal shame. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u26	To answer, financial and economic ministers, Education and Culture Ministers and Industrial and Business Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u27	Mr. President. Today, the common conclusion of unions, state, and rural society on the country's future pension plan is established. This is a result of a broad cooperation, and now the General shall consider the matter and examine it from all sides. For a long time, it has been discussed about the barriers of unchanged conditions, both for individuals and for government funds and the commitments of public citizens. It has a high cost for future generations if they do not respond. Thus, in the 2009 stable covenant, a agreement was made that the government, rural society, and the workforce take together the pension business and shape the vision. As a result, a team of workers were appointed to agree on the future vision to reconcile and equal the rights of a general and public labour market, that the system would be sustainable with age-related rights development and a uniform pension age. Then the reconciliation took place on the problems of the public funds and on those who have already earned their rights in the present system. In this matter, attention must be given to the interests of both those who are already paying on the system and the young generation, the future servants of the future. It's the arrangement for the current funds, but I'd like to ask the highest. Economic and financial secretary how the rights and benefits of the next generation have been ensured.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u28	A respectable president. Thank you for your excellent review of this big case. I'd like to mean that this is the largest single step in late Iceland, developing the workforce model toward things that normally happen in countries that have lower inflation and thus lower growth levels than we have used to in Iceland. There have been many who have come to that work and have thus drawn this chariot. I want to thank all of them especially. This question is, What was done specifically to ensure future generations' interests? In this regard, perhaps the first thing I would like to say is that we must always want to live in a multiplicity pension system, which is sustainable, where humans have their place in the promises of pension rights into the future. It is where there are so many other European countries that, unfortunately, there have not been any luck to put aside their future pension commitments but rather, rather, based on a flow system. Then, as the years go by and fewer and fewer children are born, fewer and fewer, the load that goes with the population of pensioners begins to give in. In the end, many of the promises each day made about the pension rights that far into the future will never be fulfilled. What we're doing here with the full funding of the system and by ensuring that the biofuel rights of the A ER department and the bridge is sustainable is not making promises that there is no basis for.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u29	Mr. President. In such a large agreement, it is very important that the traditional political qualifications not fall into place. In this case, representatives of the payroll accompanied by elected representatives of state and rural groups from all categories. It's the highest. Don't Ministers agree with me about the fact that we need to take care of the situation and study the grounds and assess the consequences, but at the same time show respect for an agreement that has been established in the complex issues of the economy and the terms of the people in the country? The total cost is about $30 billion, and a total of over 100 billion will come from a financial fund to the pension fund. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Can billions of dollars be found in the economy, such as by increasing inflation, and is it even necessary that the pension fund be authorized to invest on the extracurricular grounds?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u30	A respectable president. At the same time, I would like to have what I've said in the past, to provide many other important matters that are relevant to the future and that are related to this agreement. There I would especially like to maintain what the government budget has been fighting for so long that we can start working on pay insurance for public employees in good standing with the general market. The cost is now up to date, and all aspects of this matter need to be considered well. I agree with that. Certainly, the contribution made by the State is enormous, especially when it is made by monotonous contributions. It must be remembered, though, that this was a commitment that would have fallen upon the Kingdom in the future. In itself, no new promises are being made or paid for something that had not yet been promised. It has been the expansion point for the entire time that the rights should be intact by those inside the current system and that contributions would be included. to bring up their rights, as they have shown us unfundable in the budgets of the past few years. Regarding the need to bind this money, it will be taken into account when deciding how the State will contribute to it. [[The president calls.]] You're absolutely right. A senator says that it is important that the money be bound and not go out for the sake of filing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u31	A respectable president. It was interesting when a group of Bjarts future voted against the livestock contract because there is nothing so often that the senators are on the red button, votes against matters. Most cases go through with the approval of the smaller part and, in a very number of cases, the smaller part will sit by. When members of Congress have a serious disagreement with the issue and do not want it to go through, they are on the red button. This too was done by a group of Bjarts in the future as a vote on budgets for 2014. The vote was just before Christmas 2013, when the budget came for payment, 20 billion. At that time, the only group on the red button was the future. We had spoken against that arrangement in the campaign, perhaps not necessarily elected to it, and we took a clear stand against that budgetary fee. To us, that was a big joke. 80 billion remained unremarkably distributed to homes and to countless people who in themselves did not need this assistance, subsidies from the State. We've been discussing both the budgets of the past few years and the financial agenda the enormous need for infrastructure, the road system, i.e. The transport, we're watching education, on average, putting less money into education than the neighboring nations, if we consider this as a proportion of GDP. Granted, only health matters have been improved, but after a collapse the need for infrastructure was tremendous, and it is still there. The highest. Ministers of finance enter the campaign, stand firm, and say that these 80 billion were well spent? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u32	Mr. President. It is obvious to all who study domestic debt development and to compare with other countries that we overlap. We have managed to get the homes' debt to a place similar to the one referred to before the turn of the century. None of the northern nations are similarly successful, domestic debt has become a special economic problem in many countries around us. Therefore, I am particularly pleased with the success of this government, which in itself was not brought by the correction procedure alone, but which helped, along with the rest of our efforts, to maintain prices, to provide conditions for the promotions that paid the purchase power, and thus have been raised by the real estate market. Since this has been economic growth, all these things have helped. The debt is far different and better than it was at the beginning of 2013 and in the wake of the election that took place in the springtime. We're gonna go for a second. In itself, a candidate may disagree about whether or not there was a real problem. To me, it was obvious that the homes'debt status - all the behavior of the homes in the country was seen to such an extent that it had been so severed by a higher debt and in some other ways that it became necessary to react. They were monotonous measures. It was money that went from government funds to the homes of the country, their right standing, and their changed status for the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u33	A respectable president. V.E.G. A financial minister is expected to know that domestic debt had begun to decline before the operation. House prices have gone up. There has been little unemployment, so domestic status was actually improving significantly. This operation did not need to be performed. Then I would also like to point out that homes are using the education system, the road system, the health system, and all these systems that we have to finance. Where's the top? Secretary of finance finding money in it? True, the person may not remain here, but where should the building of the wood be made up? I was told at one time that the coin that went to the internal cost of this complex operation was about 600 million. What could we have done for them? Suppose we took them and told them that we were going to put them in the affairs of those who were pleasing us. We could have solved all the gangs with the 600 million. We could've put them in the high school system. It was merely the cost of the complex and Communist operation. It is not the State's job to pay off its private property and can never be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u34	There is no doubt that the operation was successful. It has been claimed and held at the time that all of this would eat up itself with increasing inflation, and people were concerned that we were about to see a thawing. [[Up front.]] What a joy it is to know that better homes have not made one commit again and that he has made room for greater personal consumption. In recent years, we have seen the changed behavior of the households compared with what used to be home where there has been a new scope. Apparently, they learned from what happened here. Saving's getting bigger. In fact, when you take it together, your operation has done better than we would dare to hope. On the other hand, you are absolutely right. A senator brings up the matter here, and we need to have money in the next few years to add to our investments. That's where we agree. It is the key to maintaining the power and growth in the commercial world in Iceland because it provides a wealth of money to support our long-term financial plans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u35	President. Today there was a presentation of a very large change in the pension system where this system is being recovered between public employees and others. I've tried to study the case, I've been sitting in two meetings with some sources from the Ministry of finance, and I have to admit that I'm a little worried that this council should go through. I'd like to ask the highest. If this is a matter that I understand that most categories with a history in Icelandic politics support the matter's being properly treated for reviews and that any lures were involved, according to the recent reviews. It's the way of all the council cases that come in here that they need a change. On the contrary, I do not have this request to try to break the issue, but I think it is very important to be able to be absolutely sure that this is not cutting rights and that this is really going to work out well for everyone, including those who are getting new into the system. I'd like to hear the highest opinion. Secretary of finance whether he has any expectations for this to be over in a week.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u36	A respectable president. I believe that the matter is mature and that there should not be any neglect in taking it to any level of material treatment, if any, due to the fact that all major stakeholders have and should have studied it in them. The official organisations involved in this case, BSRB, BHM and KI, are members of the agreement and have been working on the case for a very long time, in fact, several years. For these reasons, I think it is very important that we finish the procedure. If the Council fails to finish, the government's law says that its pay is to be raised in NEVER. It is a procedure that we have avoided in recent years by making a special preliminary decision or procrastination of that law. I think that would be a loss for the delicate matter, as mentioned here, of enormous interest if there were any hesitation at the council, at last, when years of contracts are closed. Other than that, I want to thank you. A senator for taking the case in such a positive way. This is in my mind an extremely important matter that concerns many long-term interests and is actually one of the cornerstones of a new work model for Iceland. Better practice and development of collective agreements into the future are in my opinion the basis for greater stability and lower inflation and growth in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u37	President. I appreciate the answer. I would like to ask about what was said in the Supreme Case. Minister: How long does the provisional principle last? Is that sufficient for us to find a compromise, if it is necessary to handle the matter in just a normal routine? I have to admit that I feel uncomfortable speeding up such a big subject through the council without saying anything about it. It might be solidly agreed that the matter lived between members of the council - it is not very long between the end of the council and the launching of elections. If you are unable to get the case in such a way that you can do it professionally - one thing is to want to finish it quickly and another to make sure that it is professional and enlightened. [[The president calls.]] We must make such an informed decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u38	A respectable president. In itself, I have nothing to add to my first speech. If that is the case. A senator here mentioned we should extend this council. I think this case is the fact that we shouldn't let it happen that the council will be completed without having finished it. I remind you that every key stakeholder in this case is an agreement and has taken up the case on his own, introduced it, and made part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u39	Mr. President. I decided to direct this inquiry to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. Looks like she's stopping at his department. If the highest. A minister has looked at the media today, and he sees that it presents a serious problem with the Theocratic Ministry School at Akureyri. If I understand correctly, there are probably 12How many schools in a crisis, and it's interesting to know if they're all being treated the same way, i.e. ... that paymentwas stopped. I had a word with the highest. Education and cultural minister on the status of the Academy of Education in Akureyri in April, and this was the time to address the situation. Now the school owes about 24 million, and it said that the debt had been distributed over the next two to three years and to the highest degree. A minister of education would have made that agreement with the school. I'm asking the highest. The secretary of the budget is whether the agreement is not real and whether the Minister of Education has made some agreement that did not conflict with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The schools are expensive schools, food departments, and industrial departments, as we know them. Now you can't buy a set. It is clear that next week you may need to send students home without funds to pay bills, to do service contracts, and to do so. This is for remuneration, they always come from the government box, but it does not work that schools that think they have not fully met the agreements - the well - known algorithms have been discussed here, and it seems to have been a substantiated but not fully paid. Then it's going to be on top, so I'm going to ask the highest. Minister: On what shores? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u40	A respectable president. It is true that earlier this year an agreement was made with a highly educated educational institution because of the financial problems she was experiencing. In effect, there was a two - side agreement that underlined a rating in 2016. On the part of the school, what was discussed in accordance with the agreement has not been fulfilled. The school position is worse than it should have been agreed to. The main reason and only reason why the situation has come back that men tried to escape a few months ago is because school has not been able to live in its own part of the agreement. I'd like to review in this regard that when a new government began in 2013, the situation at high school was that a student's contribution was around 900,000. In the meantime, we have made arrangements to make sure that the donations are rising. They have risen to a student at about 900,000 times. to about 1,100,000 a.m. If, in accordance with the current budget as agreed by the General Assembly, in the coming years, we will make the contributions so much better that they are going to be about 1.6 million per student at the end of the later and near the end of the strategy. This sums up the emphasis the government has used to improve education in the land, to increase donations to students, and to increase the education allowances for their roles. Then, like what we have here, we receive outstanding examples of my explanation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u41	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. There are probably 12 schools, even 15 even in a similar situation, i.e. With a tilt in the year, and I ask, What is their place? Do all schools sit at the same level in this respect? I'd also like to point out, as I said, that the rates aren't fully improved. The teach-off is required for e.g. The Academy of Education at Akureyri, about eight different positions, and that is not acceptable. The school is not enabled to finance this. That was a lot of money last year. School problems need to be resolved now. No higher pressure can be said and should be paid down with additional contributions in the coming days when the shortening will begin to return, etc. This situation exists today. If it's like the highest. A minister says, "The school has failed in this agreement, of course, it needs to be addressed. " [[The president calls.]] But ask yourself, " Was the agreement ever practical? ' Or is school her first month of this semester completely playing her butt out of her pants?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u42	A respectable president. There are no circumstances here to discuss the exact financial issues of a single school. They asked me how this situation had come up again, and I have provided the answer. Other than that, I simply admit that some schools have a latrine. At the same time, other schools have left behind. The overall state of high school has improved year by year. The situation was correct, much had been cut down, and effort had to be made to finance schools better. As we have been in that fight, the contributions are now up to about 1,100,000. in a student but when we took about 900,000 bucks. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u43	You want to send students home...?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u44	I don't know why. A senator is listening to me because she calls so much forward, but this is what we've been doing, and the donations are going to go from $ 900,000 when we took over, to 1,600,000. on a student.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u45	A respectable president. In fact, a host of tourists has been a frightening problem child, and politics have been a failure to address the issue for years. Interestingly, then, an expert committee on tax issues finds that in these areas a common suggestion is to raise the host's fee, to include some of it in the countryside, and to make some adjustments in simplifying the host's fee. This is on the basis of a cooperative field of increase in prosperity, which most major members of the Icelandic community are involved. I have encouraged that since most of the major organizations in this community can form a committee that can come to a common conclusion on how it is best to employ tourists, we are expected to settle a group of political debates over individual exports or individual viewpoints and simply accept suggestions that may include. All of the labour market members come to and care for ours, amass the council, and finally legalize before the end of the council so that we will receive the payment of tourists and money for the needed building. Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional trade committee, has declared that he is prepared to use himself for the development of a transnational agreement to raise the cost of the stay, thus allowing it to flow to these projects. I'm asking the members of the jury if she's ready to settle for such a parapolitic agreement on the needed payment and all know that it needs to be made by tourists in this country and this joint expertise committee on the environment for an increase in prosperity in Iceland has made a suggestion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u46	A respectable president. In the beginning, I have to disagree with the claim that the terms of travel are necessarily a group of political issues. This is a matter we have managed to disagree about, not just in politics, but in our community, for decades. I don't agree with who I am. A senator saying that this is something that, as he put it, will ensure building up funds. I point to the fact that there is now a fee to stay, which is truly a low one, 100 bucks. per hostance unit, approximately 300 million will be provided. In contrast, only the valuable tax of the card - making international tourist industry grew by 10 billion between 2014 and 2015, with 25 billion in 2015. This figure may have gone down quite a bit this year. We should consider what we agree on. There I motion to form at Vega for our common policy, our government, and the article, with the vast presence of our rural communities in the country. It is one of the focus projects that I think we can all agree on, to increase the income of rural society from tourism. On the other hand, I have disagreed with those who feel that it is best to do so with the host's fee. If we are going to increase it over the amount of money that will be of any importance to us, we would be in too complicated and unremarkable a tax system that I am not a spokesman for. However, we, and the task being started at the tourist Control Center, are looking for ways to increase the income and share of the rural community in the income of tourism. [[The president calls.]] That's a job that everyone agrees on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u47	A respectable president. Everybody knows we need to make more money from the tourists. Everyone knows that we need money to build up. Now, for a number of stakeholders in Icelandic society, a committee will come to a common conclusion to raise the balance of the home. Should I believe that the Minister stands when the scene for an increase in prosperity as most major members of the Icelandic community, including The team of workers, employers, and labor unions, join political groups, learns the best and the most reasonable way to go. Will the minister of the seminary resist such suggestions? Is there no one who wants to create a solidarity or to welcome a partnership in these matters as they have done, merely celebrating the success of good solidarities, celebrating the suggestions of experts on the best possible process, and simply making it their own? [[The president calls.]] Is there always a need for special research to get in the way of progress in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u48	A respectable president. I'm basically against the claims presented here. Everyone knows there's a special payment for tourists, says why. Senator. There's not a lot of people who know. If there's one thing I've learned from this office of mine, it's that there's not a lack of funding that's always built for cleaning. There is a lack of proper practice and a coordinated mechanism. Hence, we are now putting our hands on that task by joining together that each part of the chain responsible for its individual tasks in this enormously important work for what it is responsible for. 300, 600, 900 million to or from to special pay for tourists is just not the big thing in this. I don't think it's entirely absurd to intend to take such a case through the council when there are two weeks left of it. This is a project awaiting a new government. [[The president calls.]] This is something that the political parties forged should produce a clear policy in the process of election action. This is not a case that's being run through the council in two weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u49	Mr. President. I'd like to talk about today's program. The following is a discussion of the treatment of legal cases. Um... Then we have a part on the program "No. " 3rd Certificate of the Paris Convention, second discussion. I have come to understand that the discussion is to be held. This is significant because after a few days, there will be a United Nations conference in which nations will be able to produce validations. That's why we're running out of Paris deal. However, No. 7 This afternoon the issue of the second discussion on the validation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. I'd like to ask the highest. President: Is there also a vote for that topic? It is also very important that documents of validation be submitted, just as the documents validate the Paris Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u50	Because of what lays. A senator mentioned the part on the program must show how far we get to vote according to the way the discussion goes by day.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u51	Mr. President. In the early stages of this case, I have made a powerful statement about specific points relating to this bill. At the time, I felt very strongly that there was no way that the story could be shut down about the execution of the European Commission's wiretaps on its political opponents. I reminded myself of the story in these matters. The wise men, in our discussions, received this sound base, for example. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister of the state and various machines on this bill in two committees. Then there was a 2nd issue. had sent the case to the General and Education Committee. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. Of course, this committee is proving its right to existence in a number of matters, not only in this matter but also in another matter that we will discuss tomorrow in the future and that of a completely different state - office. The review of the Commission and monitoring committee included changes to the bill that I thought was minor. What made me particularly happy was that in the opinion of the committee, I was accepted as having my language, and the committee felt that it was necessary to investigate in a way that would guide and monitor the police in the future, as well as in what way I could handle the subject I had made. Hv. The importance of the coming of the council in some way was specifically shown by the administrative and monitoring committee. So are many of our neighboring countries, and indeed many, if not most, countries of Western Europe. I think it is very important to adopt some of the sort that prevents history from repeating itself in the future and that executives of the executives are being monitored or intercepted by their political opponents. I review some examples, as when the telephone of former chairman of the Democratic Party, Hannibal, the Valdimarsson of Valmi, was bugged. He was then president of ASI. And what was the occasion? Yes, the occasion was that large protests due to treaties then established by the government were about to be held. Don't ever repeat that. Therefore, my old heart was glad to see that, in view of the administrative and surveillance committee, it was highly accepted. It also suggested a special preliminary principle, assuming that these views are guided by the review and that the Commission's opinion should be met with both the review and the surveillance. The committee specifically stated that it would be unwise for such a task to be given to individuals from separate political wings. It can be viewed as part of the regulation of power within our system of things. I must say, however, that I rather find itself the provision for temporary and educational committees, but rather ludicrous. I don't feel that this is entirely consistent with the good and determined will expressed by the board of administration and monitoring committee. When that discussion was conducted, I did not have the option to have a word with the chairman of the administrative and surveillance committee, and I would therefore like to direct a question to him: How does he see to it that this review is made? Who will come to it, and in what way should the assembly attend?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u52	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor for the talk, accept the emphasis that came out there, and thank you for the way he's been lately, and in public fields remind us of wires being carried out here by police for political purposes. He has mentioned individuals who were prominent in politics and labor struggles and who were then listening. He reminds us of the importance of keeping law enforcement very strict in this regard. This issue was launched to the World Commission and Commission for review and to see if all the regulations presented here were a constitution and laws and regulations that we have set for the protection of individuals. We suggested that provision be made for temporary entry into the law to ensure that research would be carried out on this subject. As we emphasize, we explain in detail the points needed to take into consideration in such research, but we also emphasize that there will be a progressive outcome for the Council, which will lead to future follow-up in the custody of the General Assembly, which could then be called on experts and professionals in this field. I've been asking for the word below to take a closer look at these matters, but what? A senator calls attention to the very important aspects of this matter, and I stress that this work is being done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u53	Mr. President. A statement by which. The head of the administration and monitoring committee will satisfy my wishes on how this case should live. I felt that it was missing in the proposal adopted by him and his partner at the Board of Directors and Controls Committee for better implementation of the Council. I thought in 1st. about this bill, like men made the shoes so that the past could never repeat itself. Certainly, in our time, I do not believe that any political group or any movement might be interested in using abnormal methods to observe and even spy on their political opposers. We see this happening in other countries, where governments are spying on governments, where even our governments are spying on other friends. This kind of thing can always be done in Iceland sometime. Although we do not believe that this is the case today, circumstances may change relatively quickly. We must now, while it is possible to agree on such actions, to ensure it and then make knots that it cannot. So I have to say, I'm happy with this statement from what I'm saying. Senator. It falls very hard on the presentation I've had, and that's why I can say I'm supporting this bill, as I actually did in the early stages of the commission and monitoring committee's review, but I think this is a matter that we need to be concerned with.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this statement and stand. I will likewise support this matter on the basis of the foregoing and we have discussed. I'm just as scared as I am. Senator, that the past repeats itself. She keeps repeating herself. I'm afraid that holding the police isn't as good as it should, is afraid it's going to take a lot of action. Discussion and research on the best way of handling issues in Europe and the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, and there have been various ways of considering these topics. This case has been repeated in its administration and follow-up by the General Commission. Piras have moved about this bill. A management board has developed its views. All of this needs to be considered, for it is very important that we succeed in creating a trustworthy process. It is not enough for Congress alone to do this. We need experts. We need to learn a lesson from what is going on around us, but this, of course, requires careful research.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u55	A respectable president. We're here to discuss this important matter, which I'm glad we're here to vote on today in general. I feel it necessary, though, to draw attention to the fact that in the bill as it entered the Generals, there was something I would like to say that could have made a terrible mistake. I want to draw attention to how close we can be to messing up human rights. The bill is designed to narrow literature to telephone and wires, and it usually does so, with a list of articles that do not fall under the tribulation itself. There's a list I'm going to let myself be mentioned here but refer to the documents for that, but when the bill came in to the Council, it was 210 p.m. a general penal law, including, is a law that is rather specific in liberal Western democracies because it is the article against pornography in Iceland. I know that it is a subject that people avoid, but I also draw attention to the discussion that people avoid, especially because many, most of them, seem to find it difficult to define the term pornography. This has been the subject of numerous and studied articles on various grounds, theoretical and judicial. In Western democracies, pornography is specifically forbidden. This is not the norm. We're a little special in Iceland, a little behind as far as it goes. This article should have long ago been removed or changed so that it will deal with something worth having in penalties, such as spreading sleazy pornography. If we had more time here, I'd measure for that bill or change the bill. Bjarts'Council of the Future, which earlier proposed a bill to this council to ban currant porn. I refer to the discussion about it. Regardless of how people feel about the term pornography and regardless of how people are going to define it, it remains that in today's world, quite a number of people today view pornography online. It's a reality we live in. We don't have to like it. It's okay that we blush a little, and that we feel uncomfortable talking about it, but the case is that there's a very large group of people. If we had authorized it to enter here as an exception, since police allowed me to listen, I would not be comfortable living in this country, a respectable president, under the sort of terror the police were assigned to listen to. Of course, that is because we are left behind when it comes to the category of paint. But I have to say, I'm glad that it was so easy to take it out, that there was no more than a discussion. In contrast, there are other articles dealing with corruption, and there are other articles on, for example. Child pornography, something that's still inside, and should be there, in my opinion. The way we roll this subject under the discussion all the time because we're either too shy to take it or we just have opinions that, frankly, are not fully protected from civil rights views after this article is there and can cause a great deal and almost do so in this case. She almost did. We barely made it. For a preliminary rule of the bill, to propose. The management and monitoring committee is requested that we be alert to the application of these sources. This is a key to my assessment of the actual use of these sources, since it is not least in view of what we were close to making such mistakes; it is important that we pay attention to how these sources are actually used and that the justification used for the application of such sources is legitimate and justified and will not go beyond what is needed. As a matter of fact, I'm glad that in the discussions taking place on this matter, there seems to be a mutual feeling among members of Congress, at least Those who have spoken here have to be very carefully monitored for these sources. These are dangerous sources, not just when it comes to politicians, but when it comes to civilians. Not only is it important for politicians not to be tapped for political purposes but it is also important that the city not be tapped for the wrong purpose or for the wrong reasons. That's extremely important. There is something else that I also feel important to bear in mind, and it is about the review of my favorite organization, or one of them, the Federal Protection Agency. Personal protection declared a firm support for this case and welcomed it, natural, as it is here a tight source for telecommunication, which is closely correlated with the values established by Peritoneal Protection. However, we must also bear in mind that we cannot leave it for institutions such as Peritoneal Protection, which, after all, is a legal institution, an institution designed to deal with the law as the law has decided that it should be, because Perone Protection did not mention that taking 210 is absolutely necessary. from this bill and in itself wasn't necessarily designed because the role of the Agency is not that of making sense to us at the high General Assembly when it comes to the criteria we set for privacy and the application of resources such as shutters. That's our job. So we have to keep our eyes up, and luckily we did it now. However, there was not much to remember. They could have remembered a panel or two that this could have ended very badly. Then you never know exactly what would have happened. With fine senators, like hell. 5th a.m. Smoke. It may well have been handled in this successful way. When we enter articles like 210. gr. a general penalties need to be able to talk about it. We need to be able to understand that even though pornography is an unpleasant word and uncomfortable subject, it is a phenomenon that overexcites large amounts of public consumption, regardless of what people may think of it. The intention to tackle it with the wiretaps or shut down the Internet connection is a terrible idea, a respectable president. I think it's the lesson in this matter. As I stepped in earlier on a preliminary note, it is very important that we try to involve the police in the investigation of these matters, and it is extremely important. Also, there is something important that I expect to do. 12th p.m. We're out of Suðvest. follow-up, follow-up assessment, check how they are treated, and see if it is necessary to apply them to the extent used. I'll leave it for them. A senator on the board of administration and surveillance committee on behalf of us pirata. It is also worth referring to the importance of maintaining police surveillance in general. The Pirantics have proposed a plagion arrangement for independent surveillance of police work and practices. It would be wish for such supervision to be established, and I think there is good reason. I think the story shows that there is good reason, especially after we called it up during the days and found out that wire wires are approved in 99.31% of cases. Then, of course, people have some excuses for this that I can't allow to believe because I have to apply the data that are available. I have to trust that the evidence is correct. They at least demonstrate beyond any doubt that the way police use their power, the ability to listen as they do other sources, is involved in violating offenses. It is only to be expected in human institutions. Let us not pretend that there is a basis for stumbling over such words. Similarly, let us not pretend to be spreading some form of suspicion. This is a power agency and she has the authority to listen to people. It has the authority to use physical force on people. It is absolutely necessary for civil rights and democracy itself that such institutions be properly supervised and maintained. That is a key, a respectable president, and no one should be shocked at it. Despite an excellent argument in a controversy proposal to establish such an institution, it did not get a course, as it was supposed to be in view of the reality of politics. On the other hand, we were granted a court order to support police surveillance in a much lower way than we piratars wanted, we wanted to set up a committee that accepts the complaints and charges of the police and makes a career to treat them, and we can also create statistics that can later be used to find out if it needs to go further or, as I would say, when it takes longer to hold police and similar organizations. Of course, I hope now that committee produces the most effective results. I sincerely hope it changes much more things for the better than I think it will. But I do not think that she could have taken on a role like that provisional principle. I think that despite the fact that this committee is here and will do some good when it comes to the conduct of police to the citizen, the city simply cannot complain about what he does not know is happening. Then I'd like to mention other offenders, which we also need to keep in mind. I've heard more than two, and more than three times, and from more than two or three places of crime to inform people that they've been tapped. It's also serious. When people hear the sounds and do nothing more, it is important that they be informed of them. The city needs to be aware of how much government surveillance is about him. It's very important. In my opinion, Iceland and I have long been naive to the way power cults work inevitably and therefore not entirely with the finger of our pulse as to the need for maintenance. But it is necessary and needed to be more of it, and while celebrating this bill, we must learn from what happened at the High Council. We almost put in a wiretap for the distribution of pornography. I know it's not the same as eating pornography and distributing it, but when one eats something on the Internet, the nature of the problem is the nature of someone else distributing it outside of the fact that you can't know exactly what the system is doing with the sources given at the General Assembly. We all know that this is a crime, and we must not let it go for years or even decades without the ability to handle it because no one knows or wants to talk about it. Most importantly, I'm on notice at this time I have left. I don't think this kind of law will ever be perfect. I don't think that law like that is the kind of law that can't be abused. I think it's always possible. I believe, however, that it can be reduced, and I think that it can be arranged so that when such documents are abused, they will respond, even if they did not, but because the General Assembly is aware of it. I especially welcome this provision. It helps me a lot to vote with this case because though 210. gr. has fallen out of the list there are other articles worth discussing in particular lists. If you think it's such a serious offense, you have to ask why they don't raise the line of punishment. That is a question that we have not done at all here and is something that might need to be discussed more in connection with these specific offenses. Here's the only context of phone taps, wires, stuff like that. It is worth considering, though, why we justify the authority we give. Again, this is a provisional principle, which helps me to vote for this matter. I strongly emphasize that we do not fall asleep on guard and that our next election session, the second term, etc. Watch this, that there is an active monitoring of institutions with these sources. They're serious, and we're never supposed to take them for nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u56	V.E.G. President. Like many others, I welcome this bill, of course, there are many benefits. When I look at 1 st. But there's one thing that'll question me a little about this, whether or not it's actually being limited by police to listen and listen and the resources involved. However, the evaluation of the courts is always a matter of public interest or personal interest. We're moving the line from eight years to six years, and for some incomprehensible reason, we're taking out certain articles where there might be some social or private interests. I'm wondering what the public interest or the private interest of what. A senator could see 206th and 210. to listen and listen. The lawgiver suggests that somewhere there could be public interest or personal interest, taking out other requirements that I myself am quite aware of as being a more public or private benefit in listening or listening than in forming in these articles. What I think we can fear, and I want to know if the Senator agrees with me in this, is whether we are actually giving the police a further chance of listening and listening than before.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u57	A respectable president. I'm as sure as I can make it here is closing the warrant. With respect to 206th par. and 210. I can't imagine any public or private interest in a company of 210. With a 206 str. has just changed. She's at least To deal with a man-salter that I would say was very important to private interest and a very rich public interest. We don't have time for this little chat to discuss either 206. gr. is the right way to root out a man's room. I think it's another real discussion, a whole different subject. [[Up front.]] The question is valid, and it is important to consider it because if it is not obvious, it is a problem. But I must say, I am persuaded that this is a tribulation. That is a key point in this bill, really what makes this a tribulation, and the main thing that makes it, that there is the word over there converted to ◯ and to ◯. In previous fracture studies, it was said of eight years of imprisonment or rich public or private interests and this has been interpreted quite extensively because the phenomenon can easily be interpreted widely. You can see when you ask how often a wire request is accepted because it turns out that it is in 99.31% of cases. I don't quite see how we could expand all this more. Even if there's a small accident in here, I don't see how it could get worse than it is. Of course it's possible. Hv. I'm sure a senator knows better than I do since he's experienced in the judiciary system. However, after considering the matter a little bit, I believe that this is no longer a possibility for extending existing authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u58	V.E.G. President. We're discussing a bill that's very important and turns even. ... listeningtothepolitan wiretaps. Congress officials have discussed some articles and have agreed that, overall, this bill is about to squeeze and clear police sources to the wires. I reiterate what happened to me in answer to this earlier, that the fundamental part of the management and monitoring committee on this bill is the provision from which this committee has been passed and is introduced into this bill that it needs to be done with careful work on how to permanently monitor. It is very important that Congress issues get careful coverage, especially complex issues such as this bill. I think we're all agreed on by the Board of Directors and Control Committee that this case is not really over. We need to enter a work process that, in turn, becomes better bottomed. I think it's quite right on the part of the government, and I think it's a reason for this, without me going through a long talk there, to remind you that for the council there are a number of complex bills needed for a detailed discussion at the council. We listened to the highest. Secretary of finance earlier said that it would be impossible for him to do anything but that the bill for a change in the welfare system of public employees would be accepted. The subject has not yet been discussed, the bill has not yet been published. Have you ever realized what changing the reference age to pension 65 to 67 years means for a person with 300,000 bucks?? Now the rights are limited to 0.5% per month if the pension right is used prior to this time, but the benefits are 0.75% if a pensioner is delayed. Now, people are going to move this reference year up to about two years ago. What does that mean? Have people thought about that? What does it mean if a person with 300,000 K. Did you put it away for two years now to take away his pension? That's 54,000 k. Every month for the benefit that he would otherwise have received. It's not enough, it's now also counting a decrease of 0.5%. How much is that? That's 36,000. over the last two years. What, then, are we talking about? We're talking about, at one point, a lower person by 300,000 dollars. In a pension of about 90,000 bucks, not every year, but every month. This is what men want us to accept, like drinking water. I listened to the highest. Secretary of finance maintains this in the past. Thank you very much. President for putting up with my mention of this, but I do so in the context that the basics of the Council are to be examined carefully before they are approved. As a result, I warn against driving through the council on social security and pension bill without the members of Congress getting room to see all their dimensions. This is what I feel is fundamental, and I play out this thought against the thought I believe this bill is based on. There is a much more difficult method of working, as well as putting the job into a process that is not completed with this agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u59	President. Therefore, an attempt to secure some form of privacy should be welcomed. It is true, however, that we live in a period where it does not seem to be an understanding of it for those who enter the General Assembly of Congress that the Constitution is entitled to the Constitution, that privacy of privacy is an important democracy, because it will flow into the Allied text to become a law which is to be tried by the Council's decision that this is not a premeditated basis for investigation, that this is not to draw out information on individuals only because it is so easy. If it weren't for Pirata, there would've been a lot of laws that would have been done where the weekend would be very far away. I think it's a very serious matter. It should not be that only members of Congress do not understand the importance of permanence, whether digital or in real life, because these worlds are not separate. I am glad that we are trying to find some way to control this tremendous temptation. Many do not seem to realize how important this intervention is in privacy and how basic human rights are handled. I'm glad there's been a request and a hearing from the Board of Directors and Control Committee. After the committee discussed the matter, there were very much suggestions for changing the bill, so it is truly much better than it looked when it came to the council. It was successful to get through the fact that digital data, called metamethata, or literature, would be as much an intervention in the privacy as if listening to phone calls. I think it's important to keep it up. I think it's very important that it got through, and I appreciate it. Board of directors and surveillance committees and then what. The General Commission for taking this as a definition of the wiretaps. In this regard, a significant step is being taken. I'd like to reiterate the surveillance and maintenance of police work, when it comes to collecting and handling communications on the phone taps and recordings and signs and photographs, to introduce the representatives of the General Assembly. What is even better for this is that it refers to the need for those with knowledge of technology to be offered counselling. The report on the surveillance role of the General Assembly and, unfortunately, many members of Parliament do not seem to have the opportunity to examine the conclusions that the Council is taking to agree with, whether at the Council of Europe or at the International Parliament, which has adopted very important conclusions in this issue. In the context of this particular bill, I'm going to read from a 25-point operation program to ensure democracy in digital times with a special focus on the threats of privacy and personal freedom. In Article 9 of a resolution adopted by the International Parliament body, the following is shown by permission of presidents: ▪ National Parliaments to legalize comprehensive data protection legislation, for both the public sector and the private sector, which minimise the strict conditions for listening, collect, analyze and preserve data, on clear and decisive limits on the use of wiretiles and collected data and on the security measures that ensure the most secure, anonymous and permanent data sharing; and recommend the implementation of independent and efficient national data protection agencies which have the power to re-evaluate practices and management measures, while promoting national legislation to ensure that national data protection is fully in accordance with international and human rights and rights and may be equal to both national rights on-to-nets. Step 10: It also applies to the National Parliament to ensure that, if it does not interfere with the investigation of criminal activity, any agreement between governments and businesses, law and any other organisations will be subject to the council. Step 12: ▪ Invited National Congress to refuse listening to communications and intelligence by the State or other sources involved in measures that adversely affect world peace and security, as well as civil and political rights, particularly those included in Article 12 of the International Human Rights Declaration, and Article 17 of the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, where it says that the individual will have to be exposed to a disorder of privacy, family, home, or letter exchange, and that Šall have the right to protect against such disorders or attacks. 13th area: ▪ National Parliament's need for a detailed analysis of conditions allowing interference with the right to privacy, set strict legal guidelines on communications control, and monitor the implementation of these regulations, limit the length of monitoring, safety and preservation of data and security measures. 14th area: ▪ Emphasizes that the reasons for national security include the exception that digital technology may threaten the security and welfare of the state, need to reevaluate its membership to monitor all the activities of the Commission and to ensure that national security and individual freedoms will be balanced to ensure that measures in the name of national security and antiterrorism are in accordance with human rights and avoid all threats to democracy and human rights. 15th: It is strongly encouraged by the National Congress to review and establish effective, independent and neutral surveillance where necessary and have it within the legislation; highlighting that the National Parliament must investigate all the defects of its surveillance and their reasons, make sure that members of the organisations such as members of the Parliament and members of the Parliament have sufficient resources, right authority and necessary authority to revise and publish publicly reports of the activities of the state and/or monitoring agencies involved in their activities, including measures in cooperation of foreign organisations with information sharing or shared measures. The reason I'm reviewing this is because I'm still waiting for a report from the highest level. Minister of State on where we stand regarding these processes. I think it is very important that these authorities are monitored and that, regardless of the fact that police have been able to get access to very personal information and communications data in more than 99% of cases. That's very serious to me. That's why I'm glad we're taking this step, but we need to have a lot more speed, because privacy is a real threat, and if we don't have privacy, we can't live in a healthy democracy. It's just that way. There may be cases such as now after a collapse, when there were very sharp and deeply involved in the privacy of certain social groups. No matter what social groups they are, we need to be very careful about such sources. I encourage the Council to remain vigilant over the matters that come in here and repeatedly include proposals for both premeditated research sources and sources to collect data that are not in line with the Republic of Iceland's constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u60	A respectable president. I'm here to recommend a committee party. The Foreign Affairs Committee for a proposal for a hearing on the validation of the Paris Convention. I don't think I have to comment on the importance of the matter and the importance of all the members of the council have put this project, huge business, and huge contracts, to follow and how important it is in the minds of those who are taking a meeting. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. What a joy it is if we are heading toward it, and we are able to settle it before the end of this council! Of course, the committee had an opportunity before signing. As men know and wonder. The Senate knows how to write. Environment and resource secretary to the Treaty for Iceland during a formal signing ceremony by the United Nations in New York on April 22, 2016. Before that time, the delegates had trouble. A foreign relations committee has been given the opportunity to discuss and review them and our main negotiations' goals, and it was obvious that we were well informed that we may not have the expectations that we would be doing just as well as ever. How successful we are! The Commission, after the case was formally presented, has discussed the case at its meetings, received its meeting with Helga Hauksdóttir, Hafsteinsdóttir Höfsteinótttir and the Þorvaldur of Hrafn Ingvason, of the Ministry of State and Hugi Ólafsson of Environment and Resources. As I said, we too had an introduction before. Like what? Congress officials are familiar with this synonym looking for the warrant of the Generals to validate the United Nations Paris Convention adopted in Paris on December 12, 2015. We all know what is set out to keep the temperature of the earth well below 2°C in relation to the average temperature of the earth before industrialization, but to look also for ways to keep the temperature below 1.5°C, relative to the temperature of the earth before industrialisation. These are the technical factors and the solutions that came up with these issues. Comments on the proposal show that the Paris Convention would cover the commitments of the countries called national budgetary contributions. The Member States formally and regularly report their contributions to the United Nations specific office of the United Nations Climate Convention, which includes targets for greenhouse gas emissions and information on more climate change measures, between five and ten years of age. This was shown in our agreements and in others who suggest that, of course, there are considerable differences between what evolutionists need to achieve and since other countries, but developed countries should continue to help reduce emissions in the whole economy and developing countries should at the same time continue to try to reduce emissions and are encouraged in time to set goals that will cover the entire economy. It was also mentioned in particular as the newer sensitivity from those to whom we had come in trouble. The State Department that developing countries will now be supported by developed countries on the implementation of the Convention, and it can be assumed that this would have had a significant impact on the achievement of such agreements. As I said before, every state shall give this information regularly. It has been noted at a meeting of the Commission that Iceland's national contribution is being met in cooperation with the EU and Norway in 40% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, compared with emissions by 1990. Of course, there are some lofty goals and goals, but they are goals that our most skilled experts believe can achieve. There is closer discussion between Iceland, Norway and the EU on the implementation of regular work and share of each part of the above reduction of emissions. The main aspects of the Regulation will be the continuation of participation in EU greenhouse gas emissions business systems and over 10,000 EU enterprises and over another tens of these countries receive markets available. Second, extra commercial emissions targets will be determined using the same methodology as EU countries. A third factor is forestry and carbon binding. The estimated end of these discussions by Norway and the EU is 2017 and 2018. In particular, the meeting of Iceland's parish and the opportunity to reduce greenhouse gas emissions was conducted. At that time, there was also a difference between the two groups. Reference was made to the 2004-2020 Action Programme to achieve Kyoto targets by 20% less emissions and to the 2016/2018 application programme, which includes the current factors and contributes to energy exchange, electrical vehicles, forestry, the recovery of wetlands and food waste, to name something. Sources are that Iceland's most important possibilities, i.e. Our main possibilities for less emissions are transport, fishing, and agriculture. We had discussed and presented what we know here, and we have previously discussed, which we may expect to work along with us in reaching these goals. The Commission has the importance of taking on the climate crisis in a responsible and decisive way. Iceland, by the opinion of the Commission, has all the opportunities to build a climate-friendly society. In the United States, Iceland takes its place in a group of countries that wanted to achieve an ambitious agreement on climate issues in Paris. The total consumption of the Paris Convention now underlines this attitude of Iceland and of its convergence across the General Assembly. Hence, the committee suggests that the proposal as it is requested will remain the same. Frosti Sigurjónsson, Óttarr Proppé and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunrsdóttir were away at the hearing, but the literature under the authority of the 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. The Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir of the Committee is also acceptable. Under this publication, the one that stands here, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and why. The members of Elín Hirst, Sigurjónsson the son of Sigurion, Otttir Proppé, Karl Garðarsson's son, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdot, Árnadóttir, Björn Vilhjálmur of Bjarnason, and Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. Foreign Affairs Committee for the work this has been for. So are all those involved. What I really want to do here is emphasize to us at the council that we take this seriously, i.e. This schedule we now have to attack. There are broad - scale attacks on action. We need to take this seriously. I'm worried that we won't do it enough. What I'm saying is that we sometimes write beautiful words on paper, set beautiful goals, but less measures are involved. It is disappointing to see how badly we have gone along for energy exchanges in transport. We're far behind, for example. That's what Norwegians are about. I've mentioned and submitted a matter of Congress there that I thought that we should all, once and for all, get together on the cross-cutting that we made green vehicles pay- and tax-free until we have reached a certain objective in the proportion of such automobile fleets, e.g. Ten percent, 15%, so we're over a Critic target, and they've encouraged a little bit of a strain on the fact that this happened. Instead, we've been sliding on reserves from cost-employment tax in electric cars from year to year, and that doesn't give us enough confidence for this market. There are other things I could mention. I don't think we necessarily need to be somewhere in political pits. Rather, we should be able to cross groups of people about setting such goals and engaging in the action required. There is one project that can be mentioned. Then it is also important to me that we follow the lead. I would have, for example. Wants to see that once you've been reinvigorated, e.g. For example, the secret car fleet of ministers would have been renewed in green vehicles. There is more to it. I come up here to reiterate my position and our stand in the United States, declaring that we are ready for this parapolitic work to try to take on some drastic action so that we can meet our goals and even do better. We have tools and tools for that. I would also like to mention that we see examples of how making such a decision can have an effect on such goals, for example. in the fishing road. In fishing roads, we have seen tremendous success in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Seeing the total emissions of Iceland shows that there has been a lot of success in the fishing road in reducing emissions. We need to start looking at other secular activities in a comparable way. I think it's an example how Reykjavík has done this. Reykjavíkurburg has concluded an agreement with another hundred companies in the city for a common effort. This city's aim and efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions have led to global attention. The public and private sector are coming together. I'd like to see that the state did the same thing and did it a little bit and show that we mean what we say in all of this together. And then I'm also interested, as I'm on a environmental and transport committee. We are now considering a transport program. It is never particularly viewed or evaluated by a new transport program, e.g. Based on greenhouse gas emissions and reduction targets. We would have to develop standards and glasses that we look through on the tools we have, such as the one we have. A transport program, to try to determine if there is any opportunity we could use to reduce emissions. This is what I will leave at the end of this discussion. I support this case, of course, and consider it the very best, but I believe that it is lacking that we follow more closely on such activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u62	V.E.G. President. I'm glad that the proposal for interpretation of the Paris Convention has arrived in 2nd. and that's where we're going to vote on her, and then we're gonna validate the Paris deal. I believe this is one of the most important things we will do at this council. Still, it is vital to remember that the privatization of the Paris Convention is primarily just a political declaration. As a political declaration, it is very important, but the next step may be what might be said to be difficult on this project, i.e. to take the measures we actually reduce emissions. I think it's far more difficult than signing a statement, as important as it is. Experts have noted that the state can no longer afford to focus on some unique or specific points, e.g. Forests, rather, must work on a wide range of levels and plan, set goals, and work in many areas. Everything must be underneath. As mentioned here in a committee party from the night. The Foreign Affairs Commission then provides the main options for the environment's less agricultural emissions, fishing and transport. That is where we need our attention. That's where we have to make plans. In fact, we have planned a number of programs, and now we need to follow them in a way that reduces emissions. It is fundamental that all matters of Congress, all the cases that go through the Council, will be addressed to the impact of their greenhouse gas emissions. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir's daughter put this in good context in her speech by referring to a road program. But there's only one example. Everything has to be underneath. These are the glasses that we are going to be on the political stage of the 21st century must always be on our nose, no matter what the issue we address, since the future is at stake. The matter is so much bigger and more important than that it may be just some beautiful word on paper. This must be arranged. We need to start working now based on how we will succeed. It also states that part of the Paris Convention is that developing nations should be supported by developed countries in implementing this agreement. I think it is only natural that countries that are richer in other countries do not live in the same quality of life as they do for developing countries to achieve goals when it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Of course, they also need to consider how they can secure the prosperity of their inhabitants. I think it's fine that we also remember this aspect of the agreement and our responsibility as one of the richest countries in the world and that we keep this in mind when we consider Iceland's contributions to development cooperation. This is what we need to think about when we count the financial resources for developing cooperation as well as the projects we strengthen. That is where, in cooperation with these countries, we also have to wear the climate glasses on our nose. Mr. President. As I said in the beginning, I'm glad that Iceland is about to validate the Paris Convention. It's a really positive, remarkable, good step, but work is just beginning. Now it's going to be hard to take over.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u63	A respectable president. I bring here a brief number on behalf of the foreign minister who is absent. A respectable president. It's a pleasure to see that. With a unanimous stand, a foreign press committee has agreed to suggest that the General Assembly resolution proposal for the approval of the United Nations Paris Convention will remain unconvinced. Therefore, I allow myself to agree with a more dignified foreign committee that it is important that the world's state handles in a responsible and decisive way the problem of climate change. The Paris Convention constitutes a national policy frame. However, it is our responsibility, individual countries, to set these goals, illustrate how we plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and report the objectives to the United Nations Climate Convention. In June of the year, the Icelandic government proposed its target of a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990 in cooperation with EU and Norway. Iceland's commitments are determined by contracts between the three parties that we plan to complete in the next two years. In many ways, local conditions are unique, with electricity and house - to - house warming of nearly 100% more renewable energy already being used. However, there are many opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, mainly in connection with transport, fishing, agriculture, forestry, land healing, and recovery of wetlands. I want to shoot in here that the ideas that have been tore up here are very interesting, and I would especially like to mention the ideas as well. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir mentioned that green vehicles and such things would simply be free of charge until certain goals were reached. I think this is a very interesting idea. Today, there is a plan of action to 2020 due to the 2nd commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol and a recent application schedule for 2016-2018. It is, in fact, there. magazine on energy exchanges, electrical vehicles, forestry, wetlands recovery, food waste production, adaptation to climate change, and global earth - heat projects and land healing. A prior action plan for action will be implemented after 2020 on the basis of the Paris Convention. A respectable president. I hope Iceland can be among the countries that are able to validate the Paris Convention this year and thus contribute to the progress of this important contract as early as possible worldwide. It is, of course, ours to let this work. I think that, based on the tone of the council room today, we should be able to agree on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u64	Mr. President. V.E.G. During this terms, a minister has extended his reign in the hands of the Council. He started as foreign minister, he's a agricultural and marine minister today. Even if the election is short, I have to say, although I have never anticipated it, that I wish he would, before the election, also the minister of finance. V.E.G. The minister here made a very remarkable statement that some of us have been waiting for a long time for the government to give. V.E.G. On the part of the discussion, a minister said that it was a very good idea. paritaprevir Katrín's daughter, the daughter of Júlíusdóttir, that green vehicles should be free. That's where the forward party's blood flows to the exact same vascular system as I think I can say to the entire administration of the opposition. To me, this is a pivotal declaration, saying that one is coming for a long time. I think it's the best. Ministers are always getting better, and the more they change the ministry. I really wanted to. A minister would be in a position to help us who have been applying that suggestions for years. I give full support to his efforts to promote power in the Ministry of finance. The fact is, the main thing is that it is the current financial minister, who has, of course, shown a little understanding of this matter, who has not wanted to take the big step I am at the highest level. The secretary of the business is now completely with the rest of us in the process of stepping. If he's all right, thank you. Finally, I ask the highest. A minister, not whether it is possible for him to try to take over the Ministry of Economics but, rather, for some reason, whether he intends to employ it before elections and try to get the government with him and with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's warm words, so I don't use them strong enough to answer those expressions of affection and other factors behind them. [[Up front.]] I don't have the men to try to take over any more of the departments. I have to say, though, that I was at a meeting the other day in the country, and it was advertised: The company closed today because of Gunnar Bragi. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I wondered if it would be like a tornado or something. But I guess it wasn't. It was just for people to get to the meeting. But I mean what I say here. I think this is a very good way to encourage us to increase the contribution of green vehicles in our environment. We can also take the matter further and ask ourselves, " How can I encourage farmers? ' Now farmers have signed an agreement or a statement with a professional secretary and environmental minister to help further use green energy in agriculture. We might think of some way that they could be supported to take the step, to be on machines that spend less, or to use green fuel, which they themselves could produce. And so you could continue to count. We'll see we've got an electric motor at least one ship here, a whale watcher, which is absolutely exemplary. Then we also know that Iceland is producing green fuels, e.g. Of the company's Icelandic fuel, south with water, biodisil, and much more can be done. There are pioneers on the move, and while they are produced from oil today, they aim to produce this from algae, which is extremely interesting for Iceland. There's a lot of opportunities. We're supposed to use them. One of them is simply inviting people to get a much less expensive vehicle for the country today. This we do by canceling expenses to some extent or at some point until we reach certain goals. Then I don't think that's a question.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u66	A respectable president. I just want to realize briefly that I and we could never have supported this matter as it entered the council. Depending on why. General and Education Committee and what. The management and monitoring committee has improved the situation and we vote by that, as this is a way of improving the privacy of our private life. However, it is worth considering that there is an important provision for a minister to investigate and analyze ways in order to maintain the investigation of the police. This is a group of paintings that will never end, a group of paintings that we need to remain alert to, and although this case is certainly improving, it is not perfect, and there is every reason to continue with these issues during the coming and the election periods.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u67	Mr. President. I described my attitude toward this matter in the past, and I want to make it clear that I am fully on the side of this issue. I do so on the basis of the declaration made here earlier today. paritaprevir Mr. Jónasson's son, president of the Board of Directors and Control. It's totally caught up in the open ground by the people who were involved in their aim to see that the council is involved in an analysis that is going to develop ways to establish surveillance and sustain the police.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u68	President. Fear of privacy has never been so great today. That's why I'm glad we're here, even though it's just a tiny side of it and the threat of it. It is of utmost importance that we be aware of, all as one, especially those of us here at the legislation, why privacy is so important, why privacy is usually put into the Constitutions of human rights and human rights covenant of the United Nations. I'm glad we're taking part in creating an independent real surveillance to monitor police authorities' sources to listen to the public as well as the fact that we're taking a little step and hoping we'll take a lot more to protect basic human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u69	V.E.G. President. In the left, we are happy to begin validating the Paris Convention in Iceland. This is of utmost importance when it comes to mastering climate change, but it is also very important that we keep in mind and remember that this is the political declaration. What has to happen is how we actually reduce greenhouse gases. It will not always be an easy task. That is why it is of utmost importance for us, who are going to have a field of political activity in the future, to keep our eyes on our noses as we discuss every case at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u70	A respectable president. In a few words, I'd like to be happy to know that we're going to vote on validation of the Paris convention. What a privilege it was to be present these days, both in Paris and then to sign the contract in New York City! I am absolutely convinced that this will lead to a better view of the entire environment. Our daily lives must take into account what we are accepting here. All of us need to revise our plans and how we live. You have found the results that have already been accomplished. Businesses both in Iceland and around the world have begun to think differently and see in this particular innovation. We need to change. New technologies must also come into play so that we can cope with the problems we are all facing. This is global disaster, and we all have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u71	A respectable president. I just want to be here and now to congratulate us on this phase. I had the pleasure of being in Paris when this agreement was made. We were there one seven Icelandic senators, and I believe that ahead of us is watching and following that what there is going to be our wet stone in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u72	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 97/? 2016 of the change in XVI. Annex to the EEA Convention, i.e. about public shopping. This report comes from a State Department of State, which has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a representative from the State Department and the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Economics. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 97/2016, 29 April 2016, of the change in XVI. An Annex on Public Shopping from May 2, 1992, and entering the Convention Three Directives on Public Shopping, Council Directive 2014/23/EU from February 26, 2014, on the preparation of individual contracts, on European Parliament Directives and on Council 2014/24/ESB of 26 February 2014 for public shopping and subsidation of Directive 2004/18/EC, and on European Parliament Directive and Council 2014/25/EU from 26 February 2014 for storing water supply, energy supply, transport and mail services, and collection of Directive 2004/17/EC. The main objective of the Directive 2014/24/EU and 2014/25/EU is to ensure transparency and equivalence and to increase the agreement on official agreements in the European Economic Area. The aim of Directive 20143/EU is to establish pooled agreements which define such agreements in a clear and precise manner due to difficulties that have been identified to distinguish between the Marketing Authorisation Conventions and other public purchase agreements. Comments with the suggestion show that the induction of the three types calls for an overall review of current public shopping legislation. The financial and economic secretary has already provided a new law on public shopping that includes the introduction of the three Directives, i.e. No. 665 at the current legislature, which has been discussed in the budget board since May last. In July, the Ministry of Economics was looking for committees to find that governmental warnings would be canceled by legal regulations, such as those authorized by the World Council's Council on the Constitutional Management of the EEA. The principle is that the administrative notice of the decisions made by the joint EEA committee will be lifted by Generalis decree and that the secretary of state proposes such a resolution. The Commission has stated that the laws given for many years have not been lifted by governmental warnings. Changes in the above rules have been made in 2010 to ensure a coordinated implementation on a case like this and more of the State Department's surface. It is important that the Council take a clear view of each occasion whether or not to lift the administrative warnings of Europe's makings and therefore requires that the specific proposal of this material be administered at all times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u73	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u74	- That's what we said. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u75	Given cause.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u76	The committee suggests that the matter will be agreed with. Hv. Senators Frosti Sigurjónsson, Óttarr Proppé, and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunrsdóttir were absent at the hearing. Hv. paritaprevir Óttarr Proppé are signing this with a warrant at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hv. paritaprevir A Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Councilmen Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, chairman of this matter, Karl Garðarsson, Elín Hirst, Óttarr Proppé, in advance, Steinunn Þóra Ánar, Björn's Árnadóttir, and Össur Skarphéðinsson's son. A respectable president. I believe that this matter is quite simple and reminds us of what was presented to the committee that it will not bring about any expense but, rather, it will save.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u77	A respectable president. I'm reviewing more of the General Information and Education Committee on bill to correct the transition to private treatment laws, No. 91/1991, with subsequent changes, which said "observation." The bill includes the changes to the application system and conditions for the application. It is suggested that the application procedures be taken to the county. Then the role of the parish committee will be changed to the point that instead of giving the minister a binding report on whether to accept or refuse a claim, she will be charged with the decision of a businessman for adduction. It is also suggested that the conditions for abduction should be changed and the decisions made on the cost of a judicial case in which the application is applied. By the Act on Government Pronunciation and Government in the province, No. 50/2014, a preliminary review was made on the basis of a decision to transfer projects from recruitment to a businessman. As it turned out, the application of the parish to the county was admissible to their activities as well as to the advantage of a possible lawsuit due to rejection or limitation of the parish, which is not in current legislation. I'd especially like to welcome this matter, that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is failing to these laws, and here with another Ministry to do the same. It has also been shown that this change will be correct. They hit two birds in one blow, so to speak. Regarding the reviews of this bill, a review of Iceland's Law Association made a comment at 1 mg. 2.g. the bill that the criteria for a lawsuit were not to be understood in such a way that it would have to be likely to succeed. The majority of it shows that the wording is comparable to words in the current law and in the Regulation on the conditions of the application and practices of the application committee, No. 616/2012, you will find a more detailed explanation of the proposed issues as to whether there is sufficient cause for a lawsuit. The committee received the information that this point has not been considered to limit people's ability to bring their rights to court. Then the Society will also oppose the authority presented in the final verses of 1st. Section 3. The bill that the Minister shall be authorized to issue in accordance with the Regulation on the terms of legal approval in certain cases. Sets the union to legalize this warrant. A major point is that the principle is that a judge decides the approval of a lawyer and the cost of the legal case in a case that has been filed against. Then a judge will also determine whether the cost is legitimate and if it comes to the county's decision to take sides with a lawyer's approval and his second cost in exceptional circumstances, it is necessary to recognize the cost of each individual's decision. The review of Land Guard shows the view that there will be a law on the highest cost of the person who loses a case in all significant matters that will be made payable to the environmental Court of Justices. Sets land protection to make changes to 130th par. The law to do that. In view of Land Protection, it is not compatible with the national commitments of the Iceland under the terms of the European Treaty that there is no legal authority to provide national legislation on the environment of the environment. The greater part of the claim that when the contract was validated, the same code of law was in force as is now proposed in the bill. At the validation of the contract, a detailed review of the legal adjustment required for his validation was made, including how to implement regulations 9th. The contract that requires access to a righteous trial. As the law of No, this was in the process of establishing an independent ruling committee. 130/2011, the Environmental and Resource Decision Committee. The majority estimate is that this has brought us fully into harmony with the requirements set out in Article 9. The Communion Convention. At the same time, the Commission points out that there would be a better way to place such sources in the field of environmental protection than in the civil law. Finally, more part wants to go to 2 mg. 2.g. The bill stipulates that the Minister can further issue the conditions of the application. A greater estimate is that in view of sources for limitation of apestion, it is necessary to take into account normal income guidelines and direct them to the Ministry to look to them for a look at the point when changing the Regulation. The majority suggest a change in the value of the bill, so bed rests in preparation for the changes the bill involves. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following change: instead of ◯1. July 6, 2016, 6th. Come on: February 1, 2017. Konráðsdóttir Kálsdótttir and Haraldur Einarsson wrote this in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Others in the case are signed, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Director Konráðsdóttir Konádótsdótttir, Linik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, and Einarsson's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u78	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in the law on personal treatment, abduction. I'd like to stop for a moment at what was presented. The manager's share of the approach or possible access of the public to decision-making and access to a fair environmental trial and then rests on the information of Land Protection, which I know of. Senators of the General and Education Committee are very familiar. I'd like to ask for it from the President, and I'd like to suggest that the case be considered between 2 and 3. and that this will be discussed in a more precise way, because I believe this is being done in a very careful manner, i.e. by not listening to the indications about the fact that we have already adopted the Worker Convention in Icelandic. Truly, it was so that when the one represented in that section of the validation during the last term, then the bill went before them. The Environment Committee that it was, we could say, pulls our teeth a little bit from the bill as it came from a local environmental minister, the one here. The prosecution was removed, the possibility of the prosecution. Of course, the nations of Europe have made this a different way. The approach I proposed in terms of the bill was what is called the Latin Lacto popularis, which means that the public, independent of members, is simply a member of the environment. It doesn't have to be a party to some environmental organization, an organization that gives up so much and so much in annual accounts, etc., these formal conditions would not be the key to being involved, but would be so right that the public should be involved, simply because it became a matter of public interest, and then the general public does not have to associate with them to have a possible involvement in lawsuits like these. This is not exactly what's under here but the need for national protection to be changed, since national protection claims that it would otherwise be violated by an international agreement validated by Iceland in 2011. Then we're talking about the basis of the validation. For indeed, although the bill has been presented in such radical terms at the time and has not gone so far, it is in Icelandic legislation. National Protection thus argued that in the billing process, it was not sufficiently safe that the public has full and unacquainted access to information on the involvement of the public and the righteous environmental treatments. In this case, we are referring to the fact that only individuals can enjoy the opportunity to be aggressive in the traditional sense. Of course, we're not talking about environmental rights in this particular case. Rather, we're talking about a bill to correct a change in civil law. I have a certain understanding that this formal logic is not relevant to the Ásar Treaty in this case. But I would like to direct it to the Committee that it reviews between the 2nd and 3rd. and discuss how these views can be handled in a more precise way than the members of a committee study. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason recommended. If we are talking about the principles discussed here, the possibility of an environmental organization for failure is, in effect, being completely expedient. It considers national protection to be a good guide in not agreeing with the International Convention, which is not only environmental but also also a public involvement in the opinion and access of the public. As a matter of fact, D.C., D.P., D.C., D.C., D.A., D., D.A., D.C., D.A., D., T., T., T.A., T., T.A., T., T., T., T.I., T., T., T., T.I., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., E., E., E.I.I.E.E.E.E.E.E., and the E.E.E., the E.E.E., and the E., the E.E.I.E.E.E.E., and the E., the E., the E., the E.E.E. of D.E., the E.E. is a.,.E. of D., the E., the's., the E., the E.E.E., the E.E.E.I., the E., the E., the E.E.E., the E. I.I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I., and the E., and the E., and the E. I. I. I. I., and the E. I. I. I. I. I., D. I. I. I. I. I. There are no such special requirements in Iceland that specifically deal with the environmental rights to the courts. This type of law does not exist in Icelandic courts that deal specifically with this matter. Rather, the environmental legislation deals with both the material aspects of the environment and the process and the development of affairs in the government. Thus, as indicated in the argument of Land Protection, it is very difficult to identify the speciality of the Ministry of State to refer to these comments, and indeed the rational support of the Ministry of State cannot resist this reference. It is a significant step if by this change we would be, in effect, to agree that environmental organizations would not be able to gain a bribe to the court. Even if the organization was involved. Even if we are not arguing about our involvement in harmony with the Ásar Treaty. This is the case in the case of national protection today at the Supreme Court. Even if we were talking about the environment in which there were very rich interests in which many were protected. Because I know the work of the General and Education Committee, and I sat there during the first session of this election, and I know that there is every member of the council that wants the person to approach matters with responsibility and on the basis of material reason, I want to make this proposal and to request that the case be taken to the Committee to review these views specifically. It cannot be the desire of the Generals, especially, to push environmental organizations away from the possibility of enjoying the right to the courts. Therefore, national protection against the approval of the bill remains, and it provides a very clear suggestion for the rendering of any form of change. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir will submit as an arrangement between the 2nd and 3rd. Likely, then, it will. The General and Education Committee will then offer a suggestion at the meeting of the Committee that will now take place after this discussion is concluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u79	V.E.G. President. I just wanted to give a brief talk on this subject. We'll discuss this with a review of a change in the law on personal treatment or the conditions of failure. Before going to the points I would like to discuss, I would like to agree with them. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason, who commended the Ministry of Internal Affairs for bringing a job from the Ministry to the county office where he encouraged other departments to do the same work. I think it's very important to strengthen the county office that we have throughout the country, and strengthen these bases, and I'll take my heart away. Senator. I'm going to discuss in this short speech one of the marked elements of the bill discussed in a committee study of the greater part of the General and Education Committee. Two. 2.g. The bill stipulates that the Minister can further issue the conditions of the application. The majority estimate is that in view of the authority on the limitation of apetism, it is necessary to set the normal income guidelines and direct it to the Ministry to look to them for a look at their point when changing the Regulation. I must welcome these words to the greater part of the General and Education Committee and also to the highest degree to those views. Secretary of the state and the Ministry. In this context, today's income is not allowed to exceed 2 million per person per year. That means about 166 you. K. per month. If you are married or married, there are 3 million income limits. If these incomes were evenly divided between these parties, it would be 125 yous. K. a monthly income per person or a total of 250 yous. K. The income for married couples. Let's put these figures in the context of the lowest wage or compensation in the country today, the full unemployment rates are 202 you. K. During a month and the lowest improvement in social security, according to a new bill, there are 212 you. K. There we know that low incomes are involved. Thus, it is of particular interest that the standard of spending is as low as it really is. It is therefore very important that this should be revised in a Regulation that I know is being revised within the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I wanted to put this brief talk to rest only on my mind. Also, I wanted to remind you that I was with someone else. The members of Parliament made a suggestion here during the fall, that is, the matter of Congress No. 29th It was with the one standing here. Council members of Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Willum Þórsson Þorsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Páll Valur Björnsson, and Pétursdóttir, the daughter of St. Minister of state to revise revenue criteria that are conditional. The minister reviewed them as a co-work centre in preparation for a bill to correct the changes in the law we discuss here, but both in the history of the Supreme Court. The Minister of Ministers and the Committee to Speak Here will be subject to the variation by the Regulation. With the permission of the President, I would like to read a little from the report that follows this proposal. An essay with the proposal also says: Hence, the target limit is very low. In fact, they are so low that the applicant who lives alone has to make money under the minimum wage and if he is married and the total income of the candidate and the mate is less than 3 billion. K. a year This means that each income must be considerably below the minimum wage. At the same time, these revenue targets are far below the Ministry of Health, which, according to one person's cost of living over 234 levels. K. per month without expenses. These regulations of the Regulation were last changed to December 2010, with Regulation No. 1059/2010, but then they were elevated, as previously said in 2 billion. K. 3 billion, on the other hand. K. in the total pay and it can be considered at that time as a very low criterion. Since that time, the index price has increased by more than 15% but the regulations of the Regulation are in place. In view of the transporters I listed above, it is clear that these criteria need to be reviewed in case of a failure to be a practical means of earning people. The movers believe that it is important for all individuals to bring their rights to the courts if this is true regardless of their economic status. Clearly, for example, there is a difference between individuals and financial companies. I just wanted to be here in this short speech, reminding you of this proposal and the importance of your reevaluation. In this way, I have presented these viewpoints and have covered my case. I also make up a section of the General and Education Committee in its Committee, the importance of reevaluating these criteria.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u80	A respectable president. I'm here recommending a pan-European and educational committee for proposals for the interpretation of the Import Board's implementation programme for the 2016-52019 year. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a number of visitors, and the committee has received reviews from 16 sources. It should be noted that there was a concomitant review of the implementation plans for immigrants and the implementation of an equal rights programme so that guests who came on account of either of these topics discussed both of them. In 2012, the first development program for emigrants'affairs to be adopted by law on the affairs of immigrants is the one that has been under way. They say that a minister should propose at the General Assembly a resolution of a four - year strategy in the affairs of immigrants as well as the counsel of other councils, institutions, multihumanisations, and embassies. The aim of the program is to contribute to a community where all can be active participants regardless of nationality or background. Emphasis is placed on five key factors: society, family, education, employment markets, and refugees. The aim is to provide equal opportunities for all the population, regardless of individual factors and circumstances in a community without separation so that each individual can have the opportunity to enjoy themselves independently and to enrich the community. Along with the proposal, the Department of Social and Home Affairs reports on the status and development of immigrants'affairs are submitted in 2016. The report gives further statistical support to the actions selected in the implementation program for this time. First, the community service is discussed. In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the number of immigrants. These changes include new social patterns, new challenges, and opportunities. In the context of the implementation plan, it highlights the opportunity to present the different cultural background of the people of the country and the knowledge of immigrants to promote Icelandic society. Special attention is given to community attitude, community involvement with immigrants, and their access to Kingdom and rural services. The A.1 team considers attitudes. Their results will be preserved in sociology, but this is a work of the Habitat and the Ministry of Health. The Commission agrees with the viewpoint expressed in the Office's review that it is more clearly identified as a partner in the project and therefore suggests changes to the subject, as well as several changes in word. The review of the Teacher Union suggested that all schools participate in the presentation project. This proposal involves denaturation of the operation, which suggests that the community as a whole is the target population. Then it was also shown in the Law of the Teachers'Association that there is a reason to evaluate the attitude of the immigrants themselves. The committee agrees. In order to assess the effectiveness of various measures in the programme, it is important to the Committee to gain knowledge of the attitudes and experience of immigrants in important community matters. Adds the committee to the adjustment of the purpose of the plan of the material and adds to the new proverb: ▪ To gain knowledge of the attitudes and experiences of immigrants involved in vital community matters. The Commission points out that research is being done in this field in the college community, and there is a conclusion from a study on the wide variety of discrimination developed by the Multiculture Agency in cooperation with Iceland's Human Rights Office and the Social Science Institute for the University of Iceland. In the opinion of the Committee, it is important that this project is based on the basis there. In A.5's, A.5 talks about the convention of immigrants. The committee points out that this is a seminar that aims for immigrants to be key participants and orderly. The entire immigrant group does not exist here, and it was noted that they would need to provide funds and time to work on their establishment. The Committee suggests that there is a way to apply for strength through the Importer's development fund for the purpose of the fund, but the purpose of the fund is to promote research and development projects on the fields of immigrants with the aim of helping immigrants to adapt to Icelandic society and to enable society to meet them better. The family development program stresses explaining information to immigrants first after their arrival in the country, giving further insight into their circumstances in the market, and working on improving the interest of immigrants in housing. In particular, support will be given to groups of emigrants who have broken their feet and lack support in this country. You will also be working on increasing the participation of children and young immigrants in organized sports and youth activities. In Unit B.1, the first team in the family service, we will discuss the cooperation of key institutions involved in the registration of foreign citizens. The Committee believes that it is right to add Haust to the Agency as a partner, where it allows for administrative data to be used in official statistics for immigrants and their interests. The model for the welcome program is discussed in Unit B.2. This is a list of measures to make it easier for the rural communities to set up a welcome plan and work systematically to accept and share information to immigrants. The committee suggests that the name of the operation will be changed to become a country partner welcome plan and that the criteria will be clearer in the proposal, so that at least 15 rural communities have formally adopted a welcome plan at the end of 2019. The committee suggests the change that the results of the procedure will not only be the model for a welcome plan but also the inclusion of a welcome plan in the majority of rural society. Team B.6 includes participation in sports and youth activities. It was noted that the results of this operation were based solely on children, but the goal was to increase the participation of children and young people in organized youth activities. The committee considers this indication to be valid and suggests that the procedure also includes youths and sports and leisure activities. It was also suggested that the result of the procedure involves increased skills in Icelandic and more social functioning. The committee agrees with the suggestion and suggests a change. The support given to women who have had domestic violence is discussed in B.7. The Commission notes that an economist has a legal obligation to work on the prevention of sexual violence in cooperation with other governments and organizations that take special precautions. Is the committee right to say that an equal practice will be a team member during the operation. It is also the Commission's assessment that it is important to emphasize prevention when it comes to domestic violence and its consequences and to suggest changes in the action involved. The education is a third part of the strategy. It highlights equal positions and equal opportunities for education as well as the evaluation of the knowledge and experience of immigrants. Work diligently against the withdrawal of immigrants from schools, supported by all schools, and improving the quality and supply of Icelandic education. Article C.1 discusses equal opportunities for study. The committee suggests changes in wording on the purpose of the procedure and suggests that youths will also be submitted to the task force. The scale of the programme determines that there will be an even greater equation between students in the PISA survey in 2018 and then above the average OECD countries. The Committee believes that these criteria are not sufficiently clear, i.e. it is too extensive, and a clearer measure of the operation is that it reduces the distinction between the interpretation of immigrants and the natives of the PISA assay. Enrollment of C.2 is done on active binary/polysaccharides. It says that all students in elementary and high school are being taught the language skills of 2017. In view of the different ways in which a witness is followed by study evaluation and testimony, the committee believes that it is more appropriate to put these words in order for regular study evaluations to explain whether and in what way a student is being taught in a native language rather than the emphasis on the witness as such. The committee makes adjustments in this regard. Joint C.3 requires measures for removal from studies. It is concluded that the purpose and outcome of the procedure is not to be carried out by the Committee, which is designed to change the purpose of the procedure. The objective must be to increase the number of students who have a second language in English, who pass their school goals at the end of high school, who are enrolled in high school, and who formally graduate from high school. A fourth foundation is a labour market. The workforce of the work programme shows that it should be emphasized that immigrants have equal opportunities and rights to others in the labour market as well as that immigrants in the labour market offer increased opportunities for re-educing and working-related studies that will strengthen their network. The D.2 team considers pay equals in the labour market. As the results of the procedure show that the Haust Office is required to perform a pay analysis, the Commission is well pleased to agree that the Agency will also cooperate with the Agency on this project. The fifth support of the plan is for refugees. It highlights the affairs of refugees and their uniqueness when they first arrive in the country. Regardless of how they arrive in the country and actively participate in the community, research, and better information, particularly is emphasised on a uniform and improved reception. For refugees, E.2 is the subject of education and counseling. The opinions were to the Committee that it was right that the Ministry of Education and Culture would also be a team member during the operation. The committee agrees with this and suggests a change. The printing schedule had dropped the last lines of the joints E.3, E.4, and E.5, i.e. the results. The committee suggests changes in these joints, which includes intended results reflecting the objective of the procedure. Finally, the Court considers that such cooperation is a key factor in ensuring that the objectives of the programme will be fully accomplished. The committee suggests that the Council's resolution will be adopted with the adjustment proposed in a special Senate document. In view of this, Geir Jón Þórisson, Hrafn Gunnarsson Grensisdótttir, Jóhanna, Ólína, Kjerúlf, and Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, author and second vice president. Guðmundur Steingrímsson and Haraldur Einar Einarsson were away at the hearing. Finally, I would like to thank the members and visitors for their cooperation with the work and contributions for the adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u81	A respectable president. There's a lot to celebrate at a council these days. At times, this is a good subject that is worth supporting, and you must be grateful to be put forward to seem at peace. It seems to me that the general discussion has taken an extraordinary interest in this subject. Lately, we have heard a great deal about the new alien law and certainly the old. This discussion has been marked by ignorance toward the law itself and the whole litany. There is nothing else to expect. People think they're more free than they are moving here, thinking that foreign languages in general function in a way that they really do. I think it's difficult, complicated, expensive, and it's just the same for people outside the EEA who move here. The program we are discussing here is, in many ways, the answer we should give when asked: What do you want to do? There are many people in the community who insist that we be more harsh and boring with foreigners who want to move here. When you refuse to close the border and you pretend that Iceland can be an isolated island in the ocean, it's asked, "What are we gonna do when all this goes wrong?" What are we going to do, and how are we gonna treat this? The answer is: We should welcome people. It's number one, two and three, to welcome people and to be realistic in the group. How sad it is that they boast of a reality that seems to have little understanding of the whole group of languages and that we have extremely unrealistic ideas about how to prevent and solve problems and what to do with them; act as if we can keep people outside the cliffs, as if we can stop offering for refuge, as we can reduce the loss of a home, or the international protection as it is called! It's unrealistic and in a certain way, I'm not saying childish, but something like that. There is no connection with any practical way to deal with the world's problems today, including the refugee problem and other problems that lead to mobilization for any reason, either war or anything. When we talk about solutions like this, no one comes and protests outside, protests that we are spending money on it. Why not? Because this is simply a good idea, and even those against foreigners should be able to see it. At least that's how I'm going to interpret it, and I hope it's that way. Those good people can only correct me out here if they want to. There is one thing in this matter that I must criticize, as is true of many who sent in a review. We tend to subsidize this group of litigators. I'm afraid that's also the case here. It is rather typical, and it hardly seems to be the jury that there is no complaint against his lack of money. But it seems to you that there are a lot of people who feel that money is spent in this category. But it is an investment in people, and it is fundamental to understanding that people are a burden on economic systems - fundamental problems. Economic systems are nothing but a collection of people and their economic interactions. This is not to say that they cannot become problems with sudden population growth, whether they are immigrants or not. For example, the insides need to grow stronger. Such measures, for example, require that authorities be willing to handle matters wisely. The public, the culture itself, must be prepared for it. I know that the Icelanders have been long but isolated, so they say, even though some historians recently told me that this is not entirely correct. In any case, it is - w. A senator just knocks me off a little bit. [[A nation of people from the land mines age.]] But that's how we're not in isolation right now, and we can't pretend we're gonna be isolated in the future. We cannot afford to give up responsibility for accepting people. There is nothing we can give up. The question is, How will we do so wisely, realistically? The wise course is not to close the border or to act as if people who need international protection do not need international protection. We cannot act as if the way is to cut down in this group of languages. It takes money to do this well. We can try to do this well. I know it's the purpose of this suggestion to do it well; you're on the lookout for financing and such things, but most of the things that cost money are meant to be the one to be saved. The more we accept people who want to move here, the better they are for them, and also for society itself. They often need one factor that we politicians don't control, that's how our culture accepts the foreigners who move here. I think it is one of the most important things to prevent the problems that the critics of foreigners, such as I intend to call them in this speech, fear most, with problems where, for example, cultural conflict or religious differences, or something like it, creates all sorts of social problems, which can certainly happen. I don't know about anyone who disagrees with that. All I know is about people who want to treat them with calmness and reason, and people who want to treat them by denying that we have to deal with them, as we can push them away so that we don't have to take them and deal with them. I think that's unrealistic, that's what I think is a mistake. This interpretation proposal is designed to try to handle the situation well. I wondered what the discussion would be like if people came out here to the East and began to object that we put money on the job to help people find a job or to object to how to teach Icelandic. Hardly. It costs money. Everyone should agree. Everyone should agree that we need to spend money on this, but the question has to be in what way. I think we should do so in the most upbuilding way. Of course, border protection needs to be taken. We have a border patrol against what many think. There's no plan to lay her down. We are involved in a variety of international cooperation to promote border guard against what many think, but if there was one approach in this series of subjects that would require funding to prevent the problems fear of foreigners, it is like this; wholesome approaches that are intended to help, not because we are extremely good and others are extremely bad, but because it is reasonable. It is realistic, balanced, and necessary. I'm not going to have any more words on this occasion, a respectable president. I'm celebrating this case. Finally, I'd like to say that I don't fully understand why this matter is not as spoken as if the alien law were probably the most misunderstood of the laws in the whole country and that's enough to be taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-19-153.u82	Mr. President. It is a happy day to have an opportunity to have a story in a proposal to conclude with the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people. Happy day I say because this is what many of us have fought for long. This is not the first time such a suggestion has been made. This has been done many times over the years. I want to be especially grateful for this occasion. The head of the State Department for the management of the case on the committee, for it is proved true that such matters have probably not gone through so quickly. Foreign Affairs and this. This is not because the committee has thrown its hands to action, as it were. It may have been that before the council was proposed, using the same word given by several general members of the council. It had been worked on a program on a universal and educational committee and a welfare committee and a special report written on it. That was a suggestion. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller was 1st transporter. On the basis of the work approved by the State Department, the matter got so fast and still a good tip on the Foreign Affairs Committee. The committee gives special attention to the fact that it is not unusual on the part of the government that it has taken so long to validate this remarkable contract that brings out the rights of disabled persons. This is because it has been ten years since the resolution of the case at the UN General Assembly, and it is now a half - tenth year since the signing of the contract on the historic date of March 30, 2007. On that day Iceland signed the contract together with 80 other countries. Since then, it has been a very long time before we have reached the stage where all the wings of the council seem to agree to reach validation. Now it is time to state that the length of the journey is considerable. This matter began to be prepared with a special proposal for the development of a plan for the disabled who was approved in 2012. A part of the plan was for the validation to be completed by the end of 2014. The work then started would lead to a team employed as a smoldering law in an effort to define what would have to be done in Icelandic rights to validate the contract in such a way that it would be necessary for Icelandic law to change from its source. It took longer than they originally planned, but this was over, and this is where there is a proposal on the European Commission that is enjoying, on the basis of previous discussions, is fully supported by all political parties in Iceland. That's fine. I said it was a happy day because this is a case we have fought for the rights of the disabled for a very long time have been waiting. It is especially true of those who are disabled, and of those who are worthy of honor, for those who have constantly pressured the legislatator and carried out the validation of this remarkable agreement. Even though the contract does not necessarily add to new improvements, it does guarantee that the human rights of disabled persons are accepted just as with the human rights of others. This contract confirms the right of disabled people to enjoy the same rights that everyone else has. The goal is for disabled people to enjoy all human rights and all the freedom of the human race and to the full, while they are supposed to protect and ensure such rights and at the same time increase respect for natural human dignity. Commenting on the synonym, the reason for the development of this particular international human rights contract on the rights of disabled persons is the fact that despite the reputation of disabled people and the legal system in most nations, including Iceland, the same rights as others, there are not many legal reasons that enable them to apply these rights. The Convention places a clear responsibility in the Member States in order to honor and ensure the right of disabled persons to enjoy human rights to the same extent that others do. Thus it can be said that the core of this remarkable agreement will turn toward equality, but as we know, equality is guaranteed in 65rd. the constitutions of our good republic. The legal rights involved in this deal are of a wide variety of ways. They're even. Equality and ban on any form of discrimination. The contract is to ensure the right to life, freedom and immunity. He is to ensure that his rights are equal to those of others and that he is free to avoid the misuse of money, violence, and abuse. It is to include and ensure the right to physical and spiritual immunity, the right to lead an independent life, and no separateness in society. These are the basics to which the contract will clean up. The Convention also gives special attention to areas where Member States have to take special measures and in a way that enables disabled persons to enjoy their rights, as having rights and making use of them is not the same as having them. The purpose of the contract is to spend the distance between them. For this reason it can be said that the treaty puts the responsibility of creating the situation within its own ranks that disabled people can use their human rights to the same extent as others. It is futile, however, to make a contract that is filled with good words without making it clear that certain guidelines based on observation are being nailed in order to ensure the implementation of the contract. Therefore, it is recommended in the terms of the contract that Member States should have one or more centres within the administrative organisation, which have the task of paying for the implementation of the contract. It also obligates Member States to establish a system that monitors the implementation of the Convention within the country, thereby implementing principles for the role and activities of national institutions in protecting and implementing human rights. The International Monitoring, however, is based on the appointment of an independent U.S. experts to investigate the state of the rights of the disabled people in this country, the degree of their loyalty, and the extent of the operation that is being carried out. The United Nations Commission shall regularly report to Iceland and work out comments and suggestions to Iceland on what can be done better by the contract. And, behold, it came to pass, and to mention it, that in time. A significant discussion of the decision-making process was made by the foreign committee. True, it would have been much better if we too could have settled her validation now, but this time it was strongly said that there would need a different decision, in which it was proposed that there be an approved consent only to the agreement itself. The committee also stresses that by accepting this proposal, it is also by the General Declaration that the Council will give them legal pioneers a course that will still agree with the important rights of disabled persons to whom the contract is protected. This is a significant law code that we will yet see. When I'm at the highest. To this matter, the minister of the minister of foreign affairs gave just a list of some basics that will yet be presented. They may not be finished, but hopefully they'll be the first. You can, for example, do so. Note that it is written on the basis of giving a bill for the services of disabled persons, as well as a bill for changing the law on local social services, and there is one very strange thing that the Icelanders have not yet brought to law, which is a prohibition against discrimination. It is quite remarkable that there are no such laws in the EFTA countries, however, in all EU countries, which are part of the social rights that this relationship has approved. Also, the legal framework of an independent human rights institution to be followed by the implementation of the contract is still to be arranged, and I was able to deal with earlier in my history. Also, there will be reviews and possible changes in counseling and training laws regarding pregnancy, sexual activity, abortion, and sterilization. It is clear, then, that making a decision to validate this agreement is a major step in ensuring the human rights of a group that has been given a distinct object. In recent years we have taken many steps to promote human rights in Iceland. In the past decade, it can be said that a wave of such laws began with the political change that took place in the leading part of the present system of things. paritaprevir Geir H. Haardes. Since then, each fire has driven another, but there has always been a need for the rights of disabled ones to follow the rights of others. I don't know how big a group is in Iceland that can be counted as disabled Icelanders. The other I know, and it says in the report, that on a global scale 10% of all of them fall into that group. [[Up front.]] And most likely Icelanders get that number too, so this is probably the largest minority in Iceland. We should have taken care of this matter, and should have done so long ago, but sometimes all the years must meet up with one or the same bad habit to make big changes. The change we're here for is not going anywhere, but this is a giant step taken in support of the struggle for the increased rights of the disabled. As I said at the beginning of my talk, I am grateful to the chairman of the committee for her understanding of this matter. Also, I am grateful to those members of the previous discussions who were very positive about this matter. I also say that I'm not sure that if not two things had happened, it would have been done, first of all, the motion that hadn't been made. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller moved along with 12 other members of the council, leading to the initial preparatory work already being done. The minister of foreign affairs made a good suggestion. Without the two convergences that fit together, we may not have been able to reach this point during this brief period of time. We're about... to complete it, and to wish the members of the Parliament and the Generals, and especially the disabled Icelanders and all those who are fighting for their rights to congratulate themselves on this happy day.
