ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u1	The president considers it possible for a meeting meeting to last longer than the Council to be needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u2	A respectable president. I recommend a committee party from the 1st smaller section of the budget board. I opened my discussion earlier today about the budget bill itself by explaining why it is proposed by my 1st section. Because of unusual circumstances, the representatives of the panels sitting on the staff are written under this committee, but they do not have much more. In 2016, there was a historic year in terms of government matters. This financial bill, which, in fact, is number two in the series of budget-altering bills during this fall, reflects brilliantly. We were moving into the state fund of stability, the product of the growth of the fish farms, that which is the reversal of the nation's population, and setting things straight. There are signs in this budget bill, as in the budget, which was valid for this year. Let's hope we don't see for another time as much as we're going to experience on the budget of this year. It is also a turning point in the fact that for the last time, we are discussing a financial bill based on the law that has been valid in recent years on financial matters. The new legal structure of the state's budget is being addressed in ways much less necessary than we have had to use it in recent years. They contain preconceived reserves of lawsuits to deal with unexpected events. Or it may be the sole responsibility of the budget committee, as well as financial contributions, to do not much more than what is defenders have to do with the financial provisions involved, to respond to unexpected expenses, and unexpected circumstances. Whatever our opinion, in recent years, this has been our primary project. I will not trace the details of our changes to the budget bill as it came from the highest level. Secretary of the budget of the 1st. and in his story, only to say that this is a major deviation of plans. Here, for example. about 30 billion increases in taxes that were not expected in the budget. We've seen a significant variation in interest, and we're seeing very major variations in mails, which at least I would have thought we could have a more advanced plan for and more developed. I would like to mention this, a respectable president, for it is of enormous importance, whether it is a financial committee, state agencies, or just a general country, that the design is solid and powerful so that we can build our plans for the future. Based on today's financial and high - speed wastes, this may not want to follow the book completely in this regard, but the role of the funds is just to bring in this bonus that struck our shores, but not unexpectedly. Today's discussion has also made it very clear that we are doing what we want to do. The budget is designed to specifically examine the health status of the health system and the health institutions. Also, there are signs of a certain amount of money. We make changes in transport expenses because during the year disaster and damage to marine protection are natural enough for us to break up funds. We also make the adjustment to make an additional amount of money for humanitarian reasons and for the situation in Syria that I think everyone must understand. We're going into the budget, which is now scheduled to be taken out of the Bank of Iceland, which is fully owned by the state of the country this year. We also make additional donations to the health institutions to cope with unexpected situations they have lived in, and we do not necessarily recognize in our strategy so far, but we are now trying to save the financial situation. A respectable president. I'm not going to have many words in the past about this committee opinion other than to say that this is the last time we're going to do it this way. It may also serve as a reminder that when we are working on such a strategy, we are careful. I'm going to allow me to tell you at this conversation, a respectable president, that I feel that there is no need for an information stream to go to. The legal committee should be just as sure as they work their business. It's something we should take on and work with, not make it sound like a problem. I'm going to allow myself, a respectable president, to open up a conversation that has caused a certain temperature about the extra funds. It's such a big deal to suggest about 100 million. K. The market budget for lamb meat was in my opinion all the other items of the budget bill. I think it's fine that we talk it like all other things because it's controversial. My point of view is that we decided as a nation to participate in a business venture against Russia because of a Ukraine dispute, and this has had a tremendous impact on Europe's livestock market. There have been major problems there. In the past, whether by natural disasters or by government decisions, we have extended our efforts to help those who have been affected by such factors. I just want to reiterate that I find the proposal for this financial bill in full harmony with it and in the normal way with what we've done before, and with the many large and a lot of props as such. The European Union has had to drive to solve domestic problems and meet farmers and farm prices. I feel that there is no reason to mention this in my background speech to show that the arrangements we are making with this suggestion are in no way that we can set some metering bar to see if enough has come into the market of lamb. This is due to the cost of the food branch because of government decision to participate in a business venture. A respectable president. I've finished my story.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u3	President. Despite very good cooperation with the Committee, there was an enormous lack of time to review the funds. All the time the committee used these negotiations. As a result, 2nd reduces the treatment of the budget board on the bill for financial support by 2016. The matter was taken from a committee with minimal introductions from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and a minimal consideration of the changes aside from a joint legal hearing to a budget bill by 2017 and to a financial aid bill on what is discussed here. 43s and 44. Is It Wrong to Refuse the State? No. 88/1997, which has now been canceled, but this financial bill says: If necessary, the bill for financial aid should be consulted for more resources than the budgets of the year are to be expected. The power of unannounced incidents, agreements, or new legislation is required, as specific means of budgeting that were not anticipated in the budget of the year should be consulted in the bill for financial support. In addition, it can be noted that in the new official financial law, No. 123/2015, preferably the law's main thought that funding should be used only in exceptional circumstances or, as stated in Article 26. who still sharpens the thinking of the older law, by permission of the president: If necessary, a secretary is allowed to look for additional financial resources in the bill for financial support to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget, although they have not been able to cope with the resources specified in these laws. In a follow-up with a bill for funding, the exchange of funds to the Member State and to-dos should be reported, cr. Twenty-niner. At the contributions of the changes made to the bill for financial support at the General Assembly, their impact on the total wealth, its commitment, and other criteria for financial planning should be evaluated. Thus, the main thought of older and new laws is that the increased financial resources are not searched unless there is an unforeseen incident. As mentioned in the introduction, the committee received a minimal introduction to the budget bill and a very limited time to study its unique articles. However, part 2 was asking for a memory sheet from the State Department on the welfare of the Church and the Christian Fund, where the bill refers to the church meeting as a reason for the rise in its growth. A smaller section requested calculations and detailed worksheets explaining the increases as well as the information on other agreements or commitments between the state and the State, their duration, and the grounds that could lead to financial expenditures. At the same time, the Ministry's assessment of the commitment and support of this commitment were required. They were looking for calculations. In response to the Ministry it is considered that part 2 of my memory does not provide sufficient answers to the above questions. At least the required calculations did not follow the answer. Therefore, part 2 could not be determined whether the charge would be in accordance with the authority to allow the expenses to be unforeseen. As an old contract, it is difficult to see a second smaller portion, based on available data, that the cost as measured is considered unpredictable. For one thing, the report says that by 2015 the Church refused to take on the wrongs that they were making in the collapse. It is therefore difficult to see that there has been unexpected and unforeseen expenses in 2016. I'd like to read from the State Department's answer, by permission of the President: ▪ The European Convention is a 1997 agreement between the State and the National Church that churches and other churches, apart from the clergy, become property against the government's future pay for a certain number of church priests and other employees, as well as an additional 1998 agreement for its further implementation. State commitments under the agreement were followed by laws on the status, administration and practices of the National Church, No. 78/1997, compares to 60 Gs I don't see that the source they're looking for can be unpredictable. In the memo sent by the State Department as an answer to the inquiry, there was not enough information, and I will look for ways to get satisfying answers later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u4	Madam President. Now we're going to talk about a budget bill. There's a couple of big punches in between. In many ways, I can agree with that. The final speaker mentioned what to do and what not to do. It's just that there's something that doesn't fit in the framework of each Ministry. However, the practice has somehow been such that some joints intervening, which surely can be said to be somewhat unpredictable. If we are going to be very rigid about this, we could say that these 50 million whom we are putting in an emergency aid to Syria are not ahead of time. The war in Syria is not new. Of course, we put these 50 million in and even do more. Sometimes the need to break the law, and we take our stand on many things, even if it is not for the financial resources. Of course, it is not good when the frame is unappreciated, regardless of who it is at any given time. I love the work of the Committee, and I want to use this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the Committee for a very good cooperation. This has been a very interesting job in financing and financing, and it has been quite clear that people can compromise. It can be done. I think it's a big deal, and I find it a happy breakthrough in the history of the Generals. The items taken into account in the budget are also part of shutting down the law. I'd like to thank the staff who's been working with us on this too. It is safe to say that the rest period has not been respected by the staff who work late in the morning trying to put the matter together, the nature of the case, where things are going very fast, and most people want to try to finish before Christmas. Just to get back on the stage for the war in Syria and for humanitarian assistance, I have to mention the sad fact that 39,000 civilians have fled from East O far off and 6,000 are staying in a refugee camp. They're trying to make some kind of shelter where we got something to do with it. Of course it's a drop in the ocean. A lot more would have to be put in this package, as I said before. Of these 50 million, 25 million go to the United Nations Refugee Organization and 25 million go to the United Nations Children's Fund, i.e. UNICEF, Syria I'd like to come on a few things. I will begin by taking my own opinion, as the budget bill was not made until December 14 because this is the second budget bill. I have to say, even if this case was settled amongst all groups, we would have left with greens and thought that there would have been a lot more money than this, including. in hospitals and clinics that we know are many of the problems we face. Then I will not demean the support that has already been done by means of the financial bill, the final financial laws, and the next budget. But better if it's enough, it's safe to say. Of course, because of today's discussion of the Land Hospital, we are in a position to follow it closely after everything is done and also to respond immediately and follow through if it does not work. We've been through our income a lot here. They are wonderful in the form of interest rates, stability contributions, and other items that may soon end in much of the time. Of course, the way they have been protected matters. We haven't been in agreement about that. One of the small things in the big context is, for example, Funding for the University of Education in Akureyri, which is supposed to be a source of expenses for changing the school's years of work. It's too small, it's too small, it's too small, and it's not enough for the project, which means that the school will have to take over a money we know is not enough for this high school to go on. This can mean no greater business than that there is not enough room for when the maladies have been tightened for some years. Most schools and government agencies complain even. of never getting less than 80% of the remunerations added. When it comes, like now, the price of change, bargain contracts, or anything like that, the institutions feel almost always when they arrive at a panel meeting that they will receive only a fraction of it. I would've also wanted to see more money running for D.A. I'm worried about the agency. It plays a significant role in the national security and resources, and I think it is our duty to be better involved in its operation and to have as I say I would like to see more. It has been observed by the director of the mortgage that he believes it takes about 300 million a year just to keep seawater, i.e. keep the helicopter in place, and the ship that has, of course, acquired income other than it is clear that the next year will not be next. It may look better in 2018 when it is not in hand than it needs to be handled. 100 million come in through the budget and 75 million here. There's something very important, and I hope this doesn't happen, despite the lack of either canceling the helicopter contracts or laying down the ship. We left greens that we would have wanted to see that in December alone, the same as do wage workers at that time. This has been done before. A former minister, the late Divine Guðbjartur of Hannesson, did so, so there are precedents. As we have talked about here in the past, each person sees that his salary is not acceptable. This kind of payment costs too little to be taken away from us, some 900 million I understand. I would have liked to see them come here. We are to make sure that the need for advancement is recognized in society and that the payment is in harmony with it. I'd also like to make some changes about the town's ranch on Sigluld. This suggests a certain amount of money that I have doubts about being counted correctly. We need to call for more information in order to meet this problem. This is a 60 - year - old dock that had become dangerous. She was made a great improvement, and she was dedicated just before the election. It's the rest layer on Siglusar land, and it was about that in front of the docks there was a lot of sand and it had to deepen, for the ships were very careful. In order not to compromise the safety of seafarers, it was decided to engage in the project, i.e. to deepen, despite the lack of financial resources to do so. Of course, there's not much work to be done first and then ask, but it was clear that the construction would not have been useful, so it would have been safe if it hadn't been done. Part of all of this is that there's also a change in law. It fell out of the transport program when the law changed in 2003, which actually did not apply until 2008, but later, in December 2014, new laws came rejections. At that time, she was stable again, and this attack was under full force. I think we need to take a closer look. The number of docks has been extremely limited for many years. Of course, there are many reasons not only for the collapse but also for the past. The harbors were not enough for them. I also criticized that there is not enough money for these new legal laws. Money lacks to accept any application that is already aware of its entrance to Vega, so it is recognized that there is a considerable lack of capital. This is one of the things rural society can't attack because they don't have the bolts to do it alone. Suggested by 120 million. K. There is also something that we need to discuss here and perhaps learn from primarily - because it was canceled. This is a lot of money, and much can be done with it. This is something that is very important to consider when a government switch takes place. If some project is well established or exalted as a new government, I don't think it's one of the things we need to consider. Are we ready for that kind of sacrifice? That's a lot of money. We're talking small amounts of money to a lot of people, these are large amounts. I think we need to examine it very carefully. I can't let it go by a little recording and taking less than 4th in terms of child support and growth, as I talked to you about the budget. There is extreme shame that the decrease threshold has not been updated. All too many fall overboard just because the limit has not been elevated. They're very low, 200,000 when child support starts to get damaged. It's under the minimum, even under the microchip if you can talk about it. It's totally unacceptable. Finally, there is something that makes you happy, which is good for Christmas, and it is the decision that the state's funds are going to set aside to buy money on the earth the bridges of a jingle that we know is one of the incomparable natural bulbs of the South Coast. I like to know that the state will possess this national treasure. I count, indeed, and have said it quite often, a great and powerful reason for it, and we see in the light of the reports of the purchases of parts of Gímur in the Mountains, important that we wander some vision of whether we want to buy the pearls that are for sale like Geys, which I feel should be owned by the state, not by some private person who can carry people or charge for it. President. I think I'm gonna call it a day. Nothing can be said about something that has been done. However, more things we might like to add to the left green and others would like to do, but this is part of the agreement, and it's only good that we can squeeze something in here that might not have been.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u5	Madam President. I'd like to recommend Committee 4 my share of the legal committee. Investment bill 2016 is special for many reasons. High sums are in both the bill and in the modifications and the pay and income gates. The largest increase in taxes is about 30 billion dollars. and profit from financial contributions at 50 billion dollars. On the pay side is the largest amount of over 120 billion bucks. to the State Department of Pension. There are other unexpected and unpredictable costs, such as health care and natural disasters. I'm here in this short speech just going over four points, money clearances for child development and growth reforms that are not fully used, vandalizing the estimated money to the state, interest costs for negotiations and service contracts with health insurance and then the equivalent of pension rights that should work in a better agreement than are currently being done. A fourth smaller section severely criticizes the fact that the budget is being returned to the state budget of 2 billion dollars. which the General agreed that they would visit families in the country during 2016. There is no reason to say that this conclusion is unpredictable, but a smaller section pointed to the need to change the criteria for child development and growth improvements in debates and the committee's at the bill for funding 2016 and made a suggestion that the changes were made. The criteria allow child damage to begin at 200,000 dollars. per month. These limits have been unchanged since 2013, and their real value is clearly drawn together at the same time the pay sheet has increased by less than 30%, the real cost of child improvement is reduced by more than 12%, as well as by families paid for child damages by 12,000. During the last term, therefore, child - improvement was greatly reduced in support and income balance. Now, only 2,000 can be obtained by parents with two children at the lowest quarter of their income. in a month of child support but still belongs to the lowest quarter of the income. At that time, it is clear that the role of the child - reforming system has become distorted. Part 4 feels that it is wrong to use the child - welfare system as some kind of poverty grant, as it has been in recent years. We are to look to the Norwegian states where child reforms are not related and are designed to support family members to match their status with those who do not have children. When child damages start at 200,000 bucks. each month's pay and the parents of the contract minimum earners do not fully improve the system's balance role. The support of children's families in the country, however, is clearly worst, and some 6,000 children in the country are experiencing material deficiency, as we will see in the analysis. This situation is unacceptable, and it is very important that a government with a different emphasis than this. The same is true of the growth reform system. The improvements are mainly to focus on the earnings and the average income, and they are calculated based on income and property status. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * - 2 Corinthians 5: 7 - 7; 2 Corinthians 7: 16; 2 Corinthians 7: 1 - 4. The growth markets have not changed since 2010 but, at the same time, housing prices in the capital area have increased by 65%, 20% prices, and pay numbers by more than 50%. The criteria are all in a way that reduces the role of the child reform system and the growth reform system. Then the Conspiracy is severely critical and feels that it needs to be clearly identified how this affects families in the country. There have been cases of reduction in the income of children's families despite blundering pay rates. This is because there is too much money saved in the child's reform and growth reform systems and because property-based growth reforms do not come from the development of real estate prices. A planned plan is important to a successful government. It's just as bad to plan and plan too bad. In the event of a schedule, even important tasks are omitted that could make a difference for the future government or for the necessary services to people. It's obviously a little too bad for the business. At any given time, the Parliament must be able to trust that plans are well prepared, both in terms of income and expenses. In recent years, interest rates have been highly underestimated, and in this financial bill, it is published inaccurately for 2016, and it goes down at 50 billion dollars. Each year, health insurance is discussed in budgets, and a year's assurance of extra money is proposed to perform a forward-run according to budgets. When considering these figures, it is obvious that adjustments are needed. Products are commonly exceeded but are pronounced after the last agreement with specialists that additional financial volumes due to growth increase are lacking, i.e. More patients than expected are paid to be paid if patients are increasing in number by expert physicians. The same is true of service agreements with private servants. There are countings that raise the payments from a government fund and are provided in the budgets. However, government agencies, hospitals, health clinics, and clinics do not automatically receive extra pay because of more patients. Official organisations are designed to expand business as patients increase. When the budget decides pay for public health care, the potential for growth is not expected or is taken into account in the national age distribution. Obviously, this is the government system, and this discrimination has to be fixed. The Pension Department and the large payment to equal the rights of those in the public markets and the public markets are inside the budget bill. It would have been better to conclude that the matter had been won in greater agreement with government unions. It is important to stop the A League's tilt and shut down the unsaid palace of the public funds and there are suggestions in this bill and to expect to be approved if the pension bill is approved. Madam President. This supplementary bill can be discussed in more detail, including individual articles, etc. I'd like to mention 100 million. K. for the marketing of sheep. In the United States, we don't think it's necessary to place 100 million. K. on this commission, let us describe it in the commission work. We have made a deal, as mentioned earlier today, and it also includes the budget bill so that we will agree to a joint legal adjustment and then sit by the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u6	Madam President. I'm not going to have many words about this bill for the budget, which is now being discussed. I can say that I agree with a lot of things. The senators and my associates of the budget have previously spoken. I can even. I agree wholeheartedly that the speed of speech was tremendous and not exemplary, but on the basis of trust among the committees and the solution to the project was achieved, and I am very proud of it. In the long run, members of Parliaments have noted that the definition of unexpected expenses can be very stretchy. I believe that new laws on public financial matters that have been discussed here today on the budget and the budget will solve this in the long run. The purpose and purpose of a law on public finances is to increase transparency, increase discipline, and the perspective we need to assess the need for expenses so that I believe that the work will inevitably improve together. This time, we're trying on a little bit of this new law and this new system, except for the speed we're getting talked about, so this is an experience that we're all going to have the next time we go to this job. We're more experienced. With my share of change, I'd like to briefly review the changes in income on the bill. It is the largest of the 27 billion dollars. increase in interest rates following the approved Icelandic stockholders' meeting of special interest payments for the year. The budget has about 95% in the bank. The pay is followed by a trust fund that has to be paid for the sum of $5 billion. Which moveth both to take and to render. There is also a suggestion of 1.9 billion dollars. income for selling real estate through the Keflavour Airport Development Society. Total but income proposals 34.3 billion. There are several suggestions on the remuneration. Except for 5.4 billion bucks. income taxes on interest are the largest price of 1.5 billion dollars. proposal to make use of the government's premium that the earth falls into the South. This is what I want to stop for. I agree with what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and welcome this team in particular. She even talked about it. the newly purchased purchases of monsters in the mountains. I believe we're in that spot now that this group needs a thorough inspection and policy. I believe the state should own or at least Specifies what land should be owned by. In my opinion, Fell is on top of the list. The government has to decide before January 10th. Whether they intend to use the premarital rights of the earth to fall, so the Council needs to make a special decision. This part of a budget does not indicate that, but it opens up the possibility. The whole council needs to come to that decision if it happens, and I'm very into it. The budget bill suggests less than a billion dollars. contribution to the road construction process due to some unexpected shocks and commitments, including ... fora newlfofhers. That's 500 million under there. Then there's road work on Lake Fire, i.e. The bridge on Thomson Road was destroyed in the Skaft Rivers during heavy storms a few months ago. If financial contributions are not to meet unexpected events when disaster strikes, I don't know what makes me very happy that this project has made its way into the budget, making sure that the bridge on Skaft River Road will be repaired. The same is true of our repairs in the coastal plains of the Vikings, in the Valley of Moriscos. They went very badly during the last winter and insisted that they be fixed, since the sea's rivers in this small town are very great, and they are simply threatening people and warming up at the shore. It's a key element that there's a good cover there, that people can be safe even when the weather is intense and intense. Four suggestions for raising hospital donations were made and are part of a broader agreement that also influences a smaller portion of budgetary budgets of 2017 and final budgets for 2015. Also, I would like to stop because in the discussion on the budget a few months ago, to speak up. Chairman of the dog. The legislators, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, and other members of Parliament, emphasized that all work hard. The budget has been aimed at achieving the health system at zero points, i.e. We offer our suggestions on the budget, the funds currently covered, and the final financial laws that will not be cut down in the health system. This has led to our agreements and cooperation. These documents give the amount and the location of the items. The paper contains e.g. 700 million to the Land Hospital, 50 to the Hospital in Akureyri. The South American Institutes of Health and the National Institutes of Health are strikingly different in the case of a difficult business. There's a lot of stuff in there. In recent years, the health - care organization of South Germany has wrestled with a difficult debt of debt. He's even. to be met by the Western Institutes of Health (National Institutes) in the South (National Institutes) a few years ago. That institution was a very debtable one. Besides, as we all know, a vast number of tourists are going through the South. There are many summer houses, and this puts pressure far beyond what the population tells us about it in this area. A suggestion is 150 million to come, including. to meet these unexpected expenses and unforeseen in some respects, but in some respects not. As I'm saying, it may be a future discussion. In the past, Southnesia's clinic was severely cut down. It's taken longer than we planned to rebuild that institution. The 50 million listed in Southnes'Funds meet the Agency's problems and guarantee its management situation for a longer time, but the difficult business there will be explained, as I said, by a major cutout in the previous years and by heavy traffic through the terminal located there, our international airport. It may say itself, there are many tourists. There are also many employees who need service. In addition, the number of people in the South has increased dramatically in recent years. We're talking about an 8% increase. So I put in a small context of implementation around the terminal, it is estimated that there will be about 400 new jobs next year. Then I haven't been involved in this development in industry on the Southnes and in other activities. We can't stay behind forever. We know this, we know this increase, and we know that this is our international airport. We know the need so that next year we can't say again in a budget: Hey, this is all a big surprise to us. We're here with hundreds of thousands of tourists. We have a lot of staff. The population here is still growing as natural growth continues. In the next year, we need to improve our work on this matter, and this can not always surprise us so much. Finally, I would like to mention a contribution to humanitarian affairs at the hands of the war in Syria, an emergency aid of 50 million. I'm especially glad that it didn't even have to be discussed. The nominees agreed completely that this would have to go into the light of the situation, and I'm happy about it. I'm not gonna keep this any further, Madam President. Thank you so much. The legal committee for outstanding good and solutionable cooperation and trust, where all contributed to a good outcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u7	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill for financial support. I like to watch the big movie, and it's a little hard to separate this bill from others we're competing for Christmas, which are the budgets and then the bandworm, the revenue proposals that come with all of this. I'm gonna be pretty honest here in a pita. I think that's what you should be in general in life, especially in the kind of work we're going through here. Many members of Congress have entered the agreement that reached between all the seven groups who are being held at a Synod on a collective payment on this matter. I'm going to admit that I had very serious doubts about this as the right way. I view the bill to the budget of each year, in fact, as the most political bill to be presented at any given time. It provides the lines of how governments want to see society that year, and then a national financial program takes a long view. I had some doubts that it was right for the classes to get together. True stories made it quite exciting for me to think that the classes would simply bring their suggestions into the Hall of Congress, voted for the level of expenses of the classes, i.e. on which expenses would be more effective during the council and what expenses would not, and the necessary income would be maintained. I understand, however, that this is the conclusion. These are critical times in many ways in the politics. I talk about exciting situations, and surely difficult times can be exciting. I appreciate the thought that is behind this reconciliation and, of course, will support it even if I had considered it to be better in many ways. As the situation is, I think it was a more reasonable way, although I had my doubts, simply because, considering the circumstances, most of the money was given to the necessary classes that would otherwise not have been obtained. I consider these bills to be a common understanding of the necessary actions. In reality, this is the least we are willing to do to cope with the situation. There is so much to wait for, and governments, which in the end must be built up even further. We keep many aspects of our lives missing. We're responding to an emergency call. But we were going to be doing everything else here, right? I do not remember many who spoke in the campaign so that their first post-election assignment would have to respond to pleas for a medical emergency, and that could be kept gone. I believe there's a lot of work to be done on the market. It is sad that there is a situation that exists that, despite a long prosperity period, the state's income foundation has been weakened so that we're in this position, that there's no correction of the inevitable cuts in the wake of the crash, that we can't be in what I believe all of us here would want to be doing, putting a refreshing sum of money on building up. In fact, a theocratic government, the current government, gave up a huge amount of money in a government fund. Those actions can be considered for a long time. It is enough to mention the reduction in hunting costs and tax reforms that were best used to them. This is a income supply to the State of about tens of billions that we could certainly have used now to build up properly. Although I say I believe that all of us want to build wood, I've had a lack of willingness to finance enough infrastructure, welfare, health systems, education systems, etc. I've felt it wasn't enough. I've had a really big day in my life. This was a time for agreement to settle these issues. There was agreement on the need to make adjustments in the budget. There was no such agreement on a financial and business committee, so when it happens to be natural to suggest the necessary level of income, it is somehow cut out of the platform, pretend to be some play when it really is politics. We are acting on our convictions, what we believe is the right thing to do. The three basics I mentioned at the outset of my speech are at least improving. As I said earlier, I view this as a common understanding of the necessary actions. I look forward to handling this project in the coming new year, whether it will be in more parts or smaller, taking on the necessary changes needed to strengthen and strengthen the state's income foundation and to enter the infrastructure that we all promised to make elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u8	A respectable president. We are discussing the funds and, as we have seen in many cases. These laws are designed to cover unscheduled expenses, which can become someone at the same time understood. It has been a matter of people to try to keep these changes to a minimum or not to have the money there, but to try to have all the government plans so that we know in any way what is going to happen each year and that we expect it to be in financial terms. Also, the financial benefits are that they should be exposed to things unseen. There's a lot of money to be talking about. I have listened to the talks of senators who have been very helpful in this regard. I'm not going to give a long talk about everything in this bill. First, though, I want to mention what is a very big part of the bill, unseen expenses in the sense that we could not have expected it a year from now, but is a large spending team, the stability process so called, incorporated in order to equalize the pension rights of parties in the public market to public markets. That bill we'll talk about later, but I'd like to talk about it briefly because I've found the discussion on that subject quite uniform. I'm saying that I'm being recommended as a bill on the equal pension rights, and that's as it has been. I have felt that those who criticize it and speak in return are the best class ever. They're talking about their interests, and that's normal, but it's forgotten to talk about what the Generals should do if we weren't equalizing the pension rights that exist in that bill and are being done in these financial provisions. What, then, would we be watching? Then we'd be seeing a promotion, which means what? Which means paid people would pay more in a pension fund. Now the bill is about 15% monthly, but they would pay about 20% monthly in a pension fund. That means that every five days of work would be a day's work just for what we're putting into our pension fund. Do we want to invite people to that, e.g. Young people and just all those who witnessed a decrease in income that is sensitive to them in their everyday lives? It's thought that it's parked in, and we'll take it out later in life. I feel very responsible to use the stability project to balance the pension rights in the current way. This is done by permission of the existing budget. Another aspect of this money I've mentioned before, and I'm not satisfied with, is an extra donation calculated to the Department of Procrastination through the special marketing campaign of foreign markets of sheep products - this is Iceland's Food Land and makes an additional 100 million available to go abroad for additional markets on lamb meat. There are 100 million other in the budget. All of a sudden, there's a 100% rise in this. It's clear in various ways, I've had a few explanations in this regard. Falling the Norwegian markets mentioned someone. Then I understand that there was also a clear explanation for the Russian and Ukraine business battles, so it's all very vague, I think. I also feel very vague and divulge that we do not have exactly how this amount of money is going to help with the lack of price on Icelandic sheep within the country. I don't see how one thing goes by putting 100 million into the market that the so - called Food Land of Iceland will do, how it will manage to stay in the country. I have, for example, realized this before I wanted to keep it to the best of my life. In view of the success of funds, I would also like to arrange for this strange situation in which a management committee puts out a financial bill. The management board has made no more than any group at the General Assembly have worked hard on the bill, and it is a financial committee to commend that it has all shown up and has not been in any games, at least not on that committee, on the matter of working faithfully together on the budget bill. No one is really comfortable with the results at both ends. Some feel that there is too little investment; others feel that the budget is too swollen. Is it not, though, a fine compromise of just the same importance not to compromise extremes? I'm hopeful, and I'm looking forward to seeing how these budgets are tested that we're about to accept. In this context, I'd like to say I'm not going to lie against this 100 billion. K. increase to the foodland because of the agreement on the budget because we are working all of this in another way. This is a bit of a bite that I'm going to have to swallow a little like others do with various other budgeties. I wish this would be part of a speech from us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u9	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about the later budget bill this year and make a lot of changes for understandable reasons. There, the progress of the Penitentiary Fund for the government's staff is increasing. I wanted to briefly mention the adjustments made by the Committee on Vega. There we are installing 500 million to ensure that a new General's contract can be signed and that we can also contribute to the bridge that went into the Roft River, a bridge on the Thomson Road. Similarly, we contribute funds to the Viking coastal parks, which is necessary to stop the seawater breaking even more land there. The proposals given here for health care are part of the agreement made between the groups of the council and thus meet the institutions that, despite the much compromises in the budget, are still being added. Road there e.g. U.S. National Institutes of Health, U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A. Madam President. I hope this bill is very supportive at the council. Although this is a big change, we are still going to be successful, and if this bill is adopted by the changes proposed here, it is estimated that the 2016 total yield will be positive for a very large sum of money. Surely all of us can rejoice in that success!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u10	A respectable president. We vote for a bill for a budget law that gives evidence that we've become a big deal involved in government affairs. The bill reflects the position that the government books have now been moved into stability forms that are quite news of. From this moment on, we expect the government, the book of state, and the government funds to be placed in a stable environment. It is for us to keep up - to - date with our savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u11	A respectable president. Here we are voted for the budget-authorized bill, which in itself is part of an agreement made between all seven political parties at the council. It is an accomplishment that has been achieved between the same political forces as the one sitting here. I thank the members of the committee for their cooperation in this work. We left greens, of course, votes of change but then we sit by the budget bill, for this is, of course, a change in the bill established by the head of the Agency and an independent party in the past year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u12	President. This is where we're paying a vote on the 2016 budget bill. Piratar and I would like to thank you for your cooperation on a budget committee and, of course, we would like to vote on a new budget and we'd like to sit next to the bill. Other than that, just the same. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen said, "Thank you very much. "
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u13	President. As I explained in my talk on the budget bill, I don't think this section belongs in a budget where I don't think this is one of the unexpected expenses. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u14	A respectable president. Same as last time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u15	Mr. President. As we have seen in our discussions today, the one standing here and the United States has had a lot to do with a budget bill for 2017. However, adjustments were made made made made by a financial committee, and the council has all agreed to issue the budget bill. I think it's historic, and I think we can only be a bit happy about it, although no group has got exactly what he wanted. Perhaps the value of all of this is that we all get a little disgruntled when we've put the budget bill away but happy into Christmas. I thank you for your cooperation, and especially the chairman of the Committee and the Directorates of the budget and the Committee for making this work in such a short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u16	Mr. President. I'll take my heart for what I'm talking about. Harðardóttir It's quite a while for us to be here. I can also deeply agree with her that we all feel inadequate. Thus, good negotiations are achieved, everyone gets rather disgruntled, but they are happy to reach the decision and that the council has failed the challenge of bringing legal laws to the Icelandic State under these circumstances. I would like to thank the staff of the Committee and the personnel council who were invited and prepared to assist with the work of the legal committee and with my staff on the budget board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u17	President. Thank you for your short, quick, successful cooperation. The members of the council were here until the end of the week. 6 this morning, scouring all the files and everything, and they were here by now. 9 again to help us with the committee's opinion and actions. I appreciate their gratitude for my first yards and the first financial bill I share in the work. I thank you for your cooperation with the Committee again. It was a great learning and fun, and it was very nice to see such different people working together when circumstances are the way they are. I look forward to continuing cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u18	Mr. President. We are dealing with the first bill presented in accordance with the new laws on public finances. It's a very special situation. It has to be said at the moment. The nature of the matter, as it is, and we all know it well, we must think that no one will get his way here, as has been attributed to other members of the council. I'd like to say, though, that we've influenced the bill for the better. It has some good changes proposals that we'll agree on, but we're going to sit by the whole bill because it's based on the national financial policy of those who are leaving the power or are completely not covered by the majority of messages currently being received. I want to thank like others again for the cooperation of the Committee and the Chairman in particular. It was not always easy to hold on to human affairs. It was very fragile and fragile sometimes, but it's starting to happen, and it's great for me at the council and us generals to think it's that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u19	A respectable president. It's very interesting to see how this bill's taken over. Hv. A legal committee had exceptionally little time to care for his work. I came in as an assistant for a few times and I saw how all the members of the committee went in. The legal committee did their very best to reach an agreement. It was very difficult on chapters, I found it, but I think we've achieved a better solution. On the other hand, just like the rest of them. Congress officials have pointed out, to a large extent, the funds of the Independence Party. So, as the Piratars and I will vote for a common change, we will sit by the rest of the case. I want to thank you. Committees - I think it all deserves to be called "respective " - for tireless work in behalf of the council and the nation. They deserve more than good commendation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u20	A respectable president. I'd like to say a few words about the job at night. It's a legal committee. It was kind of a novelty in the beginning to find out how to handle this project. As I came from my backyard in Kopavogi, I thought it would be only natural to assume that one result came from all categories. That's what we set for ourselves, and that's what we got. I am very happy and proud that it was achieved, which may be just a normal conclusion in the light of the situation, as it were. Likewise, I would like to thank you for doing well from time to time. Chairman of the Committee. He worked hard and was sure to do it, and there was a solid sense of trust and cooperation in this committee, and I am quite satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u21	V.E.G. President. I'll join my partners in bed. It's a budget, and thank you very much for your cooperation. I believe we can learn much more from this than we can understand right now. What happened on the committee after a few days of work, as I experience it, and I think there's something in it, is that there was trust in a lot of people, and because we trusted each other in talking and finding common conclusions. I believe this will be far beyond the council. We have often talked about the lack of confidence in the council, but I believe with this payment, we senators will build up confidence in it. By trusting in one another, we can make the public trust in us. That's a good start. Come on, let's go like this. In a speech earlier today, I said that I would like to thank my colleagues on the committee and especially the chairman of the Committee. He deserves commendation. I am convinced, and I repeat this here, that he will not be overrated by such a compliment. I'm pretty sure. Thank you for everybody and Merry Christmas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u22	A respectable president. I agree with my colleagues'comments to a financial committee and thank you for the good work that has been done there. We will vote with the fine changes achieved but will sit by in other respects, like other categories outside the management board. However, like others, I especially want to thank the chairman and my associates on the committee for their extraordinary cooperation. I hope that the tactics we saw in a budget in connection with this financial debate will be a guide for us in this terms of election. A particularly good spirit came to pass on the committee, a good trust between men, and I think that we have worked together to make great changes in these laws, making them better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u23	A respectable president. I'm just going to explain to you the two changes that we now have at 3rd. in the much system modification involved. This is not a complicated modification proposal and is available on the deck. 41 and 72. It is on the one hand on the other. 41 Change of provisional regulations as agreed with 2 Peter 3: 1. "Incompatibilities, I think I remember correctly." Here it is just a little request to change the list of sites to be taken into a group of people scheduled to submit the results of the possibility or analysis of the need for a life-surgetion age of certain groups to be lower than the general population, as it is said in the modification scheme. Of course, in this regard I would like to mention that differences in pensional age can both result in a decrease in the number of individual working groups, but also when it is not raised to individual groups at general elevations. Motion on deck. 72 is additional to the change that most of the Economic and Business Committee proposed and agreed on to the 2nd. Here, only legal references are being made so that the law meets its goal, which is that the approved bridges of the Pension Fund will be adjusted in the same way as the law on the head of the state's Department of Pension.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u24	V.E.G. President. I recommend a committee party with a bill-changing motion to legalize the alien law, No. 80/2016. The committee has discussed the matter. The bill includes a postponement of the validation of 2nd paragraph 1 sentence. and 3 mg. Thirty-five. Is God a God of Peace? No. 80/2016, to July 1st, 2017. On the other hand, the directive is that charges against specific decision-making made by the National Institute of Iceland every year are not the right effect of decision and authority to set up a legal requirement for the treatment of non-eldered foreigners on the request for a continuation of proper effects. Instead, there is a provision to make a preliminary decision on the lack of legality of the decision by the National Institute of Iceland to leave the country in the cases where the Agency has clearly evaluated its application and is derived from a state that is listed in the Agency's list of secure states, as shown by Article 1. 2 mg. Twenty-nine. It is also called upon to agree on a decision taken according to the final 2 mg. Thirty-five. which relates to the Agency's decision not to postpone the implementation of the export. In the treatment of the Commission bill, it was reported that making these changes is very important, as it may result in a trial in which case the European Commission's decision will not delay the right effects of the decision. The Commission has concluded that there has been an enormous increase in the number of applications for international protection in this country and that it is therefore important that the legal issue on this subject be clear. The committee points out that despite stipulation of the 1st issue, 2 mg was given. Thirty-five. Is God a God of Peace? No. 80/2016, of January 1st, is clearly defined as not having a legal effect, it is unclear which of the rules applies to the case. In view of the Commission's opinion, it is very important for the dominant situation that in what case the decision of the European Commission is not to delay justice. So the committee proposes the recording of the 1st hearings of 2 mg. Thirty-five. and 3 mg. Thirty-five. will be suspended to April 1, 2017, and up to the level of principle of the same rules as currently stated in temporary IV regulations in law No. 96/2002, about foreigners. In this way, there is an appropriate time for reviewing Article 35. The entire law of law.....explaining exactly what case of rule two. Thirty-five. should be reached. According to the Committee, three months is the right time and suggests the adjustment of the material. It is important for all applicants to remain on an individual and careful case treatment on an international level. The Commission suggests that the bill will be adopted by the above - specified modification proposal. In addition to this, it is signed by the whole committee involved in the committee's opinion, i.e. Nichole Leigh Mosty, Guvinger S. Brjánsson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Pawel Bartoszek, Jón Gunnarsson, and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdótir, and Svandís Svavarsdóttir. Finally, I want to thank the Committee for its extraordinary cooperation, progressive work, and fine work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u25	President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize a change in foreign law. This is an extension of a set provision, and according to the proposal as we first received it, it was assumed to be a change in the legal environment to six months of age. In particular, I thank the committee for agreeing that this would only be a three - month change, since there are certain uncertainty issues to be resolved further on the subject of Article 35. new alienizations that are now in force on January 1. They were agreed to at the council with all paid votes and significantly improved the legal environment of this most important but delicate group of paintings. In particular, I would refer to the foreword I make to the committee and to the matter of a particularly careful lawsuit and an individual in the committee's opinion that they should be there. I think it's very important that we never go through the way that this kind of treatment depends on some kind of gross categories, but it's always about that all applicants on global protection get an individual and careful treatment. I assume that the VG party will sit down on the whole thing when it comes to getting paid. To help speed up the matter and make it smooth and productive, I view it as a more effective solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u26	A respectable president. I thank the Committee for brief but enjoyable cooperation. We've reached a good deal on about 15 minutes, I believe, about how everyone could get along pretty well with the committee party we're having today. I am content with the spirit of all the provisions that we have seen today that we have agreed with each other, enough to stand by this, since the time of this law to be valid has been reduced by half that I feel I should put a positive and important pressure on the legislature to correct the alien law and correct the quickest thing that seems to be up to the court to support the rightness and when it may not be. On the other hand, I would like to make no mistake that instead of just living well with those who come here and apply for international protection and have the good conditions to receive all those who choose to apply for protection here in Iceland, we are looking for a way to send people out of the country as soon as possible and that that is our solution to welcome the few terrors that come here. There is an emergency all over the world because of a refugee stream. Because of the geographic situation in Schengen as an island in the middle of the year, Iceland has escaped what many countries have actually had to treat, which is a huge number of people who have had to receive. The group looking here is just a fraction of what most nations in Europe, much less the neighboring nations of most refugees, have had to assist. I think it's rather frustrating that we're getting out of giving normal treatments to people who come here and apply for international protection instead of providing circumstances so that we can receive everyone and give fair treatment to all. The current alien law contains measures that allow hurrying treatment. We don't have to rush it any more. I am glad that the committees continue to receive personal and careful treatment because I worry that people will be stamped out on passports and sent away without a fair trial, simply to get rid of unpleasant objects that do not come from the right countries. I believe that by shortening the time of the provisional principle for three months and making it a point to be acceptable to this end, although this certainly makes me think of a great deal of the need to improve the alien law even more than has been done where there is yet to be a need for improvement. I won't delay the Senate anymore, after a year's time I'll talk about all the things I want to turn into a foreign law. I just want to thank you for a short, satisfying cooperation and will be able to stay with the whole thing, but I'm going to be on this transition.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u27	Mr. President. In a recent speech, I said that a five - year - old national budget was political economics, and in a similar way the content of budgeted is pure and smart political economics. The debate over the budget crystals of political ideologies. It doesn't bother anyone to hear it, neither do we. Councilmen or people. Punishment without political discussion would be a sexy event. That's what happened to you. Benediktsson, earlier today, Haraldur are circumstances in the budget today of special interest. A positive work environment without majority government transmission to many of the council's decisions, including financial bill, bandorm, and financing bill with and without any changes made by individual categories. A happy and frequent agreement has been met among seven categories of shared understanding of the minimum solutions of various problems. This is a compromise between classes, with part of a completely different ideologies. We left greens in this group, and we've had the agreement, as per the entire vote. What was agreed on will be realized. The Senate has shown its best aspects, like a bang. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson said earlier today. At the same time, we have identified our unique position in the left green, as we would have in our discussion of financial matters. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. As soon as a gentleman's meeting on the common foundation of the budgetary committee is met, a well - thought - out arrangement is presented for an interesting demonstration in a conniving democracy. That remains the basic theme of this historic day.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u28	Mr. President. It is important to balance national pension rates between the public and the general labour market. In many respects, it is a unique opportunity to do so now. That is why the work has been disappointing. Humans have not worked hard enough with negotiations and have tried to find acceptable solutions. If fires are just as hard on somewhere else, it will not be enough to turn them off in one place. The Company proposed two very important forms of the bill that would have made it more acceptable to us than because they were incorporated, we do not trust to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u29	Mr. President. This case did not get well enough discussion. It was very big, very complicated, and many things in it. It was not taken well enough to account for the feelings of those who suffer a failure because of this. Also, in my opinion, economic predecessors and other important factors were not taken sufficiently into account. These are practices that we shouldn't cultivate, so I would like us to walk much slower in the future. I don't expect this stop, but it would be extremely desirable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u30	Mr. President. This is a fundamental system change, based on an agreement that is interpreted in a very different way. It is very bad to make such changes at the pace we have served at the council. It is worth considering how much debate is about these changes. While it may be true that everyone will never be satisfied with such changes, I believe that the council can do much better. Within the left green, there are many opposers of these changes, but also those who agree with the goal of equalizing pension rights but believe that much better could have been done on these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u31	President. When this case was first presented during the last term, it was suggested that a committee be established that would continue working with the case between terms. It was refused. Sadly, there are extreme discrepancies, and there has been little consideration for those who have called after paying attention to the indications that have come from them. It's worked at way too fast. There has been no time for proper review of the reports that have been received and received from guests. The needed reconciliation has not been created to make such major changes. At the same time, as noted, the economic effects that this may have were not adequately exceeded. So I can't sit by or pay this way, the case isn't ready, and I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u32	A respectable president. It's important to fix our pensions and balance rights between the public labour market and the general. It is important that workers be able to clean up the two markets. Also important is the balance between these two labour markets. They're waiting for us. If we don't do anything about equalizing the pension commitments and paying for this now, pay up. And who will accept it? At that time, the pay will be raised in a pension fund and will be 20% of the pay monthly. There's a loss of income for the people of the country. Is that better? Nothing's been discussed. I just want us to look at this in the overall context. It's important. Since the fall of the year, we have discussed this subject, and that has been very much discussed during the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u33	Mr. President. I have studied this matter a little, and I have followed it since it was first presented. I wish I could vote by it because it could provide a basis for a certain factor in reconciliation in the workforce by the SALEK Convention, how we could with a framework of collective agreements win us to make them at peace. This matter, however, is far too little to be discussed here. It's a system hazard of course. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, our member of the Committee, has identified a risk that can pose a real danger for us. It doesn't have to be done immediately if it would look much better, it's right. I remind members of Congress that some of those who were in that council hall agreed that the camp loans could not be paid off but that those who borrowed from the apartment loans could. That meant an enormous system risk for the State. Yet, I recall that there was a agreement in this council hall. I checked it at the time. Now we could be doing the same thing. System hazard is possible, and that's why I'm going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u34	Mr. President. Christmas approaches, giving gifts. The local builders gave us senators in buckets. The Christmas gift a great deal of employees get from the General Assembly this Christmas is abduction of the rights. In general, the controversial bill has been called upon to refer to the Allied halls for an equation of pension rights. That's a good point. So the equation is that the employee of the public sector loses the advantage they have had in pensions. The payouts of the public market will likely hold the top priority in their most recent salary payments. It says the knife of the cow, here's a piece of property. The words of those who have spoken of the Constitution on private occasions are now of little value, and I must say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u35	A respectable president. Many people are absolutely right. Councilmen who've been in a pit before me telling me it's a decomposition. V.E.G. Bjarni son of Benediktsson's finance minister has twice twice entered this hall with a bill that his partners with an agreement signed in the fall estimated to be out of agreement. There are so many instruments that this agreement even meets a constitution, that it is being reassigned to pension rights, and it is about pension rights that are uncertain as to whether it is a part of the remuneration and therefore not belong in this council hall. There are so many tools on this case, but one thing is certain, and it's that parties don't agree. If this bill becomes a law that I suspect is worthy of, the General is legalizing the changes in pensions to conflict with the changing. [[The president calls.]] I say no to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u36	A respectable president. I am pleased to announce that we are extending a personal application contract and that we are going to work on legalizing this arrangement in the coming year. On the other hand, I object that this is not enough to validate the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people whom we wrote under 2007, not validate until this year, and still have a very long way of making legal laws in this country. I hope this is going to be a step in the right direction. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u37	A respectable president. Each year, some 1,000 foreign citizens are granted national rights with the administrative decision of the National Institute of Iceland. Here the tradition, Christmas tradition has developed, some call it, giving dozens of people citizenship, past this system, but by law of the Council. This procedure will resist my sentence not equal to the good government, which is held in equal esteem here in this hall. I'm not going to let this view affect my vote this time, but it'll probably be the last time I take part in a vote on this matter by doing this. I hope the Allied Council is looking again for a new year to change the procedure, and from the events of the law on citizens' rights. This, of course, is what I wish for the individuals involved in this occasion to congratulate our citizenship and have no reason to believe that happiness also rests with us with this provision, the rest of us who are already Icelandic citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u38	A respectable president. That is always a big time for the individuals involved. I know that because I got along with my mom... this way, uh... this way, uh... this is how I got my citizenship. 19 and a half years. There is one senator in this hall who shared in that ceremony, and thank you very much. President very much for that. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm sure he does, and I hope he doesn't see too much of his decision. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Other than that, I wish the discussion to be truly happy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-13.u39	Of course, the president remembers and does not regret the decision at all. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
