ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u1	With letters dated April 12th, 2016, the president has requested this, according to the 8th Amendment of 1st. 13th par. Congress, to the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with the following reports: Annual report National Review 2015, Service Convention at Aging House, Follow-up report, and Organizations who serve individuals with impaired skills, follow-up report.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u2	A respectable president. In view of the political situation and the situation in Iceland, I think it's time to ask for the best answers. A president of certain questions that are subject to interpretation of the Congress's regulations on how to document the interests of members of Congress. There are people in the community talk, in the media, and at the hands of various officials here, both presidents of the government itself and members of the Congress party, that the understanding differs. I'm asking the highest. President of the Council plans to respond to differing interpretations of the rules on how to record the interests of members of Congress. Second, whether the president feels that the rules were broken when the former prime minister chose not to record his ownership in Wintris when he was elected to Congress 2009. Third, whether the president believes that a minister of finance has violated rules when he did not record his ownership of a counterfeit, but he has served as a member of Congress, as it is known since 2003.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u3	For this reason, the president wants to say that he cannot answer two questions at a time. A senator for the highest. Prime Minister and secretary of finance, although the president is not aware that these rules have been violated, he chooses to consider these matters better. However, in the last few weeks, we have seen just how different we understand each other's motives. Councilmen and other members are exactly what the rules on interest registration mean. The problem of the president on this matter has been varied, including that when the rules were set in the Presidency Committee, they in themselves did not follow any explanation of the specific points that could be used. That is why it is the President's plan that these matters will be handled specifically. Of course, it is not good for things to be in the position that there are differences in understanding what the rules on interest registration really mean. Of course, one of the reasons for the protocol of interest is that we want to have these things in order that members of Congress themselves can be absolutely sure of how they should react to certain opinions that may arise on the basis of their renovations. Therefore, the President's intention to address these issues is to be considered, including the following: to explain the rules in a way that all people have. Congress and others recognize what it really means. On the other hand, the President would like to say that members of Congress are particularly involved in how they relate to their interest logistics, which, of course, are to follow those rules. However, there is insufficient control in these substances. For example, it is faced with one point, which, of course, is not one of the largest things ever mentioned in this relationship, but the president is only judging, one of which is intended for us members of the Parliament to record trips, missions, i.e. travel paid by non-Second Council or Public Affairs. It's a thing that is very difficult for the council to observe. Although the council sometimes has some ideas about being foreign, it is not obvious that each session can apply and ask members to see if they are going on their own, on government, or in what ways. Of course, this must be true of members of Congress. Senators are in a very special position. The senators take their authority, their authority, to the common people, and should therefore render an account to the common people. To this end, the president wants to justify his intent to review the issues involved, but he believes that there is a greater basis for us to review these things. For example, it is interesting and now comes to the mind of the president of this saying, that the president has not submitted to any tips or questions, at least has not been directed to the President himself, on how to interpret the factors that have been the most part of the discussion. On the other hand, the president would also like to say that he has wanted members to be alert to their own record of correct information on the interest log. Senators may have had less time to e - mail from the President and Generals' office to the Generals several weeks ago, if not months ago, where members of the Parliament were encouraged to review their application of interest. It was not for any other special reason, but the president himself has come to realize that there is a need for each of us to keep a close eye on his application of interest. The changes in the financial situation and other bodies of members of Congress also make it necessary for members of Congress to be very conscious of the registration. This has become a deeper answer than the president had originally thought, but when these things are discussed, those discussing, including presidents' heads, various points, and he wanted to take advantage of the opportunity here to promote them. As soon as there'll be the final words in this storm, the president wants to say why. Councilmen thinking of their own renovations, this is recommended by a good president, considering their own interest log, and looking for information in the Generals office, which is prepared to assist with this, and has actually been presented in the advice of a president in the past year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u4	V.E.G. President. Since I have not wanted to address this point recently, as a result, I have been attracted to the fact that I am fully informed by a president of the United Nations Women's Conference, probably three weeks ago, when it was made up of a conversation in front of me that I was in New York at the U.S. Women's Conference and asked what it would be like. Now it was not my intention at the time to inform the whole nation that I was there on my own account and my wife with me; but first, this inquiry was out of place. Þorvarðardóttir I'm sure that's how it got to be. It was so that this had been shown at a council meeting, probably Monday before the trip. I know this is not the best agreement in the United States at this time, but I thought that major matters were discussed by members of the council. Finally, I want to say that it was an experience to be at this conference. I was the only member of the Icelanders there, and I want to direct it to members of Congress who are intensely interested in the subject that it is worth spending some of their money in order to be there and share in the grand work there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u5	A respectable president. I come up in this symposium at my own expense, and I want to discuss here that there is still a job at the council without a question of when it will be chosen. It was said last week that it was necessary for the current government to continue in order not to paralyze everything in the administration and to create a very uncertain political situation. Yesterday, I heard some answers coming from, for example, why. Ásmundur In discussions with President's conference board, Ásmme The Einar Daðason of Dadabon said that the government groups had not already decided whether it would be chosen in the fall or whether it would even be spring or what the situation would be. At the council these days, I feel that there's a lot of uncertainty and everything stops, and really, no one knows what important things to finish. I wondered, a respectable president, how long the uncertainty conditions that the government continued to prevent it from being created should be before we are allowed to know when to choose and what cases to complete before that time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u6	The president only wants to say that it is entirely true that there is some uncertainty about the work of the council. The president has tried to contribute to the program set out yesterday and today in order that at least we could continue to discuss matters that have been called after, and the president believes that there is a reason to believe that there could be an agreement and, second, of the cases mentioned as willing to move, the joint, or matters shared by members of the Senate committees. In this, the president highlights the importance of the program now that he believes it can become a solidarity, or has been called after in one way or another.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u7	A respectable president. I'm going to thank the President in many ways for the fine answer and fine review of this position and encouragement to us members of the Parliament regarding the registration of interest. But because of the seriousness of the occasion, I'm going to announce here that I will make a written inquiry for these matters so that the president can review it better at a Senate document. I believe it will also be asked if the President of the Generals should change the rules of the Senate interest logs and record more detailed information than is currently being done. So there's nothing wrong with what President's position is here, because there's quite a disagreement. Not just differences about most of us, but differences about the Ministers found in the Panamas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u8	A respectable president. Now we're still starting a council without being in the government date for the elections that have been announced and promised. It is natural that we are going to work here day after day, and it should not be informed into this setting when it will be in order to keep the promise made to the public about elections. For word's sake. paritaprevir The son of Þorsteinn, the Sæmundsson of Sæmund earlier, declared that he had personally gone to the United Nations Women's Assembly in New York and wanted to answer that he had done so on his own account, then the senator was registered on the Department's Web site as representative of the General Assembly. That was perhaps what I was making comments with at the time, i.e. how the council stood by the appointment of its representatives at the United Nations Women's Assembly, for the President here informed that the council was not in a position to send a representative to that council, yet the senator was registered as a special representative of the council. [[The president calls.]] The president might be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u9	The President cannot answer the question of the registration, for as shown in President's reply, these cases were not true here. As a result, a member of the Parliament and the Council had no influence on the situation. A senator was registered. I'm sorry, Mr. President can't tell you what to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to add what I said before, because people are also discussing the identity of members of Congress's interest, that there's nothing more like it, and it's the idea that the government may be waiting to see what comes out of the ongoing coverage of the Panamas, that somehow there is hope and hope to see what will happen there to be a way it will happen. I hope, of course, that's not because I think people know there's more coverage in those papers all. So it's an opportunity for senators and politicians to have what they want, hopefully until that time, to put all the cards on the table. I wondered, " Did men do that? ' Have you put everything on the table in this? Are they waiting for something to appear that may not be known? There is something that we would like to know because it certainly has not been that way in bringing about the debate and fury we've been through here that man has actually had everything on tables that affects voters. [[The president calls.]] I just want to say, at last, a respectable president, I hope I'm sorry to go over time, that, of course, people should look into these matters so that it's voters in favor, to put out more information than smaller and not always try to look after themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u11	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, who said we should give up more than less. This is because there has been an enormous loss of confidence that reached new levels last week between this institution and the voters. How are we going to run this community with such confidentiality between these important bodies, i.e. The public in the country and then his representative at the legislature meeting? We are now taking a break at this meeting and setting out how we can change this by increasing information here when it comes to members of Congress and increasing our demand for information and then when it will be chosen so that the classes can renew their commission from voters. One thing you can't say last week, then come in the following week, hoping that you can wait for it. [[The president calls.]] Thus we do not build trust again, waiting for things to happen. We do so by taking the matter into the first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u12	President. I'd like to, in view of the fact that it's Wednesday, to ask if the president intends to arrange a meeting with members of the council to discuss the fact that a date has not arrived for information on progress, how the government classes are going to gather that information. I would also like to direct it to the council groups in the greater part of the world to pressure the publication of this journal. I understood at this meeting with the prime minister that it was in the hands of members of the council and members of the council to evaluate the situation, etc. I just wanted to put pressure on them and put pressure on a meeting to be with members of the council and president before entering the weekend.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u13	The president would like to say that he is always prepared to have a meeting with members of the council and that he does not agree. However, the president would like to inform us that a meeting will be on the presiding committee tomorrow, including trying to figure it out. It is a prime committee that will administer the Council's administration with a president. The meeting was not earlier this week, but the president did not consider it a reason for the uncertainty he felt existed at the council, but he intends to have a lunch break tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u14	A respectable president. I come up here to discuss the President's conference board and what I see as a new tone in the President's conference board, and I think it's extremely positive and should be to follow. The president makes an effort to answer the questions that come up with these questions for his hat, as far as it goes and according to his knowledge. That's the way to do it, of course. I hope that the government and everyone else who's paying attention to the fact that this is in the general situation we're in politics the only right way; to try to speak clearly, answer the questions, have a conversation. You can also count the highest. A new prime minister said that one of the first things he did was to have a meeting with the heads of the classes. I hope this is a clue, and I want to be encouraging in my comments in a speech chair, that people are realizing it in these situations: don't go this way that has often been gone, so often gone, to just pack up somewhere, not talk to anyone, not let anything come up and create uncertainty. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let's talk. Answers to questions. Delete uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u15	The president would like to thank you for the positive words he has made, but he also says that there is a slight change for President that there is a discussion about the President's meeting board, which is mainly focused on president; the president likes this new development.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u16	V.E.G. President. As a result, the word "whipped. " Þorvarðardóttir I'd like to inform you by now that, as far as I know, a list of individuals attending the United Nations Women's Women's Conference of the United Nations in New York, the work sheet of Iceland's Regular Committee for the United Nations, which, as I have used probe, stood by, and has done a tremendously good job of preparing men to come there, providing information to them, etc. Into this list, all the names of those who come west so that they can also be accessed by the world headquarters of the United Nations, etc. On this list there were, if I remember correctly, last week or earlier, one 27 names, most of which were free partnerships, including Iceland's Women's Rights Association, also the Minister of Social Affairs by escort. So this list is a tool published to relieve those attending these conferences and their organization during the conference. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u17	Mr. President. I would also like to thank the President for his good comments on the interest registration and the promise that it will be reviewed in order to explain if the material is available. In fact, I believe that proposals to interpret the rules in order to distinguish between a person's interests as a business worker or an investment or an investment as an investment. Second, I'd like to say that it must be that if certain suspicions of violations of the correct registration must be taken into consideration, examined, for otherwise the rules would be meaningless - if it did not happen - if in the presence of members, I don't talk about ministers, I wouldn't have handled the correct registration. These rules are by nature minimum rules. It is in nature. There is nothing that forbids members of Congress to provide more detailed information, as VG's members have done from the beginning, since its establishment. On their homepage, we have published much more information about our income, possessions, and stakeholders. Finally about the uncertainty, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] This government, which considered it important to continue working for some month to eliminate uncertainty - the turning up to its opposite side. Uncertainty has never been greater than that of her starting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u18	A respectable president. I think it's very surrealian to stand here and see the schedule on the table and that people are just going to go to a schedule like nothing ever happened. At the same time, we are in the position that there has been total confidentiality between voters and those sitting here, and especially with the government over the Panamas. I think we need to make it a priority to sit down and try to figure out what we're going to answer to the people out here calling for elections. That doesn't mean saying one thing last week and calling it off this week. We're not gonna cover the sheets, and we're gonna wait for this. So I would like to reiterate my question to President, whether or not to interrupt a meeting and try to understand when to go to the election so that we can only get ready to finish the matter that we need to complete before that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u19	The president agrees that it is important to understand the items as well as the things. A senator mentioned but does not consider a reason to interrupt this meeting. The president has explained what lay the basis for the program he has made, both yesterday and today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u20	A respectable president. As soon as I'm telling you, it's kind of out of the question that we're about to start a council job one more day without a vote date, I just wanted to make another decision because of our debates. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. He referred to a list of participants who had given his name, but that is not the case. The matter is simply that the United Nations Women's Conference must be formally represented in a synagogue. It is not enough that individual senators with a keen interest buy flights in their own account because they want to, but, rather, the Allied Council as a legislature and a council of Congress to have a formal representative at this Women's Conference. Of course, that was my main entry when I recorded it a few weeks ago. That request was not addressed personally against the cause. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, of course not, I welcome his equalism and encourage him in the subject as well as others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u21	A respectable president. During the entire discussion that everything is in cold charcoal, we do well to take a brief look at the findings of the World Bank Substitute Committee that has stayed here in the last few weeks and was introduced yesterday. It says that there were unequivocal successes in the economy, similar economic growth has not since been observed as a bank crisis, but now there is much stronger support. A key factor is the growth of tourists who support economic growth and earn currency. Exploitation of old banks was recently carried out, as the AGS puts it, where they managed to defend the currency fees, minimize legal risks, and at the same time create whale drivers for state funds. Well, circumstances have developed for a new step in the decommissioning process. AGS says that appearances are an ongoing success in the economy and that economic growth is 2.5% to an average of time. The greatest risk could be one of those other stoolpoles after overextension. Thus, despite the pressures of many social groups, there are strong warnings against the increase in financial expenses. This can lead to growth increases and harm America's competitiveness. AGS points out that there is an appropriate time for a universal law on public finances to maintain discipline in the financial affairs. The decision to set aside the money made by the pair must not be wavered. The World Bank Declaration confirms what the governments and their Ministers have always said, the state of the nation has rarely been better, the level of inflation is at the minimum of historically low, unemployment is very low, the state's debt has not been better for half a century, and economic growth is greater than in most Western countries. Despite claims, the government is strong. Thirty-eight senators voted against distrust on Friday. [[Up front.]] According to the latest poll of the U.S. National Institute of Social Science from April 8, which is the latest survey of the governments not even lost within the last week, i.e. ... sincethe big issue came up. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] On the contrary, the government groups have added to their ranks. That's the facts. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u22	A respectable president. It is clear that the exposure of the so - called Panama document will have many consequences, hopefully for the benefit of our community and many parts of the world, and for the future. David Cameron, prime minister of Britain, decided to meet criticism of his relationship with the tax field by publishing his tax report six years back. During discussions at the British Parliament, he said that the prime minister, the minister of finance, and those who play comparable roles for the opposition should make their tax reports manifest in the future. This is an interesting viewpoint, and it is necessary to discuss in this country what information we want from politicians, i.e. More than current interest logs are expected. But the pleasant news has been that the 38 provinces of the 38 states have been meeting in Paris on the Panama Documents today. This is a meeting that has had a short delay. The action is being considered for these informants. The meeting represents the government tax manager's office, the tax investigator and the Department of finance for Iceland. What a joy to hear. Today, it has been observed that there is a full will among these parties to support the fight against tax fraud. You see enough of the tax burden placed on people in this country, and obviously it would be much lower, as the Independence Party struggles, if people were not in great numbers to refrain from shouldering their burdens to society, crossing taxes, getting a free ride. I find it difficult to understand the underlying attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u23	A respectable president. The foundation of democracy is open, free discussion based on freedom of expression. These are rights protected in 73 st. The Constitution, which also says that censorship and other comparable barriers to freedom of expression can never be brought to justice. Today, questions have been raised about the need for new standards of conduct by members of the Kingdom News and the issue of neutrality for news and programs makers, which in itself is of the good because all news and programs developers want to practice the neutrality principle, it is recognized as a standard for international journalists. But worse still, in the current trend, it is forbidden to express personal opinion and to inform an officer if there is a failure to do so. In other words, it is forbidding expression of opinion and banning a person's having a life outside the workplace. That's a lot of concern, a respectable president. It is one thing to maintain neutrality in a particular way, but taking human rights from people is another. I feel that it is not to be tolerated in democracy and history shows that it is not a good thing to suppress and oppress views. Let us also consider the spirit of this moral code. It is the atmosphere of years of budgeting and assaults that have been exposed to the staff of the State Radio, including the U.S.A. of members of the council in this room. [[The president calls.]] It is in this atmosphere that employees are moved to offer proposals that impair the Constitution of human rights. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why we need to worry, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u24	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. Svandís The Svavarsdóttir, who came up here to the President's conference board and made it a subject of rules on the application of the Senate. I want to thank you, too, the highest. The president for the answers he gave, especially as to the need for a prime committee to review these matters. Here we discuss the work of the Generals, and we've had a rather strange conversation where the government has taken place, the executives have taken place, and we've said that the election cannot be won until certain unspecified large cases are over. But I think everyone sitting here, well. Councilmen, must be aware that before the General Assembly of the Icelanders it is a big issue that we take on to form this case, reviewing regulations on the Constitution of members of Congress. What we see today is that there are demands on what it should look like. Various senators and the Supreme Court. Ministers are taking the initiative in the release of information, which is the best case, but the Allied Council is not taking over the case as an institution. I think it's supposed to be one of the big things, and it's supposed to be the General who puts it first. As members of the council, we are not to wait for the Commission to prefer to publish some list of what is most important at the council before any election can be held most readily. Senators of the Cabinet are talking. The President of the Generalis is to have the preemptive to review these rules based on current practice in our neighboring countries and on the social requirements for the normal public access to information about the problem. Councilmen, on the one hand, and on the other, those in the highest positions. Ministers who, in addition to the duties of officials, have not just elected representatives. This, Mr President, is a matter to be concluded before the council ends. [[The president calls.]] To get it done, you have to put on a little work, and I trust the highest. A president to support that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u25	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to welcome the reinstatement of traditional Congress. In view of why. A senator who spoke here before me. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, I trust that only positive things come out of the conversation of government leaders and government officials. They're talking and until then we focus on what we're doing here and we're hired. But during last week's battles at the political scene, things were interesting above and below, and I'm just gonna come in on it. I mention, for example, the annual meeting of the Association of Businesses, which has often received more attention than many interesting topics. I would like to call attention to the address of Professor Jón Daníelsson, a professor of economics at the University of London. The economist came to see that the big growth policy in Iceland might lead to mood swings rather than to slow them down and encourage more business growth, in view of the progress we look at in terms of financial emissions. He said that growth increases actually violate his primary goal of blundering and working counterclockwise and further increasing inflation and expansion in the economy. Thus, the economist's view is to try as much as possible to be the closest to the growth of our neighboring nations. To cope with demand gains, other devices can be used. I hope, a respectable president, the Councilman, is pleased to accept these comments by the economist and to guide us now and in the context of national reportings and releases ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u26	V.E.G. President. Tomorrow, we expect to have the main meeting of Iceland's National Bank. All I want to do is kill at the government's decision, which appeared several weeks ago, but has been overshadowed by both Easter and other events. I'm going to quote here and there in this letter, by permission of the president, which includes: In the case of the Borg sale, the Agency considers it to be the ◯ - i.e. The bank management - ◯ins, however, is insufficient in support of the bank. Thus, there is evidence to suggest that the bank drew wrong conclusions from its dealings with the Synthetic Commission regarding deadlines and opportunities to sell its share in the company. A little later says: The state banking agency also claims that the Lands Bank as the largest financial firm in the country cannot bear to itself the absence of other buyers for property shares in cities. The bank office also feels that it is critical that the bank is in position that the sole client was a group of investors, including the head of cities. At the same time, the requirements for the bank must be made to exercise special care in the assessments of management programmes made by the partners within the company of ◯, as shown in the bank's reply letter. ▪ Finally, the bank's answers to criticism that has not been convincing. So, at the end, it says, with the permission of a president: It is vital that the Lands Bank restore the trust of its owners, clients, and investors as well as the public of the country. And it says here: After U.S.A. survey of the Land Bank's sales management of property in Borging, the Agency concluded that the sales treatments have cast a considerable shadow on the results of the Bank and that the professional appearance of the bank and its managers were lost. With reference to this, the U.S. Department considers that the National Bank Board of Banks must take appropriate measures to regain the confidence and credibility that these sales treats of objects in pay have cost the bank. This says that the Bank Office has told A. I trust tomorrow they'll tell bank officials whom the State Department of Bank has appointed by the Bank of Government B and they'll change the bank's administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u27	A respectable president. I'm not going to swerve anything I'm going to do last week. I'm going to cover everything else. On April 9 of the past, a conspiracy was held outside the Polish embassy. People brought a wire-engineered tree and made it a skunk. The reason was that it was protested that Poland is for total abortion. Even now, when the time comes for this often needed medical attention, women are in great need. Now it is to be strictly forbidden that a woman should be able to seek this needed medical help when necessary. The bioavailability of abortion is a matter of life and death for women everywhere in the world. The reason everyone brought a wire-engineered tree was that a wire-engineered tree is the most common way for abortion in which abortion is prohibited. I would like to use this opportunity and clientele to the council, especially the council members, to help me try to find some way to draw the attention of the Polish Parliament on the rights violation of it, if the legislation becomes reality. I think and I believe it's our job, in a world that respects human rights and women's rights, to protect it. I pray to the United States to help me find a way to criticize how the Polish government will take the lead in the self - determination of women in that country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u28	V.E.G. President. In recent days, there has been a loud demand for elections at Generals, that they should be performed immediately. This requirement, among other things, has been seen in protests here on the Eastfield for the past few days and in a talk and in a publication. Senators of the government opposition. Last week, I went with it. Congress officials proselytize confidence in the present government and proposal for a breach. It is good to say that this proposal was made in much more ways here at the General Assembly. A few of them. Councilmen of the government have claimed that we who voted against distrust and assembly breakes are brainwashed and oppressed. At the same time, it has been held here in the General's public address. These actions are not to be followed by government officials. Those who claim to be such are wrong. It was with joy that I decided to submit to that proposal of government. One reason is that there are many causes for the council to be completed. These include decommissioning, housing, decommissioning insurance, and the need to deal with the growth environment we live in. It must be made up of a matter of Congress that helps young people to buy property and thus strengthen the motivation for housing and regulations around the conditions set out for payment. At the same time, the World Bank Substitute Committee considered it positive for the economy that during the past week political instability had not stopped everything. In effect, a breach could have been negative. Finally, I'd like to say something. paritaprevir My colleague's son, Karl Garðarsson, said that the government, despite claims of any other government, remains strong. Thirty-eight senators voted against distrust on Friday. According to recent polls, even governments have not lost their support despite the turmoil of the last days. These are facts, despite all the big words.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u29	Mr. President. Once again, high school issues are in an uproar at the highest level. Minister of Illugi Gunnarsson. The headmaster of the Academy of Education in Akureyri has stepped forward telling of the serious status of the school. Like many other high school students, the Academy of Akureyri has wrestled with difficult business, and most high school seem to argue with the Ministry for calculations due to pay on collective contracts. If the government negotiates pay raise, institutions will need appropriate funds to pay for united increases, that is very early light. The Academy of Education in Akureyri is faced with an accumulation of a range of slopes from 2014 to 2015. Without any warnings, they are now ordered to pay up the palace before the Ministry pays off the school. This means that the school collects tolls, but the ministry's message was that a dollar will not be paid in cash until summer. Can school work be maintained if electricity and heat are not available or if equipment is completely out - of - date? Therefore, the minister must answer and not just answer, he must act. It is very sad, as seems to be often, and we've talked about here before, that it's repeatedly tried to have a conversation with the Ministry's representative, but that's just not an option. What kind of conduct is that, both with students and with high school staff? Next in autumn, the five high school in Northern America, the Academy of Education in Akureyri, the University of Education in Akureyri, the Turks' School of high school, the Lulums and the Postal School in Húsavík, planned to start a wide partnership that is now in an upset state. Part of it was that high school in Akureyri would bring her high school year to conform to the four, but it will not be done next fall because the State is not ready to give the extra money it takes to make these changes. At the end of the study, it is worth remembering that the minister who has spoken a great deal about the withdrawal of students will arrange this by shortening his study to the student's degree. However, the Theocratic Ministry School in Akureyri responded wisely by offering a psychological service that has certainly paid a great deal, but it has to cut down now. [[The president calls.]] On whom does this usually involve the benefit of the schools? Of course you do. The minister needs to dress up and make sure the schools receive the funds they need and become functional.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u30	Mr. President. The Independence Party is advertising in the shadow of the Panama scandal, a government switch, that there are unequivocal successes in the economy. AGS commission is here, telling the fund that it is proper to take steps to decommission the deportations. That's what everybody agrees with. That work began during the last term. The fund's statement says that the basis for current economic growth is the growth of tourists, which, of course, is a major change in all of this, but many variables can lead to worse conditions and there is a risk of overexcitation. We also know power, such as the reduction in oil prices. The government is acting like the success that has now been due, of course, only far away. The government has given up 40, 50 billion, minimum, and monotonous measures, such as stability, temporary tax on the well - being and interest of banks, are not steady - handed income. On the other hand, the government has weakened the welfare system and imposed great pressure on the public. The food tax, have you forgotten it? Health management, lower child support, lower interest rates, broken payers by the short unemployment recovery period to name something. There's a problem in the community. The insides are starving. Transporters are made to sit completely out of the way. The health system is starving. The colleges are starving. Then you come here and boast and act like it's only best to get as many landsavers and scandals as it strengthens the government. Are people in the real world, or where are people in this world? No, that's not all. There is no basis for pride in the economy, which is based on weakening the welfare system and working hard at the votes of the public in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u31	V.E.G. President. As far as the Senate's work is concerned, the nature of the matter has been in some confusion after the previous information has been made that the Ministers have communities in the tax industry, the largest mass protests in the Icelandic history, the resignation of prime ministers, and the administrative exchange. It has been promised to shorten the terms of one legislature, but nothing gets out of the highest level. Government on when to vote. Important things to complete are discussed, but the file does not appear to exist. Thus, the Council is actually held hostage in the execution of the European Commission. Congress lacks leadership and direction, not a promise. Meanwhile, society is still walking. For example, in the news, I have learned that a large country will be hit by the commanding officer during the following days. In no doubt, Jack is one of our most famous and popular nature bulbs. Thus, the possession of this country is a big interest both in the tourism industry and even more because of nature's protection. The local authorities on the Hornefloor have expressed great concern that new owners will pressure a great structure that could corrupt the area. Last night, the mayor encouraged the government to take possession of the land. We've got a lot of work to do here. The need to evaluate whether to take possession of the land is simply not the right thing to do in order to form on the basis of 43 C.E. Natural protection laws, which state that a minister is authorized to take possession of countries to perform a peace description. Our direction in the left movement is at least clear. In accordance with local requirements, natural bulbs should be public property.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u32	Mr. President. One of the roles of those who make politics the field of their work is to listen to the powerful and powerless voices of the common people, to echo the opinions and thoughts of individuals in the community. I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna share with you, and I'm gonna share with you, you know, with a woman's fist and her view of the state of Iceland. She said, with President's permission: I'm still thinking. Now men promise and reforms, rules to prevent the establishment of national accounts, promise to read better the rules on property registration, and promise to set rules that will lock us all down, totally dependent on the people who have shaved more of the resources in Iceland and still have a sweep. I'm wondering if it wouldn't be wise to open everything instead of closing it, open the door for me and you who don't have the problem of having too much money could borrow in foreign banks and pay up the money paid off Icelandic loans, open the way for us to make sure of any insurance company in the world, instead of being committed to the Icelandic insurance companies that are owned by people who waste money in foreign countries and mork money in their booties. Thus, we are released from the National Social Security Association, which apparently puts its members in the top position of the political parties. I've always believed that I should support Icelandic society and I've done business with Icelandic people, but I'm sure after seeing how Icelandic companies have run off with my money to foreign countries, but I'm left with a lousy crown and I'm paying the highest interest in northern Europe, and I'm hammering like a wheel to work for every dollar to make ends meet and pay off, insurance, insurance, and other things that go in their pockets that have no conscience to modern society. So many words, Mr. President. No doubt this voice speaks for many who have realized that they are merely hamsters on a bicycle for those who have money in Iceland. We must make changes together and build a society that builds on equal opportunities for all, but that certainly does not put people in two groups, as is true today. In order for us to do that, we have to go to the election and renew our commissions that work at the General because it has become a total trust in the community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u33	A respectable president. There is one matter of Congress that we should be discussing here, but it has not been taken for real during the season. It is the new Constitution of the Republic of Iceland based on the Council of Control. The debate on interest registration and incapacity of members and Ministers is not new. It didn't happen for the first time in the last week or weeks. It took place in the wake of the collapse of the economy when public trust in this institution and other social institutions broke very much. That discussion was halted, along with a discussion of many of the good things found in the bill of the Governing Body. The reason why people here protest and why the members of the board have been few in spite of economic prosperity is that people want more than economic prosperity. They want basic changes in how the Republic of Iceland works as a republic. The discussion took place, but it stopped. We're supposed to pick her up again. This, along with other events that have taken place since the release of that discussion, seems to be happening in the last few weeks. For 50th. The bill presented at the General Assembly is presented on interest registration and incapacity, by permission of the President: ▪ A member of the Parliament is forbidden to participate in the treatment of a church assembly that has special and serious interests or that is close to him. The legal qualifications of the senators should be further reputed. A senator's inadequacy does not affect the value of existing laws. The obligation of the Generals is required by the law to provide information on their financial interests. Two. 86. g. is shown by permission of the President: ▪ Ministers cannot discuss their affairs or do their work otherwise because of inadequacy or other circumstances, the prime minister is hiding a local minister. The prime minister will decide by the rules of localism that he himself needs to take his place or that he cannot serve in a temporary capacity. A respectable president. We have no excuse for discussing this first when it's in the hot tub. We should never have stopped talking about it at first. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u34	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u35	A respectable president. At the end of last week of politics, I had the privilege of attending the Council's Council of Overseers of Development. There I promised them that I would proudly want to represent him at the General Assembly. It's both sweet and related to me. For that reason, I would like to read the meeting's resolution, with the permission of the president: ▪ The Council of People with Implicit Development and the main meeting of Taket concludes that there is access to the community at a meeting. Having access to society is important to all. Living an independent life and sharing are human rights. In Iceland it is not for people and disabled people that are not enjoying their quality of life to have full access to society. Travellership is limited, not an option for everyone, no service impairment, no compensation is small, and we are not allowed to have a choice where we live or who we live. The ministry is often impaired and often arranged without consulting us. Therefore, we encourage governments, governments, and rural communities to respect and enforce covenants, laws and regulations that should give us the rights and rights of others in Iceland. Give disabled persons support that can lead to community access. The UN Convention on the rights of disabled people makes it clear that Member States should take appropriate measures to enable disabled people to live independent lives and to share fully in the community in all areas of life, i.e. Factors aimed at ensuring disabled persons access to the material environment, to transport, to information and communication, including information and communication technology, and to other assistance and services that are available to the public or provided to both urban and rural areas. This is not what we experience, so we demand improvement, that governments work hard to establish and validate the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people in this country, and that they respect the human rights of disabled people. [[The president calls.]] Nothing about us apart from us is a word that we want governments and those who present our affairs to be worth whenever it comes to our affairs. Call us to the table. As citizens, we want to be treated as such. It only increases our social availability and gives us a legal right to the same extent that others do. Escaping Council ▪ Developmentally-involved members of the European Union I agree with these requirements and wishes, as well as with members of any group where they stand to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u36	A respectable president. I'd like to see a discussion earlier about sitting next to me. paritaprevir The Þorstein Sæmundsson of Sæmund, at the United Nations Women's Convention, directs them to the Senate's President, that, now, in a budget for the council, the president of the Council assumes that from now on, from the Council of the United Nations, one woman from each political body will attend the General Assembly for the United Nations Women's Conference and that the General Assembly will take it into account. [[Up front.]] It's a women's conference, huh? men of men, whom therefore I speak for women. I challenge the highest. To make a request made at a council meeting not long ago, the president considers what can be done to ensure that this is done. Iceland has long been proud to stand in front of the women's freedom of rights and equal struggles, and it sounds kind of overwhelming that we don't as the General Assembly of the Icelandians send a female representative there. Those were my words, chief. President, in this discussion of the council because I feel that this is under the council, and we should agree that it is possible to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u37	A respectable president. This is a request for the highest. The Minister of Ministers has a complete assessment of the need to supply a new network of communications to the country and the economic effects of data from countries. Our neighbors, both the northern and the Irish, have worked hard to create an environment suitable for this work while the more demanding customers and people interested have not chosen Iceland. In Ireland, for example, Microsoft, Amazon, Apple, Google and Facebook have invested or informed plans to invest in data plants equivalent to 60 to 120 billion. Dataspaces and their infrastructures are the basis of high - tech industry, network stores, and Internet services. I'd like to draw attention to it because we often discuss less that this is the foundation for the high-tech industry, and I hope we have a good report and a good discussion on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u38	A respectable president. I want to start by celebrating this case and thank you. porter for volunteering. Many in Iceland have thought that we are especially successful when it comes to data sets, which is the case when it comes to electricity. However, there has been trouble with the fact that these are Internet connections around the world not the way they have to be in order for Iceland to become the attractive advantage we all want it to be. I welcome back to this matter, expecting that, as a result, the evidence will become available and will lead us to do wonderful things in this series of languages.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u39	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank all those who came into this national security policy and thank the former Minister, please. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, and what? paritaprevir Bjarnadóttir, who started this at the beginning and all other members of the Parliament in itself who came up with this process, the Foreign Affairs Committee for a good job, and, of course, to complete this project, and, of course, to officials of the State Department who came at a high level at this job. I'm glad it's getting into a house. However, we accept further work at national security policy, to apply the suggestions laid out in accordance with the synonym, etc. I hope there will continue to be as good cooperation as there will be future cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u40	Mr. President. This is a historic moment at the Council. They're accepting the first national security policy in the history of the Republic of Iceland. It's taken three years to win. This work has been done in excellent ways in all places. Three foreign ministers have been involved. One set out a policy, another cut an important knot on the case, and it will be involved in the third act of presenting a bill that forces the policy into operation. What may matter most is that they created the most possible agreement over the political situation. Of course, individual groups make a major disagreement on certain issues, yet the matter is presented with the support of all classes of the foreign committee. This is an indication of how the Council can carry out a difficult task, stand together, and in a poetic way to the conclusion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u41	A respectable president. I want to be like them. Senators who have spoken before rejoice that we have come to the point of accepting the first national security policy for Iceland. This is an important and big step. As mentioned earlier, it is important to know how it has been accomplished. That's why I want to take this opportunity and thank you for the best. Former minister of state, current drive. paritaprevir Össur's Aussie, son of Skarphéðinsson, for the way he's handled the case and held it, and for the present marine dignitary and agricultural minister, former foreign minister, for the way they have handled it, and much less so. A foreign committee and my associates there, where they noticed considerable employment, both in this council and in the preceding council, were to present this case, so that the committee is presented by representatives of all groups, although it will, of course, help identify differences between groups when it comes to major questions. It's just normal. I agree with what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson when he said: "It's the way to deal with situations when people put forth effort to do so. This is a huge and powerful political case that the Council is finishing here with great honor.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u42	V.E.G. President. In the left, we have a ◯ green supply that supports the adjustment proposals as well. The National Security Strategy for Iceland suggests that there are many and varied factors that could compromise national security, such as natural hazards, epidemics, and food security. However, from the beginning of work the left movement has held national security policy to support the movement that we consider the safety of Iceland to be the best safe city outside any military alliance and that the defence agreement against the United States will be dismissed. Therefore, the movement cannot support national security policies that go a different way; hence, we will sit by the final payment. But we support, as I say, the good changes proposed by the committee in their name.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u43	Mr. President. I join the joy of others. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers over this work and appreciation for all those who have come to it over a long period of time and many terms. This is a fine example of how all can succeed when they are called to the table and work together on a project. It's important for Iceland to have national security policy. We're about a lot of things involved, we don't run an army, which means that a large part of our national security is in the hands of the Third sector, a public organization like rescue teams. It is suggested that the government's policy on public security and security becomes part of national security policy. This is important, and there is reason to rejoice over this and the justice that will result.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u44	President. It's a good thing we're getting in here against national security policy, but it says, The proposal requires that national security policy be based on the commitments of the United Nations founding covenant and guided by the nation's baseline values, democracy and respect for justice and international law, human kindness and protection of human rights, the equality of all and sustainable development, the disarmament and peaceful solution of issues. The key element of policy is Iceland's position as a small island nation that has no authority or willingness to control an army and ensures its safety and defends by active cooperation with other countries and international institutions. It also shows that we want to be a nation without nuclear weapons. What matters are that we cannot be out of international agreement or international cooperation, and I find it very important to review it every five years that we continue the work of having real nuclear land and land cover.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u45	President. Like others before me, I rejoice that we have come to the conclusion of accepting national security policy in Iceland, which many have come to and do a good job. I can say, however, only that I wish that society had a different atmosphere when we take this great milestone than we do today. Security is based primarily on trust, and we here in this hall do not enjoy trust. Hopefully, there will be an election in the country quickly so that people with confidence can be seated here. I'm glad this course is in port, but I wish all of us the other, that we can renew our confidence in being in this room. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u46	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct any change in various laws on taxes and charges. These changes in various laws are of different nature, and the impact of individual productions on the quality of the State Fund is somewhat different, and I will be considering each adjustment in more detail. First of all, there's a reduction in the rate of public insurance. First, there is this general decline and the subsequent emphasis presented by the government groups in a government covenant and legalized it when it was decided to reduce a total of 0.34% in the years to come. This suggests that the overall insurance rate will be reduced by an additional 0.5 percentage points from July 1 to next. Insurance was raised in the wake of the financial collapse, both to cover the pay of increasing unemployment and to pay for financial funds. The insurance bill went from 5.34% in 2008 to 8.65% in 2010. The cutoffs of the insurance fee began in 2012, and with the reduction offered here, the bail bill will be 6.85%. In other words, it went to the highest of 8.65 percent and has this decrease to 6.85%. It is expected that this will reduce the income of the state's budget by 3.1 billion. In 2016, i.e. in 2016, but on a yearly basis in 2017, about 6.8 billion dollars. This amount goes up in line with the basic financial agenda of 2021 for the development of pay and thus becomes 8.6 billion. alone in 2021 C.E. On the contrary, the impact of the increased provision of enterprises to increase pay and thus increase income taxes by individuals, as well as the profit-employing revenue of companies, which increase to a decrease in insurance costs. This effect appears first in 2017, where it is deemed positive at 500 million. K. and then go up and study 1.4 billion times. in 2021. The insurance bill is heavy on SMEs, companies with high pay rates and a high national value. The changes presented here are expected to have a positive influence on the economic progress and to be used by governments for further reductions in insurance costs over the coming years. As a result, the government, the government, the government, the government, the government, the administrative organisations are now called by professional drivers and one of the key factors in maintaining peace in the labour market during the past year. So the proposal presented here to the council is directly linked to a workforce of peace. Here's what I recommend in particular, and I'm going to go back to the next thing that's out of the law on the fiscal stocks and investments that have been converted into a partner. That change was made by law No. 124/2015 that if the stock or investment fund is converted into a partner, this change should not result in a taxable income for the owners of the stock or company itself, because the stockholders have obtained only shares in the enterprise as a remuneration for their holdings in the stocks that were lost. It has been shown that according to law No. 128/2011, the stock market, the investment fund and the retail fund, are not allowed to change stock or investment reserves into a partner. So the law has no value and is suggested to remove it. Understandably, that change will have no effect on the survival of a Kingdom fund. IRS is the third factor in this bill. It is suggested that the plans to allow married couples and partners to make a taxation when one party is taxed in step three and the other is not, as well as the earner on a lost right in the second stage, from January 1, 2017, during the departure of the midpoint income tax. Those who followed this explanation have likely come to realize it - here is a sign of members of the Economic and Business Committee who know the matter very well - that here we are discussing a new adjustment set at the end of the previous year but should take effect at the beginning of the next year, on the equivalent of a tax step between a couple and a couple's partner. In short, this proposal is made after a closer examination of the matter and especially in view of how the administrative groups want to set priorities for the amount of space that may be available. Then there is the dramatic decrease I've been in and following a reduction in the insurance fee, but it can be said that this is one way in which a good part of my insurance reduction has been made, that the reduction is financial, by falling away from the change that has not yet been made. This entry is only allowed between the two upper stages in the current system and the logical that if there is a decrease in tax step to income taxes from 2017 to three to two, the resulting changes will be observed. There is more to mention here what is being discussed in this case than any viewpoint that might have raised on its benefits and shortcomings to make this change from the beginning of the next year, I am not going to go into more detail, I refer to the bill itself. On behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, they will explain the views that are widely relevant for the Economic and Business Committee, if further requested. The effect on the state funds in 2018 because of plans for this fall from operation is estimated to be positive at 3 billion dollars. every year. This is based on the precalculation of pay, stepmarks, and income tax change as laid down in December. This effect would have been observed only in 2018, where by 2017, we will be collected as the taxpayer in this country. This effect is still further forward, estimated to be about 3 billion until 2021. So there's a $3 billion figure in this case against under 7 billion per year on the insurance bill. Fourth, it is the legal adjustment required by the operator in order to contribute according to its annual tax returns, along with the dissociatives and explanations. In view of changes in annual accounts, where data are reduced as little partners need to include a annual bill in explanations, it is proposed that the operator be taken into account in order to submit their annual income and balance accounts along with the disintegration and explanations. It has been observed during the review of these parties' tax returns that clear information at this stage has rushed the review of tax returns and has prevented delays, letters, and unnecessary attention to the retailers. This is a necessary change that will strengthen the project and increase the security of the rights without any interference in the survival of the State Fund. Fifthly, legal corrections are due to changes made during the transfer of non-employment from a value tax. With law No. 125/2015 was added to the new provisional legislation on the merit tax due to the implementation of the law No. 124/2014. With law No. 124/2014 large changes were made in the expanded transport of people from a worthwhile tax. From January 1, 2016, public transportation, transportation, schoolchildren, and rental cars became acceptable taxes. Also large changes were made in the transport-based supplementation environment, where tourism was added to the tax-freeness of the tax-employment tax from the same time. Following completion of Track No. 25/2015 raised a legal opinion on the possible recovery of the law. In view of this, it is now suggested that "the word, or payment, be performed in part or fully in the earlier provision of the provision. " As a result of this change, the release of taxable goods and services for the validation of law No. 124/2014, i.e. Prior to January 1, 2016, there should be an exception to a worthwhile extra tax. The change will make it clear that the sellers of goods or services that published a sale account for January 1, 2016, or paid in advance for purchases or services for the date of purchases of products and services by law. 124/2014 clean up, but for the sake of the commercial tax, it is considered that they have received a concomitant version of the account or due to advance payment, i.e. by January 1st, 2016. The change is suggested as compared to January 1, 2016. The sixth point in this case is that toll numbers of beer-containing files are added to the annex to a valuable supplement of taxation. The bill suggests the addition of worthwhile taxation-shaped toll files which include malt containing more than 2.25% alcohol in volume. When changing law No. 125/2015, on various grounds of budgetary bill, alcohol was transferred from the general level of the value tax to the lower level of the value tax tax, i.e. 11%. At the same time, the alcohol charge was raised. At the conversion of 1 January 2016, toll files in certain alcoholic drinking products were added to the annex to a suitable supplementary tax. However, the toll numbers containing drinks were not specifically specified. Although the general comments of the law, the equation, and the previous implementation of a law on worth taxation, it is reasonable that a tax pool should be taxed in the lower level of merit tax returns, it is appropriate to provide stronger support for that project and, in particular, indicate the toll number containing ale. This is in harmony with the law No. 125/2015, where alcoholic drinking products in certain toll files were added to the law's Annex and specified in the Annex to a suitable supplementary tax laws. In the context of the proposed change, it is suggested that the implementation of the regulations be repeated on January 1, 2016, and that the regulations changed by the law of No. 125/2015 when alcohol was transferred from general level to lower level of cost tax. This change is designed primarily to strengthen action and to increase the security of the rights and will not affect the survival of a government fund. Seven: changes in the spending of taxes are recommended out of local pay. There is a law on insurance pay, which includes nonrefunded fees. A similar law is not found in the laws on capital taxes. The tax stock is the same in both cases or in any form of pay or a profession, each name called. It is therefore reasonable to note that the spending of unfinished capital and non-retail tax would be on November 1 and one month later, in accordance with the law on insurance. This is a necessary adjustment that will strengthen and explain the procedure and increase the security of the court without affecting the contribution of the State Fund. Eight, I'd like to mention the separation and availability of store sales for goods. The bill suggests a change in customs laws that require the authority to sell from tax-free markets that are authorised by the law. Tolls show the principle that only passengers and crews from abroad can be sold out of the country of tax - restricted goods. However, toll managers are authorized to deviate from the principle and to allow lawyers who are authorized to run a tax-free trade to sell passengers and crews from abroad upon arrival in the country products of tax-free commerce, i.e. A store in everyday speech is called a stop shop. The legal authority for the establishment trade is tight, stating, in effect, that a post office should be specially restricted and available only for passengers and crews to come to the country. A law of special separation and limited access to a local store to its roots is attributed to the exception of the principle of the law, which is expected to be restricted to the products of such stores. In order to balance the domestic trade position with the post office, it is suggested that the separation and access of the posts for goods are clearly established. As a result, in practice, banning the order store at a retail store is required as it has been done. That arrangement has come under some criticism. On the contrary, the view that those who have the work permit and will do their business points out that the service has been quite popular and happy with it, but I believe that in this regard it has to be looked forward to a union that is, in fact, a state on which the State operates, the bloodline of Istavia. When the state settleds in the business field as it has been done in this case, I believe that we should limit our activity as possible and minimise conflicts as possible without pushing over to the purpose of the store, minimising conflicts with private citizens who shop with the same free competition. By this I am in effect to say that if the government had chosen the way of simply offering out the area where the retailing of the post office was simply hidden by private agents on some defined basis by the management of the store, it might have been possible to say that some other viewpoint applies, since it would have been decided to maintain an invitation and allow men to run the business on predetermined grounds. However, since this is a community society, I believe that other viewpoints and the State are lasting too far under the circumstances by offering service to the post office - not the post office, pardon, that is not the correct concept, a sort of order shop where arrangements can be made for such a safe haven, and even paid when you go to the flight crew. This should have a slight negative impact on the return conditions for the state's funds. After all, the net effect of the proposal is expected to be negligible for financial funds. In the ninth, there is a law modification that affects with any local store, but not only. In the end, the law of drinking and tobacco's fees changes. The law allows the principle that those who import alcohol into the country have an obligation to pay an alcohol charge for the import. In accordance with the principle that alcohol consumption is canceled to a certain extent by the import of certain persons. In particular, the law states that alcohol costs should be canceled or reimbursed for certain amounts of alcohol as tourists, shipmates of Icelandic ships, or ships owned by Icelandic citizens, and the pilots brought back to the country. The above directives are somewhat complex and have been spent considerable time in providing the requirements for free import, especially for tourists, but most likely they are aware of the need to consult the rules in this subject, e.g. to the station at Keflavík, Leifs Station. With a view to simplifying and improving the effectiveness of the project, i.e. Guidelines and monitoring are suggested to adopt the criteria for free import of tourists, shipmates and airliners, which have reference to common sales units, especially for wines and drinks. Unity refers to every 0.25 litre of strong wine, every 0.75 gallons [0.75 L] of wine, equivalent to one standard wine bottle, and each three quarts [3 L] of bottle. Thus one litre of strong alcohol contains four units, but it is common that strong alcohol is sold in a one litre container in these stores and elsewhere. Four bottles of wine become four units and six bottles or cans containing 0.5 litres of ale are considered one unit. Travelers will be able to import free six units, shipmates 11 units longer than 15 days on the road, and other six units like tourists. The pilots can import five units if they are more than 15 days old than the second three units. If the change is adopted, those who are free of charge will have more time to choose between different combinations of alcohol for import. In addition, it is predictable that toll government monitoring will, in part, be simpler. If the adjustment to the law is thought to have some effect on the income of a state fund of alcohol, because of the increase in sales at a sea free to buy in the country. According to an revised budget for the current year, estimated revenues of alcohol costs are 15.9 billion. Based on the estimated reduction in alcohol consumption within the country by 152%, an estimated 200 million would be reduced in income costs. K. Each year, but as agreed on, these programmes are extremely uncertain. Due to increased sales and the lower yields of the HTVR and other sources who sell alcohol so as to arrive anyway, the figure should be unchanged. Overall, it may seem that the effects of this change have been estimated to be very minimal in the large context. This is a simple rule that gives greater freedom of choice and should minimise the need for instruction that has been prominent in current activities. If the bill remains the law, it should have a positive effect on public interest and stakeholders. Its influence on government and institutions is considered negligible. On the other hand, the government fund will be made up of less - than - a - short income money as a weakness from its produce, but the effect should mostly be balanced over a longer period of time. The overall impact of the bills on government funds is a negative factor of 3.1 billion this year, 6.3 billion in 2017, 3.3 billion U.S. By 2018 and 3.5 billion in 2021, the bill will remain under law. Therefore, the recovery of households and enterprises should generally be achieved, but it is not possible to divide the effects between households and enterprises in this respect. The most important factor for the recovery is the changes announced on the insurance bill. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u47	V.E.G. President. I noticed that there are some legal modifications here, including... a law that was approved to 2015 which could not be accepted by any other law in 2011. But I'm not gonna ask you that. There is also a change in the value tax on transport and alcohol costs. These three points point to working on these changes back then that they were not good enough and that there was some gap in the law we have set. I'm very sorry. My question to the highest. Secretary of the bill transports to this: This is an offer of a reduction in insurance fees, which I think all agree on, including: Promises of collective agreements and stuff like that. It has been stated here on how insurance was raised during the economic fall, including the year 2000. to finance unemployment, etc. But I noticed, a respected president, that here is a proclamation of altering laws that allow marriage and partners to match between two tax steps from January 1, 2017, and influence on the income of the state's funds is positive at $3 billion. If I get it right, it's $3 billion. Then the question is: Is the cost of paying up taxes on the individuals who enjoy it in tax laws today?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u48	A respectable president. No, changing the law's legal requirements is not being financed. This was a change taken up at the World Council for the last Christmas, and it was supposed to take effect at the start of the next year. It has never been made up, but it would have been as if I traced my case to affect the income of a state fund to decrease in 2018. Those who agree with this change of law, those who might have made it especially useful for them to have been able to move between their tax steps in the way required, are those at the top of today and then become in the upper step when the change in tax steps will be fully implemented for the next year's conventions. In a sense, this would have been a tax reduction, which would have been mainly the new upper party and those with the higher income. What we're doing here is that it can't be a priority now to finish this case, but it's going to be such a change to get a second opinion. In order to achieve our objective in terms of total wealth and government income development, we put it back in order to end this change that has not yet been made, but we give it much more emphasis on the insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u49	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance for these answers to tax laws that have not been implemented in marriage, as we have seen here. In his reply to my question, I feel that I have received confirmation that by 2017, the taxpayers in the country who had fallen under this view would pay 3 billion less taxes, this law would not pass through. Then it's taking this estimated tax reduction that I have no particular opinion of, whether it's right or wrong, I just stopped when I heard it earlier, and I want to say it again, a respectable President, that it's a government fund to cancel paying taxes to these people by 3 billion and to accept the tax, so it's like the Supreme Court. A financial minister says to reduce the income effect on the insurance. In 2017, tax returns by 3 billion on those who would have fallen under those laws of taxes. Thus, the reduction of insurance is being financed by spending more than an estimated amount of money in 2017 on those below. Enough about that. So it is clear. The other thing I want to ask the highest. I have to admit that I haven't realized if this is a new statement - I notice that there's no conventional financial cost at the end of the bill, as you have been able to go through it, but it's point number 7 in terms of impact. It may well be that, on a financial and tax committee, people can go through this to see the change and the income effect and the effect this has on plus and minus the government budget, but I'm asking the highest degree. Secretary of finance, just as in my previous question, whether or not we agree on this decrease or increase, on this point, whether this is a new question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u50	A respectable president. Yes, we agree on that. You're absolutely right. A senator that if we were to let the law stand, the taxes would have dropped by 3 billion for the upper average income and higher income, especially for him. We're saying that such changes get back on top of things, and we put more emphasis on the insurance, and we're going to lower it by less than 7 billion while this change dropped by 3 billion. I also think that the income tax also drops at the next year, as per legal basis. This happens when the middle phase falls out by the next year to the same law and the tax returns. We reduced the income tax in two steps, this year, and the beginning of the next year. I agree with what. A senator, I'm sorry that we had to correct the previously approved law. We take responsibility for this in the Ministry of finance, but of course the matter has also received a thorough inspection at the council and is unfortunate that we have not been able to figure this out. One change in itself is completely harmless because it had no practical value, it is only a legal cleansing of it. Other factors had created certain uncertainties that we wanted to destroy. Regarding the migration and the merit tax I've been crossing, it's also important to sharpen lines. But I also have to say just as it is that we've been making a huge change in the worthy tax system that has been working very hard and that it's all gone very well. These are minor adjustments that you could assume would require action.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. I like the financial and economic secretary's bill. There's a lot of good things going on down there, so I don't talk about losing the insurance money that many people have missed and have been waiting for a long time. But there is one thing I would like to reflect on that I must admit to only disappoint myself. It's falling from a couple's sabbatical at the top step. I wondered which groups are at the top of that one. Yes, I think of sailors. Is it not best for sailors who are on higher incomes and for whom their mate cannot work outside, since the sailor is one of the breadwinners? Now we know that the sailors are making negotiations and are looking at these matters very carefully. It's the highest. Ministers have no fear that this will not help in their discussion? Now we know that other groups, such as pilots and flight attendants, who are under similar circumstances, have irregular work hours and one person works outside the home, have tax-free days, while sailors receive food money and have to pay their taxes full. They've just taken off their sailor discount. It's the highest. There's no fear of this adding to the dissatisfaction, perhaps involving negotiations between sailors and road users?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u52	Mr. President. With the exception of the bill on an outpost for the broken-down financial companies from the bank tax, I don't recall being here measuring for a change in the law that led to an increase in taxes. True, we have paid a centennial fee in return for the price of some years, but I have found pleasure in coming here in a public chair and measuring the tax reductions on companies and the public primarily and above all else. We have made significant progress in this. That particular change we are discussing and what we are doing. A senator asks about many things and is good. These are all very valid views presented here. We are faced with the need to set priorities. We don't get all our goals at once. When we started setting priorities on how we wanted to create space for the individual issues and resources, we concluded that, despite the fact that there were many things we would like to do, it was a majority of support at the council after setting up for the economic and business committees and receiving good support there, it was approved at the General Assembly for not months, it would be right to prioritise the conditions of society today, an enormous increase in money gain, especially for those who have benefited from this change, including sailors, and to create a compromise in the state's budget for the reduction of insurance. This is not overcrowded, as it is, and perhaps to discuss whether any other viewpoint should be discussed in the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u53	A respectable president. I don't intend to minimize the taxes at the highest. A minister has stood in the way, and I have given him my full support, is absolutely in it. But I just wanted to point this out because I know it's in sailors that it's only in the last term, whether it wasn't then, that the sailor's discount was taken from them. It's a little psychological, it wasn't a good message, and it was a bad idea for men, as well as the fact that other comparable groups get a degree of favor because of their daily money, while they get no favor of equal payment, which is food money. But I encourage members of the committee to look into these matters. I think most people would agree that this takes on sailors, that they can't share tax, that's why it was very nice to agree in the late autumn to allow these agents to make use of a partner's tax rate. So I challenge it. The members of the Economic and Business Committee to consider this, and they were confident that a minister would show them understanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u54	A respectable president. It is true that there was much that suggested a special seaman's discount at the time. I'm sure there's a certain flexibility in the tax system, but at the same time, I've felt that the best thing to do is to have low taxes and as simple as possible. For example, we see this example that if we wanted to reach seamen specifically by having this transfer authorized, we would be on our way to a much larger group. We also see that while there is good evidence for taking into account the unique nature of the seaman work and especially for sailors who spend long periods of time abroad, other classes may be found that have not been used by special discounts. Therefore, I have come to believe that we should try to reduce the number of exceptions, although I think that there may be some need for some flexibility in the system, have the taxes low, and simply put them on the job drivers to pay the required pay and right to do according to the pressures and jobs involved. But there's no black/white in it, as is true with so many other cases here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u55	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in various laws to support funding and recruitment of innovation companies and smaller growing enterprises. These changes are of different nature, and the impact of individual methods on the quality of the Kingdom Fund is somewhat different, and I will, in discussion of the changes made in each form, explain them more fully. First of all, taxation is the taxation of the stock market. First, in the bill it is suggested that the tax treatment be changed because of the purchase of the stocks he has acquired for another person's work, that they be taxed at the sale of the stocks instead of the delivery date or current releases. So if the bill is legal, the employee will not pay taxes on a contract day or when he releases the letters. Taxation is delayed until the stock are sold, and the difference between the purchase price per remuneration agreement and the retail price is considered to be payable. Today, taxation will take place in the use and inflation prices laid out on the pay taxation of the bonus, considered as stocks for later sales, and a profit from the sale, thus considered to be a source of capital gain in the hands of the seller. This is a much called change. It was interesting to see in the news today from Sweden that the manager of the company that runs the popular music network of Spotify pointed out that there is a problem with these taxes in Sweden. This is a provision that only concerns it, as I've traced it here, when the taxation takes place. Second of all, taxation is the change of bonds. The interest of the owner of changing bonds converted into stocks at a lower price than in the general market is currently taxed in the use of change rights. Therefore, if an individual is a owner, he must be given a budget tax, even though he has not sold any financial letters. In terms of the nature of the case, the potential loss is always possible, and the owner has paid taxes on something that eventually became nothing but loss. Therefore, it is suggested in the bill that taxation will be postponed until the stock market, in the case of individuals, which would make this funding much more attractive to investors and to the extent that taxation will be more reasonable. It is assumed that the financial impact of the change in taxation rights and changing bond will be seen in the future, although some transfer may take place in income tax dollars from year to year. Third, the taxation of foreign experts. The bill offers a suggestion for the tax will for foreign experts based on a Swedish model. The proposal encourages a company to set up high quality jobs within the country and makes it easier for them to contact members of the country who have the necessary knowledge and skills so that they do not need to conduct the work abroad. The presence of foreign experts also strengthens education, technology, research, evolution, and innovation in the land, a language that all countries strive to see alive or to grow in their own habitat. Foreign experts who stay in this country for a limited period of time cannot fully enjoy the public service that is financed by taxes. Those outside the EEA applying for employment and residence permits in Iceland would need to make their own insurance policy. In addition, foreign experts do not use public unemployment or disability insurance where their housing is granted on the basis of employment. Then foreign experts have taken education in schools abroad, and the public has not cost much because of their education. This can be said to be an absolute principle, although it can be found in exceptional circumstances. Many valuables can be found in gaining expertise in the country where knowledge is limited in individual fields. Because of this, countries such as Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, the Netherlands, and Canada have set rules on this precisely, taxical incentives to attract foreign experts, and are important factors in ensuring competitiveness in the commercial environment of the countries. Iceland is the only northern nation that has not legalized laws intended to improve the environment of foreign experts, such as experts in research and development, production, management, planning, marketing, engineering, financial, information technology, communication and teaching, to name something. The international experts who will take advantage of this warrant will only be taxable by 75% of their income, 25% of which will be tax-free and reserve standard pay during the first three years of employment recruitment. Still, insurance and pension pay are paid from the totals, regardless of the deduction. The same applies to children's payments and growth reforms. An institution of an independent committee reviewing written applications is expected and confirmed or denied that a certain foreign expert meets the criteria for the withdrawal of income tax stocks. The effects of tax appeals to foreign experts on the survival of a government fund are very vague. It can be said that they will be positive, as an expert would not have become an Icelandic taxpayer. What is largely unclear is the impact of the import of foreign experts under the premium of tax incentives will have on a domestic labour market when the labour demand is as high as it is currently. In view of this uncertainty, the benefits and costs of this operation are not expected at this time. This is close to pointing to the fact that other countries, all the countries I have mentioned, and especially the northern countries, have seen reason to introduce and maintain the standards of this kind. Fourth, there's a tax charge on the stock market. The bill contains changes in the pressures of public pay over nearly three years, between 2017, 2018, and 2018, due to investments in 2016, the current year, 2017 and 2018, and the setting up of a new tax exchange system for individuals on the basis of stock markets. Individuals with limited and unlimited tax obligations in this country and who invest in partners who meet the requirements of the arrangement will be able to reduce their income taxand raise to 30% of their investments each year. This means that the law will take investments in 2016 to meet the other criteria of the law. The aim of the proposal is to promote innovation and growth by promoting investors who are investigating a measure of investment to promote new stock growth. The underlying fact is that an unskilled firm that has descended from the cutting point and is about to begin growing have often limited access to additional funding in the form of loan or stock increase usually ends with venture capital investments. On the other hand, growth of such enterprises can lead to greater prosperity for society in the long term. If the bill is legal, it will lead to small enterprises'being able to increase their share by means of investments by half of individuals in the event of an increase in stocks in partnerships and private partners. The bill presents the conditions that both individuals and societies need to meet so that such investments can be considered a deduction from the individual income taxes. In order to be entitled to recovery, an individual must invest in a partner for a minimum of 500 you. K. In an calendar. There is no withdrawal due to overall investment of more than 10 million per year. This requires that an individual be able to prove that an investment has been fully paid. This ensures that the individual's share was paid for the distribution of the stocks, and this also leads to a normal financial growth in the company. In addition, it is a requirement for investment as a result of some financial growth in a partner and for the subsequent failure of investments. The Society shall also have provided a list to the head of state tax for the participants of the stock increase and for the increase in part-alarms. In order to invest in a partner, the person who invests may not be associated with the Society or its members at a certain time period, i.e. two years before and three years after the documented stock gains. This is where I've traced the conditions that concern the person who invests, but in terms of the budget that is invested, there are also certain conditions. First, it needs to be founded in Iceland. However, investment includes members established in other EEA countries, EFTA countries or the Faeroes if they have a fixed employment station in Iceland. Second, the law takes only on investments in partners who have no more than 25 employees and whose partner has a monthly budget of less than 650 billion. K. and/or account under 650 million. An e. g., but it means an approved annual account for the last year. Third, all minimum share money from an institution's organisation must be completed and so society is no longer at its early level but at its height. Fourth, the law does not include partners who are registered or registered in stock markets, including financial markets. Fifth, it does not include a society that has since the time limit of the original stock growth in the market longer than four years since its first commercial sale, i.e. from the time it was first sold for business purposes in a product or service market outside a limited sales to test the market. sixth, the company needs to be run for profit, i.e. with the aim of promoting profits, and in this context, there must be a taxable taxpayer, who is not free of tax due according to legal tax laws. In the 7th and 8th, companies who have financial problems outside the set limits of the law will agree with the enterprises that the Icelandic state has on the outgoing remuneration requirement because of an illegal state's support. In the 9th, the bill assumes that companies have submitted an annual account within the specified delay, and 10th, that the value of the stock growth will be used in the interests of its business or in preparation for such business. 11thly, it is stated that a total of 2 billion dollars can be studied by a partner. and if the company is a member of a group community, it reaches the limit to the overall improvement. It is stated in Article 12, that if the partner has received confirmation of the government tax driver's authority to meet the requirements of the law in the form decided by the governor, he can require the Society for the data he considers necessary. The decision of the head of the tax can be made by the head of the head of the Treaty on the Treaty. It also requires monitoring of the head of state tax and information to the general population, but there is a clear need for individuals to be aware of whether the planned purchase of certain stocks will be considered to be under the rules of the law on deduction. With the bill it is not yet a means of limiting the tax rate to investments in innovation companies, it is very difficult to establish clearly which companies are considered to be a innovation company. Societys in a particular activity that is not considered necessary to support specifically with a particular tax charge fall outside the scope of the law. Here's a bit of a problem, but when it comes to a different route of action, looking to the nature of the operation is not completely out of the question. In contrast, there is no reason to encourage and strengthen investments in these stated sectors that appear on the bill and that are further explained by the perspective in the bill's report. For example, a business venture involving real estate or deposit does not fit here; the business of property does not depend on the law, the activities involved in a foreign service, and counseling experts and activities of film making, but as everyone knows, the film sector of Iceland has its own special rules on a large scale. If an individual sells his or her letters to a partner within three years, it is assumed that the deduction should be replaced, and the tax rate is not thought to be due to short-term investments. The same applies if a person becomes involved with the company or if the Society or its activities no longer meet the requirements or fail to comply with the requirement, e.g. if you check into a stock market within three years of your investment. However, this is not appropriate during the three-year period after the financial growth if the company is cut off on the basis of real business concerns. A new deduction should be moved to the revenue of the stock market year. It is assumed that if the tax rate is higher than the income taxpayer's taxpayers plus capital income on anal wound, the excess will move from year to year until it is fully used, but not for more than the next three years. What is ruined by the deduction process after three years falls. The secretary's authorization is then taken into account to set up a regulations that require further details on the implementation of the procedure. The tax returns system proposed here can fall within the EU population rules for assistance in venture capitalism, No. 651/2014, which went into effect on July 1, 2014. Therefore, the system does not have to be specifically reported to the ESA and approved before it takes effect. For evaluation of the impact of this new investment initiative on income taxation, it is corrosively blind to the ocean, especially in view of the high-risk investment, as stated, but not in general, individual savings. This is where it is just assumed that 1,200 individuals will benefit from the discount of the date of the discount, i.e. the next three years, but less the first year. [[Up front.]] All of this is done in order to draw up some stage to help prepare a discussion on the impact of the matter on the income of a government fund. On the basis of these options, the estimated loss of government funds on income taxes to individuals is 300 million in the first year, 400 million in the second two years. It should be stated that this is a direct short term effect, which should be equal in the long term because if the change achieves its aims, more companies will grow and thrive and, of course, return income so that the thought of the bill is, of course, a positive, long - term attitude toward the State's income level. Fifth, there is an increase in the reference height for the research and development costs of innovation companies. The bill suggests that current tax returns to innovation companies, which are found in the law on supporting innovation companies. On one hand, it is proposed to maximise the study and development costs for general reference of withdrawals to increase from 100 million. K. into 300 million. K. and, however, to maximise the study and development cost for reference recovery increases from 150 million. K. 450 million. K. in the case of precipitating research and development services from unauthorized companies, universities or research institutions. It is the policy of the government to increase the support and support of technology development in Iceland, and this increase in thresholds is an important step in this process. At the pressures of public pay on an enterprise, for 2015, compared to the 2014 business, these figures were expressed at 1.2 billion dollars. It should be noted that this money is viewed as a direct government grant, and it is given as an investment in a government budget, not as a decrease in partner income tax. According to the government, these rules have contributed to commercial research and development over the past few years in rhythms with government policy and, as a result, to some degree, to a degree exceed the price development of the period. Both of these guidelines have remained stable since the law went into effect, so it has become time to raise them. As I mentioned, this indiscretion took up a total of 1.2 billion dollars. in 2015 due to budgets in 2014. This amount is expected to increase about 1 billion dollars. On a yearly basis, though, it is difficult to predict this accurately. sixthly, correction of the decision-to-treat under the definition of small enterprises and a reference to a new Regulation. Finally, a correction of the well-being of the definition of small enterprises and a reference to a new Regulation in the legislation on supporting innovation enterprises and the legislation on the appeals to new investments in Iceland is proposed. In accordance with the Commission Regulation, the annual budget of a small enterprise is less than 10 million euro and/or an account of less than 10 million euro, but not 2 million euro, as established by the current legislation. It is therefore proposed to correct the budget, as well as to change a reference to the Commission Regulation, where a new Regulation has replaced the older ones. It cannot be seen that this correction will affect the survival of a government fund. A respectable president. The combined effect of the bill, if it is agreed as it should, will be on some level negative in the short term. For example, the stock discount will first affect the pressures of income tax in individuals in reduction in the years 2017-2019 as described earlier. The increased support of investors investing in research and development will raise the financial spending and therefore have a negative impact on the future. In the long run, however, the effect should be that we see positive developments on the income side of the financial budget ends the purpose of all the changes to promote future prosperity. I haven't specifically traced it, but the timelines for tax returns due to stock markets are in their own way designed to be appreciated in the future. For years, it has been working to put together exactly these suggestions. As people have observed, in the case of the growing stock markets, there are countless conditions for both the buyer and the budget itself, which must meet the rules and the discounts. In recent years, the European Union's regulations have undergone a number of changes, but we have experienced in this government during this ideal period that it is highly pressured by those working in this field, to nurture companies that are getting up to the point of growth, that it will be better done in fixing the regulation and increasing the competitiveness of Iceland when it comes to securing these future jobs and this future activity. This is all in agreement, and I want to state that we have had a good conversation and an excellent conversation with those who work in the field of these matters. I believe we have succeeded in meeting the viewpoints that need to be viewed. As often as it is possible to have an opinion of the process, the progress presented here has had a lot of criticism, and I want to thank all those who have cooperated with us on this process and have put forth a great deal of thought. A respectable president. To this end, I suggest that the bill be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u56	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Financial and economic secretary for this bill, which I think is an enormous step towards Icelandic employment and innovation in the country. Here are some of the principles that are of utmost importance, and I welcome all of them, especially I think that will be of major importance to the roof in terms of deduction and development costs. I would have wanted to ask the highest. Minister only in two, first of all, a tax discount for investment in stocks. This is an enormous number of conditions, and some raise questions that are likely to be explained by the committee, such as. The seventh condition, that the company should not have financial problems. What Is a Companion in Money Problem? That can be vague, especially in this regard. I've been working on innovation companies, all in financial trouble for the first ten years, but they're still the largest and most important companies in the country. How sad it would be if this were to be interpreted so that such companies could not make any money under these markings! It is also stated in the fifth condition that this is not to be done after four years of first sale of the company. I think there's something wrong. This may be some requirement from the European Union. As is often done there, large companies are written there, not small wands. But I would think that this is not a good motive. What is meant by stock market registration? Is it also the market of companies from the main list? Is it also about the other market for smaller companies? Besides, I would have liked to come up in a later answer and discuss only a tax discount on experts, but I'm going to make this work for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u57	Mr. President. I agree that it is crucial that the conditions are clear and that there will not be very much space left to interpret or interpret them so that they can come back to people, or that the legislation is simply not clear enough. This financial issue is clearly stated on the basis of associates with such financial problems that they do not seem to have an elevated hope and the proposed amount of money is some unattainable rescue operation that is unlikely to get the community back on track. I'll mention it as an example, but it's an experience. The senator will no doubt benefit greatly from examining these conditions. The same is true of conditions referred to there. As to the registry, it is likely to indicate that people do not make use of a tax charge shortly before the obvious registration opportunities because communities that are close from receiving registration may not be as likely to need an injection of what we are discussing here. I'll call back to the fact that we're talking about the tax rate being unable to take on less money than 500 of you. At least, but to a maximum, the tax rate was won by 10 million. It must also be seen from the point of view that these are already up - to - date attempts to separate big money from it. It's a bit difficult to aim only at the number of employees because, as shown in a paper with the bill, all the major, overwhelming numbers of companies in Iceland have few employees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u58	A respectable president. I can see why, then, this financial problem should be interpreted rather narrowly. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would have thought that instead of having 30% of the investor's money, instead of buying 10 million, they could, at the most, withdraw 3 million if they bought for 10 million - it's not all possible to buy 10 million. Perhaps it would have been more reasonable to those who do not have much money to make such an effort to have the recovery of rather than 50%, as it is in Sweden for perhaps less money to make sure that more people could participate. I don't think it's good about keeping employees out of it. Often it is important for employees to be able to enjoy being part of the company. I would like to know if this could be changed or if this is also required by the EU. Finally, I would like to mention rules for specialists, which, according to this point, give 25% discount from taxes for three years, they would have offered some knowledge that is not available here only to a small degree. I know this is done somewhere else in the North. I've always felt that this energy was very critical. True, it is important to have good knowledge of the land, but it is only in the hands of the companies who see their own advantage in doing so. The Kingdom is not to be accepted in this way. The fact that experts sit side by side, both with rare knowledge and work in a Icelandic knowledge company, and another pays 25% less taxes, I don't like it. The other experts may have responded by making their move to the northern countries to enjoy the same benefits there. We could actually be opening up here a wormhole. If we would like to draw up knowledge here, would it not be more so that we would draw it from countries with good education but perhaps offer a small salary like India, where there are very well educated people who would definitely want to come here without making claims about paying taxes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-13-97.u59	Mr. President. These are all the things I expect men to consider carefully. Of course, these are always assessments. This 10 million figures like what? One senator says that there are 3 million of them, 30% of them. That's about the 3 million that the tax stock loses, and the number of taxes is the percentage of the 3 million. Should it have been higher percentages and lower total financial values? I don't think it's in itself up to any huge amount of money, even though it's right. One senator says that not all of us have 10 million investments, but it can be pointed out that there is a total of half a million that is as much as one average wage in Iceland, a monthly average wage. They were trying to make sure that this was a fine balance. With regard to foreign experts, we have felt that there is a great shortage of international corporate activity in Iceland. I think it's just one piece in a bigger picture that we need to finish. To illustrate: We need to focus more on building up international schools for the children of employees and other international employees who come to our country. That's one part of the bigger picture that's going to have to be okay. In terms of how fair or how unfair this is, I think it is wise for us to listen to what is called behind in this field and to look for examples that proved to be well - tested elsewhere. It will then only reveal how much of the provision will be. If we see that this will result in great success, we will receive that information from the workplace. If the law does not produce long - term results, it does not seem to be what was needed to increase the variety of expertise in Iceland, then it just goes on. [[The president calls.]] But I don't think there's any reason to take it off the board. This is one of the things you call after getting fixed to make Iceland a better place for international activity. [[The president calls.]]
