ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u1	A respectable president. The letter of the president has been given as follows: Iceland's number tells: Prime Minister has informed me that the need to call the Allied Council together to discuss the headwork and training bans of the air traffic manager working for Isa ohf. Therefore, as directed by the prime minister, I have decreed that the Council shall meet at the subsequent meeting on Wednesday, June 8, 2016. 15th We're going to Bress, 8 June 2016. Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet for an extended meeting. I offer the highest. President and w. All council members welcome the work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u2	On Friday, June 3, Jón Skaftason, a former general, died at the Sunnhölund nursing home in Kopavogi. He served as a General Assembly officer for the National Assembly in the Rhine District of 1959,1978. He was in his 90's when he died. Jón Skaftason was born in Akureyri on November 25, 1926, but he grew up with his parents, but he and his mother, Skafti Stefánsson, a artisan who made up an altar on Nöf, and his wife, Helga Sigurlína, a housewife's Jónsdóttir. In 1947, Jón completed a student's school exam from Akureyri High School, and a law test from the University of Iceland in 1951. The district attorney's court granted him 1955, and he was entitled to a lawsuit at the 1961 Supreme Court. After a university test, Jón was at various jobs at his father's Sports Office, a renowned candidate, who, along with others, ran one of the largest herring devices in the country for years. Jón became a representative of the 1952 State Tax Committee and later the Ministry of Financial Affairs in 1955-1961. Along with these duties, he ran a legal office in Reykjavík, Kópavogi, and Keflavík, in 1955,1960. During those years, the advance group worked very hard to strengthen their position in the southern urban region. Jón Skaftason was then elected to the company's leading party in the vicinity of the capital, first became a member of the Council of Kópavogi 1958, and a year later the class's senior seat in the newly formed Rhine Kingdom. He received a fine vote for them and became the head of the party in the district for two decades, a senator until the death of 1978, when the forward movement became extremely difficult. At that time, Jón left the assembly and turned to other jobs. He became the head of the Ministry of Business and later the head of the city in Reykjavík and the county after a change in the government's commission in 1992. So it was his job to mold the county office. He was a shopkeeper for 1994. Jón Skaftason was a member of his career, both general and official, a number of committees, especially in the seaside fields. He actively participated in the international work of the Generals, served a long time in the Council of the Northern Country and other international committees, and served at the branch office of the Federal Bank in 1975,1980, and president of the United States of 1977. When Jón Skaftason was a young man, he attended a council, but he spent the first three terms, 12 years, in a position of government. Although he did not always mix with his company's leader, he enjoyed the dignity of partymen for his honor and for his political firmness. His career and fas were considered to give a good look to his party here in the urban area. He was a zealous senator, active and organized, and found himself loyal and kind in cooperation. He was the most involved in fishing, and he enjoyed his experience in the years in which he lived, and he applied himself to innovation and research while he was sitting at the General Assembly. As an official, Jón was successful and maintained a good order on his work. I'll ask a world of council to remember Jón the son of Skaftason by rising from their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u3	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct the continuation of the social strike action of the Icelandic flight manager against Istavia. Knowingly, the overtime ban on Isa on April 6 began. and probationary bans on May 6. The actions include untimely overtime bans and bans on the practical training of students. A controversy with the employment community, which is being signed on behalf of Istavia, was referred to the state of the Union on February 23 of that day. Little that has not been won by those talks and treaties in front of us, despite the availability of state lines and the fact that more than 20 negotiations have been held. In view of the lack of success of negotiations by debates and the possibility of a solution in the near future, it is not necessary for the government to cut the knot. The importance of public interest is at stake where air transport is a true biohazard for the country in which the public and commercial life must be able to rely, and under no circumstances should any break. The interference and uncertainty that these measures have already caused significant damage, and there is a high risk that there will be much more if there is no intervention. First, it is impossible for the State to carry out its legal duties and services, including international commitments and to ensure practical and safe air traffic services. Secondly, the overall interest of the entire sector is within the category of employment, i.e. Tourism. Third, economic stability is not to be compromised by unforeseeable results in a labour market. V.E.G. President. The actions have affected domestic flights, flights to and from the country, and all flights through Icelandic air space. Iceland has made a commitment to the North Atlantic air travel service and to ensure that a service is run safely, efficient and practically. It is evident that existing measures can prevent this commitment, which can lead to serious consequences for the work here in the country, a currency industry, and to improve Iceland's competitiveness in flying transport. As these actions delay, there will be an increased risk of safety. It is important to ensure security and stability in this service, and it is not possible for the State to allow controversy to affect these vital factors. At that time, the actions have been damaging to all aircraft that do not have any place in this country, and the Icelandic government is responsible for securing services. The importance of air transport is higher in this country than in most other countries, in view of the fact that flying is the only practical means of transport to and from the country. Already, the forced action of the Icelandic air traffic manager has lasted for more than two months and it is clear that citizens will not be able to get together soon. Prohibition results in the inability to awaken in cases of illness or other factors and the consequences of dismissing flights from the Icelandic airport, delaying arrivals and departures at the Cheflavour airport, and greatly slowing down the movement of the approach and arrival. This has already affected the 1,200 Icceland flights, disrupting 200 you. A passenger. At that time, the estimated cost of international airlines is coming, flying around the Icelandic air space without a stop on the land, at $3 billion due to an unfavourable aircraft route. This is not included in the damage caused by interference with their schedule. The team's training ban has led to a recent intervention in the profession at the time of the operation and therefore to increase the pressures on the staff as a result. Today, the tourist season is at its height, but tourism is relying on safe and easy transport to the country. This summer's third summer is the summer of a combination of air traffic disorders due to strike operations. Based on information provided by the tourism organisation, this situation is becoming a negative influence on tourism traders to Iceland. This has led tourists to return to the hotels they stayed on and often come to closed doors where the hotels are booked at that time. The rush hour is fully booked, and there is a danger that these problems will continue to increase. In view of this, it is clear that there is a high level of public interest for postponing social strike operations against Istavia. Therefore, the terms of the II Parliament are considered necessary to ensure the particular interests and to cut off the knot that is present in the discussion. The activities of the industry and the BSBA are members of a so-called SALKK Framework Convention. According to this, the employment organisation commits itself to carry out the labour policy set out there. Therefore, have a contract bid for the Association of the Employment Organization based on that particular frame. It is evident that unions will react and demand a pay raise if the employment community exceeds the SALEK Convention, which would threaten the economic stability that has been won in recent years by a pay-exploited and inflation. V.E.G. President. This bill is beginning to give negotiaters a chance to resolve their differences by June 24 or by the time the gradade is taken into court. The Court shall appoint three representatives, one nominees of Iceland's Supreme Court, one of the European Commission of Flights and one of the Professional Associations. The decision shall take into account collective labour agreements, which have been made in a general labour market in the past lost areas as appropriate, general development of dress products and economic stability. To promote an increased agreement on the decision of a formality, the bill suggests that the employee and employer's representatives represent each representative in the formality. Moreover, their neutrality and expertise are required. I hope this will lead to reconciliation with the results of a sentence, if it comes to him, and peace can be established about the working conditions of this class. V.E.G. President. I've been tracking this bill. So I suggest that after this discussion, there be references to 2 Corinthians. and appropriate treatment. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u4	A respectable president. I'm not going to ask questions in a material way. I'm going to ask them why they have to come in so late. They announce a meeting at 3:00 a.m., and we'll have the bill in our hands when the clock is seven minutes short for three. How did we, the council, really have no way of reading through this nine - page bill and trying to figure it out before they realized it? Start? Is it not minimal that you have time to study the subject of the bill before 1. That's what's going on? I'm asking the highest. Minister: How did it come about that the matter could not be given only before or that it could be committed to the council so that we could at least be prepared? It's not a big deal. The civil rights of the air traffic manager are being passed, who are being able to perform a strike. I think it's worth it to give us senators some time to slip through the bill. Seven minutes is simply not enough for a nine-page bill, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u5	A respectable president. I am fully aware that members of the Parliament feel that the time is short, all the distractions of this bill is short, but a government conference was held on account of this just before noon. I met with the highest. While the prime minister is in position to explain this matter, of course not to read it carefully at that meeting, he explained the main issues of the matter and the proposed laws. I know that the members of the council tried within this short period of time to do all they could to speed up the paperwork. I can agree with that with what. A senator that it is always better that there is more time than memory to review unique matters. But I think, in these situations, when such measures are being taken, it often takes time to prepare, and it is important that we have the opportunity to discuss the matter in a particular committee, the legal committee, and continue in the councilroom.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u6	A respectable president. I have to tell you, that line of work has just become annoying that we're getting contract papers in the last minute forever. It's been forced through the council without you reading through it. I don't like such work, especially when we're talking about something as important as we do right now. I don't know how much it would have had to do with the development of this case to postpone a meeting for half an hour, an hour, simply to cross the bill, to begin with. Seven minutes is simply not enough. It is most annoying to have to work indefinitely in such circumstances. 20, 30, 40 minutes, an hour, it would have been better already. They have to be distributed on short notice so you can sit under 1st. and have a certain view of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u7	V.E.G. President. I want to reiterate what I said above: Of course, it is now that the church treatment is under way. After this discussion, the situation can be addressed to the environment and transport committee and then returned to the 2nd. Parliamentary languages are different, and this matter certainly comes quickly into the council, but I don't think it will prevent the members from studying and taking sides with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u8	A respectable president. It's always a pleasure to see the faces of members of Congress, but in this case, you would have expected a little more time without it. I have to say, I feel that I have developed the habit of solving big business in this way. I don't remember it being so repeated in the past that people would always be calling the council when conversation broke down. I'd like to ask because I haven't had much time to study the situation with a pilot. I understand that the issues here at stake will be solved only with overtime but that there are no overtime duties at commercial air traffic stations. How do the Ministers and the Government intend to arrange for the head of the air traffic in order to cover overtime? Is not putting things in much more serious and larger knots than they already are? And is it not likely that humans will require those who have sought the responsibility of being a member of the government that they reach their conclusions without putting a law on one class after another and always try to resolve matters by convening together? I don't think it's too much to ask if you simply try to cope with it. I fear, because of what I've studied in this matter in half an hour, that it's here being fixed a leak, as someone put it, by throwing a grenade into the roof. Of course, the roof disappears. But then they have no roof over their heads. So I'm really thinking about these tactics. Of course you'll look at it the way it happens, but I'm wondering how the government is going to secure overtime.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u9	The president wants to state that prior to a misunderstanding, the president did not realize that more members of Congress than two had requested to give an answer to a speech at the highest level. Minister of state. Thus, a talk period will not be reduced to a minute in later traffic but may be given an opportunity to do so. Senators can speak their full dose in those answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u10	V.E.G. President. This is a dispute between the work community and the company of the Icelandic air traffic controller. There is no room for the State's involvement in this dispute. I'm sure a senator knows. Hv. A senator said that governments were not allowed to resolve disputes, but this is the case with the issue. Governments have the responsibility to ensure that public interests are respected. Government evaluations, as well as ours, have begun to have such an effect that it will no longer be prepared. However, it is expected in the bill, and it is very important to me that people around me have time to sit down and try hard to reach contracts. If it doesn't work, then it's going to happen. On the contrary, if governments let this issue pass at this point, the government would be neglecting its obligation to watch out for public interests. It is in the light of what this bill is presented. Then there's what I'm sure, of course, that the Icelandic pilot's Féggi will do what he's done. Because of the scene. There is no reason for me to give myself anything else here in this chair, and I have no faith in anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u11	A respectable president. Of course, the government has made herself party to this issue by intervening. As I said before, there is a general market deal, and that's why I'm interested in knowing how the government is going to get men to take this overtime job; this is actually trying to prevent the overwork ban that has been going on, if I get it right. How should you try to get men to take the overtime needed to cover the duties involved? Will they do so by law? Is that normal?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u12	I reiterate what I said in the previous answer to this point, but I must draw the attention again. A senator of the duties of the government, which is to maintain order in the country, and to ensure that public interests are respected. Sometimes the situation may be that the State has to do things that aren't necessarily what people want to do, but it must be in the eyes of the whole U.S.A. that the intervention of such conflicts is always a means of emergency. This is not something that any human does with a light mind. It must be understood that this is true. This is one of the things on the state that come up in these situations. If the Kingdom does not respond, it is time to ask, " Is the Kingdom neglecting its duties? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u13	A respectable president. As we have seen here, it has become the burden of this government to exercise the law of a controversy; such a frequency has never been seen in the republican age as in this term. I don't think it's going to be a matter of paying the price of the government's constant plagiarism in this way. Of course, such actions cause a disturbance of the third party, to which the game is designed to create pressure. But first, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Did Ministers introduce themselves to the situation in the jugular dispute in a way that allowed her to meet with representatives of the National Association of Employment, and with representatives of the Icelandic Air Control Association? Is the minister aware of exactly what is involved? And have both parties been given full access to rationalizing before a decision was made to administer a legislation to the position of the controversies? Second, I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, because it refers to history, as well as to a case review, repeated in unambiguous public interest; but it is weighed here by a huge and important fundamental principle, i.e. The pricing right in the face of the public interest: What was the result of this conflict of interest? What was the point of the highest attitude? The minister and the government in this regard as a basis for violating the strike rights by legal decrees?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u14	V.E.G. President. Well, first of all, you're right about what you're doing. It is a very sensitive balance when it is decided to enter into such controversy. It is also equally true that when it comes to quarreling, each party must carefully step to the ground. I don't think there is any difference. I don't think so. In the State Department, there were conferences yesterday. I wasn't in those meetings myself. The head of the State Department, along with the members of the Ministry of finance, were found; first, by the Icelandic air traffic manager's partner, and then by the Association of Employment. Of course, I received very clear information about that meeting. Since then, we've been in touch with Istavia on account of these matters. We've also watched very closely the circumstances in which we live in the air above us and what the consequences would be if this were to continue. Of course, when deciding whether or when such material is involved, there is always an assessment of what the right thing to do. Then, of course, the viewpoints are weighed, how far things can go. Hv. A senator correctly mentioned that these measures are intended to bite. However, if they are beginning to bite in a way that severely disrupts the current public interests, then there is a reason for government intervention. That's what happened, and this is our conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u15	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answers. There is evidence that the members met with the Ministry and the Ministry officials at a meeting at the highest level. A minister was not present. Therefore, I would like to ask the minister if she believes that all her questions have been answered by not being self-involved at a meeting of debates involving not only legal evaluations, economic assessments, public interest assessments in the interests of the strike court but, above all, political and political responsibilities. Ministers who serve as Minister of the Interior bring this matter under consideration at the General Assembly. Then I want to ask the highest. Ministers to respond to the speculation when they feel that this is so much of a public interest that there is considerable impact and considerable damage at stake. Then I'd like to ask her what this great effect is about. Is it not true that the effect lies primarily in delay? Are we not primarily talking about delay? Are we talking about damage that is unbearable, which is irrefutable? And how's the highest possible. Ministers respond to my opinion that it is most dangerous to intervene in the way suggested and to be impatient?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-129.u16	V.E.G. President. Of course, it's my responsibility to submit this bill. I wouldn't have suggested it, nor would I have stood here and talked about it unless I thought I knew it was right to do it; otherwise I wouldn't have submitted the bill. In the end, it must always be an assessment of the person who gives the issue whether such a course is to be taken. That's what's been done. That's what I've considered myself to be. It's my conclusion. I have to admit, I'm only beginning to forget what's wrong. A senator said. Significant and serious interests - of course, we are not here discussing a class of people's lives, such as those we know from the medical system. There have been mention of working conflicts during this term and many of these. However, issues in other professions can have such an effect on public interest; they can be many forms, that there is a reason to intervene. Therefore, the evaluation must always be complete. It's very hard to take one part out and just look at it. This is in the light of a comprehensive assessment made by this conclusion. I'd like to reiterate it here at the Senate that it's not easy for me or anyone else to make such a matter, but sometimes it's just that such a thing needs to be done.
