ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u1	A respectable president. I'll come up here, you might say, in a series of queries, but I've talked to the highest. Strategies and social security minister on this same matter which turned them to a report made on this subject, i.e. violence in broad context, against disabled women. It presented quite striking and unpleasant results, but they also provided important information for us that we can then cooperate with in order to safeguard the right and the health of these groups. I also asked you a question to the highest level. The local minister of many disabled individuals who had been sexually involved and passed through the system of justice, but in that written answer, I thank you for the fact that these groups had not been specifically held, so there was no information about the number or extent of such offenses against this group. In fact, the first team of the inquiry has been answered, but I think it's important that you put your arm around it. In that answer, starting on December 2, sexual abuses against disabled people are specifically recorded. Is it well, and should be welcomed. I'm asking the highest, too. A minister may consider starting a specific investigation of the extent of such violations and then back in time. Many disabled people have taken steps to describe what kind of violence they have experienced because of the situation they are in as disabled persons in our community. It is our duty to protect the groups that often cannot pass on even the wrongs that have been committed to them. We must hold these people tight. When sexual immorality occurs, it must be handled well, and then there must be a special knowledge within the system of things. So I ask the highest. A minister may consider putting together a special team to hold on to such matters. Is such a team perhaps in preparation for the Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u2	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for putting this delicate matter on the agenda in this question period. I'm going to try to answer the questions as well as the questions. A senator pointed to me in this regard. First, the question is, Is there a central issue of sexual offenses, allegedly and judged against disabled persons? Like what? This is a series of information that is being presented. If we look at the information we received from the governor and introduced ourselves to a state attorney, we will not be the object of a sexual offense against disabled persons. However, as we now know from the State Attorney's office, it has been observed that according to the request of the office of the office, the registration of the police file has been changed so that the charge of rape can now be handled against disabled persons who are suffering from severe mental illness or mental disability, as 2 mgr. 194. gr. a general penal law. I think it's a great improvement. According to the government prosecutor's office, this form was recorded at the end of the year, December 2, so it is only right to go. There is no special registration of sexual offenses other than rapes to spiritually disabled individuals, and there is no specific record of sexual abuse against physically disabled individuals. It also requires that there be some definitions that need to be considered when talking about those who are disabled. Enrollment of the police file should state that it has no law on it. 90/1996 and its regulations for the treatment of police identity data. Ask whether all sexual abuses should be recorded against disabled persons, especially in all cases. It should be noted that they cannot be clearly recorded, including Because, as I said before, the definition of disability is not always simple. Also, it may be wondered whether it is right to record this rather than violations against other groups if disability does not have legal or criminal significance. Here we have come a little further into this discussion. Without any conclusions in this regard, this is considered a matter of opinion. Break on 2 mg. 194. gr. general penalties are the most common matters, so there is no doubt in my mind that this registration is a great improvement. Whether, according to the Minister's opinion, a special investigation of such offenses would be considered. I think this case is very important, I've declared it, and I'm happy to hear all this discussion about what's important. I'd especially like to mention that in the Supreme Declaration of Cooperation. Social and housing minister, Minister of Ministers and Ministers of Education and Culture on the actions against violence and the consequences of this on December 18, 2014, reports that the Ministers and the Ministry agree to counteract violence in the Icelandic community and break down its effects. The declaration says that there should be a national consultation between social services, child - welfare, education systems, health systems, police, and prosecution to promote measures against every kind of violence. The campaign is designed primarily to involve violence on children, violence in close relationships, sexual, mental, and physical violence and violence to disabled people and other vulnerable groups. In part, we also had this discussion recently when talking about changes in general penal law on violence in close relationships. The Minister's declaration emphasizes the development of regional consultations, which include a procedure to improve the prevention and investigation of violence, and particularly with regard to child abuse and disabled people. Following this proclamation, a commission group was appointed with a representative of the aforementioned minister, who has the responsibility of preparing a four - year strategy to counteract violence in the community. Is that cooperation result from the Ministry of Health and the work it does well? Last week, 100 people had a meeting with all those involved in an act of violence and soon have an operation. I believe it is right to await the conclusions of the control team and see what action it must take. The government will then have to evaluate the suggestions and implement the most likely measures to produce the best results in dealing with this true evil as any form of violence.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u3	A respectable president. Thank you for this very important discussion. I just wanted to remind you of the importance of the right to independent life, including with personal help from a user. Organizations may be critical, or it is a challenge to have enough control of institutions or households. Of course, it is always meant to be the project. One of the advantages of MPA, which may be more expensive when all is listed together, I don't know, is that there a disabled person has more control over his own life and chooses who will help the individual. In view of the seriousness of these fractions that we have been looking up on, I feel that it is worth it, though it costs more. I feel tired of the discussions about NPA at all costs and money, since the cost of the other is so much that we shouldn't let it go away. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u4	V.E.G. President. In the last few weeks, we've been through quite a number of queries and answers that are subject to sexual violence against disabled people. This is an enormously important debate, and I think it is very important to keep tight in mind the registrations, especially at first because people are generally weaker in the community. This group is more vulnerable to violence than others. I've got some answers from the counsellors I've been asking for. There is a wide variety of knowledge about these matters. I think it's really important for us to do something about this, to take it together. I wonder if it should be in the form of a report, at least that we take up this information now that all these answers have arrived, and as members of our council, we hold this united. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u5	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I am also glad that there is some step forward in trying to improve my arm. It will be interesting to see what comes out of this control group. Although the group of disabled persons is enormously large and different, and that is the name for a very diverse group of individuals, I want to make the most of it. A minister to avoid letting the problem define how the group looks to delay us or prevent us from collecting important information. This information can be collected without necessarily personal distinction. I believe in, and know that the Minister agrees with me on that, that information is the basis for us to engage in serious operations and make informed decisions afterwards. Like what? paritaprevir Brynhildur's wife's Pétursdóttir mentioned earlier may have the possibility that the power for the individual to receive a user - controlled personal service may make his place within the community stronger. Consequently, violence should be minimized, but we do not know. There is something that would be of great interest to us too. To make this conscious decision, we need this information, and I think we're taking the right step here. There is a specific definition of both every form of violence and any group at the highest level. A minister mentioned earlier, which should be kept around. That's a good start. Then let us take the next steps, expand our ranks, also increase forms of violence, and get more detailed information so that, first of all, we can protect this group better from violent people, and then return to the right response when it comes to violence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u6	A respectable president. I couldn't agree with that. A senator's appreciation of information is late overrated in any group of languages. That's right. That's right. We are taking certain steps, and of course we need to take further steps. I also cut it as a dog. Þóra About the information that has been coming to us in particular for the past few weeks, the Steinra Yearsydóttir said that this has been under discussion in the form of a public inquiry to the highest level. Social and housing minister and we've brought some legal bills, as mentioned earlier. We're waiting for the result of the control team. That was a plan designed for four years. It is curious, however, to know which way that work will go. It may be interesting for the council to have that discussion. I feel that in any way, with a report or a different one, it is possible for me to look at the different factors that are under the same hat. We're talking about the rights of disabled people, and I'd also like to name them a huge, delicate group of subjects when we're talking about violence in close relationships. I take along from here this discussion that I have enjoyed in a positive way. Sometimes you want to do things more quickly, but it is also important that what you do is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u7	Mr. President. The police's weapon possession has been a significant factor in the recent losses at the General Assembly. V.E.G. The minister answered my inquiry last year on the police arms market saying that the police had 590 guns and had been buying 145 firearms since 2004, and this was primarily related to the undefined administration of the Norwegian to police or national security. However, this discussion has been raised since then, i.e. how we want to see the police develop in Iceland. It has been observed in the highest range. Minister to believe that the principle applies to the law that the police are unarmed in their daily activities. However, we have noted that there seems to be quite a difference in views about how much the police are running out of weapons and what rules are involved. I have given a lot of emphasis on the fact that the debate is transparent, that everyone is aware of the rules of the treatment of firearms when it comes to the police and is decided that the arms of the police base it on evidence and that there is a real need for such weapons. It has been, I think, the pride of many Icelanders that the police are generally unarmed in their daily activities, that weapons are not visible. I always find it scary when you see heavy - armed police officers out on the streets. It has been a matter of pride, and you may also ask yourself, " What use does weapons have to serve when it comes to police work? ' Happily, though there are many crimes, we have lived here in a crime - stricken country. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of what circumstances would be needed to ensure that police officers are authorized to resort to firearms when these weapons are decided to be used in police vehicles. This is a discussion that took place in the past winter. This is a request from November for weapons to be available in police vehicles. But I would like to ask, " What rules do we have to take to them, who would consider the situation and the home, or refuse the use of firearms? ' Is the use of firearms needed, or is there a clear set of rules on what situation it is, and then who needs to agree? I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister to see if she can tell us how many cases have occurred in police work in the past ten years that meet the requirements for using firearms and what kind of cases that are. I also ask how the surveillance will be performed by police firearms and the incident at the scene where firearms are being used.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u8	V.E.G. President. I'd like to begin by saying that it's very important that there's transparency in these matters and that we've worked at the Ministry to increase it because that's the basis for a solid state between society and all of us here, and then the police in her very important profession. But then I wind in answering the questions why. Senator, I hope that I can do this within the hour, then the Ministry obtained from the State Marshal's inquiry. It was asked: "Who needs the circumstances to meet the conditions that police are allowed to resort to firearms that have been decided to become available in police cars? " - And then I'd like to state, as stated in restricted police vehicles, which is very important. I think the rules have been interpreted very narrow. Enforcement to use firearms at 30 p.m. is valid. Rules on the use of power tools and weapons from February 22, 1999, published last year, No. 256/2015, of the Minister. That rule should be interpreted in the light of Article 14. Police law states that police must never go further in the use of power than is needed at any one time. The same rules apply to police authority requirements to resort to firearms whether weapons are stored at a police station or in these designated police vehicles. For 30th. The above principles are the conditions to be met which are: First of all. When it is felt that an existing project requires it or circumstances, it is necessary that an armed weapon be considered necessary, such as if a policeman is expected to deal with a man who has reason to believe that there is a weapon or other deadly weapon is armed and likely to be used for firearms or other lethal weapons. Second of all. When a state police officer has approved or ordered that weapons be carried out by police officers to handle specific tasks or situations, such as security or police special forces. The chief of police is authorized in consultation with the State Marshal to order the use of arms, which applies for a certain time. There is no time limit for this authority in the rules, but it is determined by the decision that police are armed. In the event of an emergency, the local chief police officer may order that a police officer be armed. When a mission requires arms, at least two police officers should be armed at one time, but police officers must act alone only in case of emergency. Second, ask who the circumstances and homes are, or reject the use of firearms based on incidents, and how the protocols are involved. According to 30 st. This particular principle is the chief of police who commands the use of firearms by police. The local officer may, as mentioned earlier, make this decision in an emergency situation, considering an event that may involve life. Weapons are always stored in locked Hilts, whether in the police station or in these restricted police vehicles. The use of weapons and the procedure set out in the above arms rules for preservation is detailed. Third, it is asked how many cases have taken place in police work during the past ten years that meet the requirements for using firearms and how they present themselves. Available data on the number of cases in the police responsible for the use of firearms and for the general police applies only to the period between 2011 and today, and must therefore be based on this period here. During the season, the general police throughout the world have been armed with projects, an incident received by the police. It should be noted that more than one police officer or police force may be armed for the same issue, such as the public police and the Special Forces, all of which count to the total number of cases. It is a project that was assessed in nature that it would be necessary for armed policemen to be either due to information that, in the case of those cases, armed men were traveling or protected, which must be kept in mind to be included in these numbers. The U.S. Marshal's Special Force has between January 1, 2011 and December 18, 2015, 393 times as a result of projects and announcements received by the police. The unit operates under Regulation 774/1998 on the Governor's Special Forces and is the only police force in the country that always has a firearm available. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for these answers because this is one of our interests, i.e. Weapons in public police cars. It was interesting to hear those exact numbers. They take over both the Special Forces and the general police, and it may be awkward not to have these things cut apart because we're looking for them a little bit. I received detailed answers to questions about weapons that I offered to a minister. I would like to ask: There are 18 cars already armed with weapons. Is there any reason to replace the cars or to add, in fact, the extra number of cars in the arms with 18 cars already? Then the answer is made, and I would like to ask the minister about the position, that weapons are needed to achieve success through negotiation techniques. [[The president calls.]] It's a little hard for me to agree that it can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u10	A respectable president. I think it's right to correct this great inquiry and a fine discussion that when it comes to increasing the authority of the police, whether in the form of power or arms power or whatever, we have to bear in mind that we need in our society, although little, especially because of the small, the support and counterweightness of power. That is why it is important for me to be discussed and thanked for the discussion taking place here. But again and again the urgent need to monitor the police. I think all the emphasis on these matters should be to bring them into order before we consider any further evidence either to arms or whatever. To say that, I thank you very much. A minister for the answers and again for opening up these principles of force that were then secret because this has made the discussion much easier.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u11	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. These are a number of cases at the highest level. Minister mentioned, i.e. since 2011, and of course the importance of keeping accounting in practice over those cases that meet the needs for the application of firearms so that we have the most data and the most available in the discussion. There are a number of cases. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of whether she knows or is able to gain data on what these 43 cases have come up, the cases that meet the requirements for the use of firearms by the public police, and the 393 that she named at the Sheriff's Special Forces, which only attracts other laws, include just some routine surveillance and what we can say, is more out of the standard procedure. What events are unexpected, so to speak? It would be interesting to receive such data, and I bear in mind that it is very important that the discussion be made clear that we have a good view of it. Maybe it should be more part of the council's work, just so I mention it, for example, why. The General and Education Committee to monitor these issues on a regular basis so that the discussion can be so that it takes the full amount of data and information into account. Then I'd like to reiterate my last question, to the highest level. A minister did not have time to answer, the police watch, how it's been used, and the incident at the scene where firearms are being used. What would be interesting and related to what I mentioned before, about access to evidence, is that there are incidents that meet the requirements for the application of firearms. Granted, they are rarely used in these incidents, so it is certainly also of interest for the council to discern when or how often the firearms have been used. I'll mention it here at the end how we can somehow make the coming of the council more orderly than that it is in the form of a single inquiry when the members of Congress think of it, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u12	V.E.G. President. Now I want to answer the question that I didn't have time to answer earlier. Fourth, how to monitor the use of firearms by police and the incident at the scene where firearms are being used? It is written when weapons are taken from weapons tanks and why. There's been an incident where police are armed with records. The district attorney conducts a case investigation on the basis of 1st. Thirty-five. Police law, if necessary, where police use firearms. It should be noted that the Ministry's work is now being conducted on a review of law and regulations on police surveillance, and that is a serious problem. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son came in earlier, and let him agree that it is necessary for this to continue. I don't have a heart attack on the numbers I mentioned in my answer. As I said before, we don't have numbers at first, except for this long way back in time. I feel that there is good evidence in these matters, but in some cases it may be confidential. However, the evidence has at least as a basis for proper decisions and such. I can ask if there's any further information on this. I'd also like to mention and reiterate here what I said in my previous reply that we at the Ministry believe in these police vehicles, which may have been the root of this inquiry and have been a bit for discussion recently, that the views have been quite clear on our part that the rules that humans have the opportunity to introduce themselves and are urgent, are clear on the outer limits. [[The president calls.]] It's not that they can be stretched, so they need to be interpreted narrowly. That's a lot of police cars I'm looking at, Lieutenant. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u13	A respectable president. What will the secretary of finance do to reduce tax fraud in Iceland? That question is asked many times after the chairman of a legal committee has informed us that the amount of tax fraud in Iceland may be about 80 billion dollars. So I have a few queries to the highest level. Minister. First, does he believe that spending more money on tax control and tax research will result in an improvement in tax returns and less tax evasion? Second of all. Does he have research, or the office on these matters, that shows that tax control and tax research are making much more money than is spent in the research? I simply ask: " Is it worth putting more money on hard - pressed taxes? Third, please. What does the minister believe that the 80 billion fund can be achieved if people strive to use all the means that can be used? Fourth, and that may be the most important question: What will the secretary of finance do in order to increase and promote control and research on tax frauds but also to prevent them? Of course, we can make many changes, both in regulations and in laws, shut down various loopholes and ways for humans to cheat on taxes and to obtain at least some part of this vast financial wealth.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u14	Mr. President. First of all, if additional tax-improvement donations will be returned to a better tax system, I believe we have done the right thing by maintaining increased tax control funds in recent years. It is difficult to say in advance and precisely how much it produces in direct collections. I'm going to trace some of the views on these subjects. In this country, the legal responses to the tax authorities have been made by the general tax control of the taxpayer and the taxpayer. The tax control of the head of state tax includes a field check, where the operators are visited by a specific choice, but also in an analysis of types of general taxation and legalities. Tax research is being done on the custody of the tax investigator in which the cases tend to originate from the IRS but there is also an investigation of its own initiative. Of these, repetitive decisions often bring back in time as the head of the head of the tax and also a legal treatment. Recent examples in this area include funding for the head of the tax to purchase tax from abroad, where there was evidence that tax divorce was not properly paid by local taxpayers. With regard to a large number of operators in a short period of time, it gives them the opportunity to make a total correction in a short period of time. The usual post-viewation IRS, followed by tax analysis, includes a number of persons with a much more time-consuming procedure. It may be safely said that the work of each employee improves taxation and therefore plays a key role in paying taxes, thus preventing failures to pay taxes with the right direction. Whether research responds to the amount of money spent on an IRS account is asked. But this is not to distribute any tests I can refer to. However, the term taxation is very frequently discussed internationally, i.e. The difference between what is truly collected by taxes and what should be returned if everyone deserves the taxes they owe. In part, such a version has been at the hands of the International Cash Fund and the European Union. This refers to the 80 billion people who originate with the governor of the tax. That's where we're actually talking about this taxation pump. But according to our most skilled experts, it is difficult to determine how much this can be explained and then collected by these billions. They share about 49 billion in income tax returns from individuals and companies, which, as it were, about 50 billion in income tax, 11 billion in insurance, and over 20 billion in merit taxation. An increase in manpower, a intensified tax control, and an increase in tax research is sure to bring better tax returns. However, postnatal application has been shown to be fragile in terms of collecting. The more years of reevaluation, the more likely the tax charge will be lost. What can be done to cope? We have given much support to the government tax manager in the emphasis he has presented to us. There are other options to stop those who do not want or who do not intend to comply with the rules. Increased cooperation between institutions, both within and between countries, is emphasized. We have a recent example of international contracts that I have signed for information exchange. Increased emphasis will be placed on the periodic monitoring and prevention, while there will also be a systematic review of the target tax returns. A better match between current legislation, such as if a job is stopped it will automatically include a closure of a valuable tax number. There is a need to complete a defined lower level of observation and to allow tax monitoring to be used in the same way as tax analysis. As with this list, there are some options that the system in our system usually does, i.e. People who do IRS and IRS research. We have in my department very supportive, including and increase of money, that it may continue in this course. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I'd like to mention that we have to make rules so that it's not easy or even an incentive to run away. [[The president calls.]] Recent examples of these changes in reimbursement are due to construction on their own housing. It seems that the change we recently made there was not a good experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u15	A respectable president. I think it's a matter of eternity. I had a special discussion with the highest. Secretary of finance on tax fraud in 2013/2014. We also seem to be forbidden to prevent social security, there is also something that we discuss over and over again without anything happening; I know that for some reason it is not at the highest custody. Secretary of finance. I don't feel that governments are going to come up with a much clearer policy: tax fraud is destructive. We will do all we can to root them out. Everything. I lived in Denmark for years. There was quite another charge against tax fraud. The people worked very hard, and nobody wanted to get involved with the tax in Denmark. I feel like it's not only from the Icelandic government but from now on. Much clearer policy, more decisive, and more determined to speak clearly and say, "We're not going to tolerate this. For example, what are humans doing printing 10,000K? - A bill? [[The president calls.]] That is one example of confusion. Why don't we switch to electronic business? I want to see a much clearer course from the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u16	Madam President. I don't think there's a doubt in the ocean that an investment in tax control and tax control is a good investment. But she is more than that, she is a matter of righteousness, as mentioned earlier, to those who pay their due, and, of course, believing that others do not. I'd like to stress that I believe that joint visits between the labour market partners and the tax at the workplace have given us a lot of results. It follows that it is practical to try to solve at once what can then be handled, i.e. Treaty of contractual items, correct registration, correct tax resolution, value tax support, and nonfictions, contractors, or artificial contractors to create an account. I believe that effort should be made to develop and develop big - scale mutual visits at work. And I also remind myself of the improvements that legislation can provide in these areas. I also mention social security, to the highest level. A minister is now trying to handle it with a secretary of business, and that we establish, for example, the rules of a thin self - interest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is all part of strengthening the right taximament in the land. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u17	President. Yeah, it's clear that this huge tax fraud. is a big and big problem in our society. Then there's this number, 80 or 83 billion, the government tax manager said it's obvious that everything would never be collected. But, you know, there's still plenty left. Although it was only half that collected, it is full, and if 2/3 collected it would be a lot. I use this opportunity to encourage the Minister in these activities. Like what? paritaprevir St Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's irony said that there is a problem with tax fraud. But first and last, I'd like to encourage the Minister to revere tax control and tax returns whenever possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u18	A respectable president. Did I understand the minister of finance correctly? Is it so that recent legal changes have been returned to tax control and tax fraud? Is it so that the changes in reimbursement and valuation tax from our own housing have contributed to the table and led to an increase in black employment? Show remunerations after the fall from 100% reimbursement to 60% that these types of projects will be less effective? I'll ask the Minister to get better into it. I thank him otherwise for the answers, but I ask, " Am I working according to a comprehensive plan for working against tax fraud? ' Has the Ministry made it necessary for all the agencies involved and the ministry to operate according to one general plan to achieve the best results for this important project? A minister correctly mentioned that rules are of great importance here. Has he had a summary of the rules that can be added and handled in order to reduce tax evasion? Is there such an overview for a respectable minister? And most important, since the Minister of Nature is going to contribute one bill to the budget during this election period before the next General election: Is the Minister planning to contribute more money for tax control and tax research for the next financial year to be considered today?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u19	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion. Here is a very important matter. It's true what's happened, and I went over. That's a lot of money. The taxation rate, 80 billion, we all know what it would be in the context of government. Huge sums of money. It is also true. One senator says that it is important for a clear line to come from the government to deal harshly with tax fraud. There I deeply agree with the senator that we need to set up the regulations and conduct of the IRS so that we will not suffer people from their civil obligation to pay taxes and duties like everyone else and thereby participate in the collective cost of running this community. How will this be most achieved? I have not received any information that we have a far greater problem than others. In some ways, the problem here is less extensive than in many other places. Yet, it is not pleasant to see the great excerpts, which are for example because of black employment, as these have only been discussed. I'm going to use the second half minute I have here again to review the example of remuneration of a valuable tax on repairs or improvements in my own housing. Here we have said: People are expected to receive a clear message that tax fraud will not be tolerated. On the other hand, when we reduce the amount of money from 100% to 60%, we see a significant change in behavior. Then the question is: Do we need to send a clearer message that we are not going to feel that these taxes are not being returned or that we should arrange the rules so that people can report what has happened at the workplace, i.e. in the person's home? [[The president calls.]] The message we receive from the system is, in fact, that it's less about paying credit reports after we reduced the payment from 100 to 60%.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u20	Madam President. I'd like to use this opportunity here to ask the highest. Social and housing minister on the work of a future birth plan group. This was shown in December 2014 at the highest. A minister would have appointed a group of men to care for the future affairs. I've tried to keep track of reports of the group, and there's some reports that he's working on. But he hasn't finished his work, so I noticed. Now budgets for 2016 have been adopted, including suggestions from the field. The members of the board of directors of changes in the birth ordinary funds for an increase in the fund. They weren't approved, and I want to ask the highest. A minister will see if there are any changes in the order of observation during the current term and what it will involve, whether we can expect the results of this group in the near future and whether the highest. A minister can inform us if any change is planned whether it will contribute to the extension of the ordinary or to the elevation of the roof or other changes in the arrangement. The reason I ask is that the birth of a stock was - like everything else in public business - cut down when the government almost hit the head in the fall of 2008. We know that this treasure is of utmost importance to the very future of the country in the fullest sense, that it is well over. It is my opinion that starting up the fund should have been one of the priorities. I would have chosen to go to construction on the birth stocks rather than the tax reductions that the current government has attacked. There's a big difference. At least I think I know that the highest. Ministers agree with me on the importance of this budget setting priorities. But it's a question of how it's going to be done, if it's the highest. A minister has developed a view that the priority is to extend the ore or to raise the roof, or both. It would be interesting to know here. The reason I ask is that I think it's very important that we start looking for building the fund. We are told that economic prospects are in such a way that we should allow ourselves to look for material building. It has been agreed with a synonym that states and societies should cooperate to bridge gaps between maternity school and prenatal school. An important part of it is to extend the orc. We would also be following in the footsteps of our neighbors, most of whom have gone up for at least a year. It's nine months here. It would be good to see the change in this fund during this terms and to see that the work force is due in the near future so that it is time to discuss its suggestions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u21	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir has directed to me a verbal request for a future birth oorexic group and when it is expected that the staff would present their findings to me. When a team on the future legislature was established at the time, his work was not set aside as timelines. However, I expect the group to offer me their suggestions soon, since the chairman of the group has informed me that work is in the final stages of the work and that the group will soon complete its work. At the order of the group, I thought it was especially important that the work be carried on by the workers, but they are very responsible for the delivery process that had been established at the time. I expect the results of the group will be made to change the current birthworm system for the benefit of parents. It has also been made clear, not only from me but also from the minister of finance, about the importance of the restoration of the birthworm system and the beauty of it. I myself and the government have considered how to begin the restoration by raising the so - called roof into the birthworm system. I've been a spokesman for continuing to ensure that the goals of the law on birth and parentorof will be met best but under the law, their primary objective is to ensure a child's presence with both parents and to enable both men and women to coordinate family and professional life. In order to reach this goal, it is urgent to help prevent any interference in household income from occurring when parents take up their maternity vacation work to care for their children. We've seen that lowering the roof of the system, increasing the declines, has led to less delivery of males and has also been shown to have been less experienced by men who have not been pregnant. Hence, it seems that the impairment is more important, and the committee has been considering this and what this tells us. I also agree with what a senator said, and it has been the second emphasis, that the government continues to ensure a bond between parents'birth certificate and the day - to - day care strategy available when parents leave their babies. However, although we have taken certain steps during the chosen period to restore the birthworm system, it became evident that there was no full agreement as to whether or not to extend the ore or to watch to rebuild and even increase the revenue criteria. That's what the Outfit is doing. I expect to get his suggestions at the next time, as I said.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u22	Madam President. I suppose it is appropriate that I merely get involved in this discussion as the first member of the council who took a birthport as a father and had a right in two weeks, that was all. I am deeply concerned about the situation and the long stops that have taken place in the development of the birthworm system again. The last government had established a plan for several years on this subject, on both the roofs and the extensions of the ordinary, so that he understood from the birth reserve that he was in good position to live up to that plan. The current government made it one of its first jobs to halve the income stock from 1.2 percent of the insurance company to 0.6. They're walking on their own money. The pressure is to lower the insurance fee for the job life insurance section so that political conditions are very difficult with income stock so weak. I think the highest. A social minister has to face the fact that we have not been aiming forward in these areas, if you look at these factors, but rather we are on the road forward with a much weaker income stock and a lower stock of birth orcage that is being stepped on. [[The president calls.]] There's an arm turning this around and getting this back up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u23	Madam President. I would've wanted more clear answers from the top. Minister. What we have here is that the staff will return soon. There is also the possibility that the decisions taken have not been made to strengthen the financial standing of the fund. I quoted the government's tax reduction policy here. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon mentioned the status of the fund's revenue institutions. At the same time, we watch fewer and fewer people take a birthworm. We have nothing to do with extending the orcs and bridgeing it to the highest level. However, a minister declared that she wanted to bridge. The fact is, it is very difficult for young people who have children to bridge this very thing. The extension of the holiday, before the end of the last terms, was a key factor in continuing to have children and being at work. I also agree that it is important to look to the roof. It is a matter of political choice of how we choose to manage society, whether we consider it important to earn money to finance our welfare, or whether we think it is more important to lower the tax that the present government has considered to be more important. It's just a matter of fact. Soon, said the highest. Minister. I'd like to reiterate my question whether she's expecting it, if a group comes forward soon, that we'll see the changes in this terms period; whether or whether the changes will be presented to this council, or whether it will be at the next council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u24	A respectable president. As I told you in my previous reply, I expect to receive the results of the staff in a short time. I understand that men were there at the final stage for some time. But in connection with the meeting laws and interviews that have taken place in a general labour market, I expect that I can get suggestions that can be given. As for the project, it is established that when you reach a good conclusion, and the agreement between the labour market partners, on that priorities, this government, of course, stresses the effort to implement it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u25	Madam President. On January 15, 2014, at the General Assembly, a proposal was adopted to the highest level. A social and housing minister should include stakeholders, experts and political parties in suggesting an integrated community action plan to improve the status of queer people. The committee was to submit proposals to the Minister under the approval of the Council by October 1, 2014. This proposal had already been proposed, at a 142th legislature, but it was adopted to the harmony that has often been established at the General Assembly on the issues of gay people. This has often been the case with different political groups of reforms in behalf of these groups. But that does not mean that there is no need to do better. The reason I made this suggestion back then was that in the spring of 2013 a so-called rainbow card, ILGA-Europe, is a measure of the legal status of gay people in Europe. It was Iceland's tenth place in the 49 countries surveyed. It may have surprised many who felt that we were above that spectrum. Among the findings of the map were respect for meetings, social freedom and expression freedom, legislation, and policy against discrimination, asylum, sexual confirmation, protection against hatred speech, and family tradition. This was also a emphasis on a meeting of '78 this summer, 2013, that it was a reason to comply with the need for legislation on the legal status of individuals with sexual problems. It was important to analyze the experience of the law. In fact, there was a committee that would have to be considered specifically as a human names and national file law; there would have to be better education in the affairs of gay people; defenses against hate speech were incomplete in Icelandic legislation; and more than that, in our administrations, forms of forms of waste, public declarations against the fact that not all people were straight. As noted, this proposal was adopted. It has now been a year, and four months since the committee was appointed to submit, according to the proposal. I just want to, without delaying any longer, to ask a minister what has delayed the work of the Committee, whether it can inform us about why the committee has not completed more than a year after it was due and when we expect the results of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u26	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir has directed to me a verbal inquiry about the affairs of queer people. The committee on the issues of gay people is active, but it is organized to stake stakeholders, experts, and political representatives. The committee met at all times every two weeks, the last meeting was held on November 20, 2015. Hv. A senator asks: "What can be said about the delay in the work? " The Ministry considered a major project that needs to be considered in many aspects, including education, transtransmission laws as well as the improved status of the Intersex individuals, who had recently become public members of the community. As mentioned, the Committee supports indications from the international community of queer people, ILGA, which report the status of gay people every year in Europe. I heard I might have a little different numbers than what I had. A senator, but according to ILGA, Iceland is now in the 12th position of gay people but was in the ninth position in 2014. The reason Iceland falls on the list is because we need to improve the situation of the Intersex individuals and the transministers and the work of the Committee has taken into account. She was supposed to give me suggestions in early October 2014, but the appointment was delayed. As I mentioned, the task is very important, which explains the delays that have taken place in her work. But I hope that, and have obtained information about it, the committee will agree to an integrated implementation program on the improved status of queer people in the community to me in the spring months.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u27	Madam President. I'm happy if the committee comes back this spring. I'm not happy that Iceland moved down on the list from the moment I made this proposal and made the most of it. A minister to encourage and give the committee the help and help she needs to accomplish her work. As I came in here earlier, this is the case, the place of queer people in Iceland, who we've been beating our chests and boasting that we're doing a good job. That's what we're supposed to do. In view of political circumstances, there is good reason for agreeing on these important improvements. I'm the highest. A minister is eager to prioritize the affairs of this committee so that we can discuss this here before, for example, a meeting goes home to our home, and that we see legal improvements in either spring or next assembly. I know that this kind of committee work of my own can naturally get late, but it is important that we put these matters first and not continue to fall down on the list.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-71.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for what she said and also for the initiative she has taken in this matter. I agree that we as a community don't want to see that we're going down this list. We want to see ourselves go up. But I think it is also an important reminder for us that we are, in fact, never finished when it comes to improving the position of minorities, which, indeed, have suffered discrimination and have had to fight for their human rights. Perhaps over a period of time, it was in Icelandic society that it had come. But this shows that there is still plenty of work to be done. The work of this committee is very important to me. I look forward to getting the results because I know men are really picking up. There will be suggestions, which, of course, we will follow to ensure the position of these individuals.
