ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 1076, on terms of contracts with demands and treatment of the broken - down banks, etc., from the Árni Páll Árnason. A letter has also been received from the Home Office where request is made in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 1136, about a meeting, from the Brynhildur of Pétursdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u2	A respectable president. Aggressor has not just given rise to the highest. Rather, the prime minister has come to the point that the workers of a party, the directors of pension funds, and a number of more advanced men than secretary of finance have decided to step aside so that trust can rest on the work and institutions under their oversight. However, the secretary of finance is still seated here, refusing to recognize the impact that the national nation has had for the position of the individual minister and the government. He refuses to interrupt this council and announce an election. Now you might ask: Should financial ministers also go back on the claim that this terms will be cut short for one assembly? Don't you want to vote until sometime in the winter, late October? Will a new assembly be prepared in the fall and go against the proclamations published by Benediktsson Bengoritht himself as soon as he had established the new government now established? No, a respectable president, that's not gonna work. Of course, the book of paint that has been laughed at, from the West to the Southeast, about 75 languages that have not yet been written, will only get in the way of the entire Congress. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's time to get to the top. The minister of finance recognizes that he does not have the confidence to lift water or sell the local property that we have here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u3	A respectable president. We are still in the eye of the tornado. The Panama Documents have left an enormous trail in Icelandic society. There will be more and more. The effects are being taken care of, as we have seen here. V.E.G. a former prime minister has resigned. The names are increasing. Kristján Örn Sigurðsson, director of the joint pension fund, is one. The Kári Arnór Kárason announced that he was about to stop as director of the Stapa Pension Fund and Hrólfur Ölvisson, the head of the Agency, is dead. However, the government of Iceland still gives wealth to the largest project in later years, the mission of how the Allied Council of Iceland will handle this unprecedented case. Secretary of the IRS, Iceland's secretary of the tax, still sits, but he's still in the Panamas. President. This isn't working. [[The president calls.]] This is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u4	A respectable president. There is a measure of concern that the government cannot imagine that the council will continue to work on the many issues that we have been working on in committees, and the government has been performing since the last autumn. It is sometimes said that this is an unworked government because there are so few things, and now it has become too many, that we cannot handle so many cases. The fact is, before the council, there are a healthy number of cases that have come, a case list that has been discussed with the government opposition. He's very normal, there's nothing unusual about him. What we should do is make use of this council, the days ahead, to complete it. We have meetings with the leading anti-reguity complex how we want to work on these issues, then we're meeting with voters, for the election, in the fall. [[The president calls.]] This is the plan, and it doesn't have to be here to discuss it under the supervision of the President over and over again.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u5	A respectable president. Where on earth could the minister of finance, the senior tax collector, and the taxpayer of the country sit on the minister's chair after such an exposé as any who have now been involved in his participation and involvement in taxes? There would be no place in the civilized world, I believe, except perhaps here. This is shocking in view of the fact that we Icelanders have been proud of a rich democratic tradition. We have boasted that at least we are in a stateless country, but it is now seen that the U.S. jet crew has a different game than the public in this country needs to live on. It is an unacceptable, respectable president, to enter Congress, to attend a meeting as if nothing ever happened while the minister of finance with its national and tax records is sitting on the Minister's chair. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] He is to resign, to see his own credit in his resigning, and to be replaced by the government. Now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u6	A respectable president. V.E.G. The secretary of finance claims that he has a plan to vote in the fall, so we do not need to discuss any of these issues with him or her about the President's conference board. The reason we are discussing this is that the government has not been able to support it in any way so that any human can understand why it should continue. She has acknowledged that her authority has come to an end. She's falling away. She's gonna shorten the season. [[Up front.]] She's falling away from power. Is that bullshit? V.E.G. Secretary of finance. Is that bullshit? Isn't she falling away from power? [[Up front.]] What is she doing? Then why is she getting out of the way? Is that a mistake? Was it said in panic that fell in the circle of events? Not at all. She's falling away. We are in the center of a car accident that can and can be seen. The secretary of finance does not seem to realize that there is no credibility, that trust is gone, and that there is nothing in the list of projects that we have seen to justify her continuing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u7	V.E.G. President. This is where we felt like nothing ever happened. After the collapse, more Icelanders saw that a certain group of people in the United States cast money out of the economy to profit at the expense of their fellow citizens. The unveiling of the Panamas revealed that three ministers in the Iceland government were participating in that ugly game. Two of them are still sitting around as if nothing had happened, talking to the others that we should cooperate with them in doing good things. Mr. President. There's no way. It's a matter of elections out here. There's more than just talk of government opposition, there's a complete lack of faith in the leadings of the Independence Party and the leading of the forward party and a demand that we be reassigned to the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u8	A respectable president. That they keep it here at the Ministerial Class that it's okay to start this day, as each other says so much. It tells us that it's all right with humans, because the situation that has been exposed with the Panama Documents is not worth spending the Senate's time taking care of it. [[Take it up in a very special discussion of it.]] They might step aside and say: "Look, it will be chosen right away because this has become a trust break, and we all need a new authority. But they have chosen not to do so. Plan B may now be trying to spend all the strength of the council in making room for such a thing to ever happen again. Is that what they're doing? No, it's just that people have all the committee jobs in slow motion and in some kind of coffeey shit like nothing ever happened. That's because they don't care. That's how they like it. It's here to be revealed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u9	A respectable president. That's the plan, says the highest. Secretary of finance. But that's exactly the problem, there's no plan. The government groups have provided a list of cases that they have not even written yet, a case they know can be solved by any government. [[It's just not right.]] Nothing on that list will stop us from choosing now. The government is full of trust. If she feels that there is any desire in the country that she is in power here and that she will sue them, she must meet the voters. Then the head of the Independence Party should discuss matters with the voters and gain confidence and authority to resolve this list of issues because he has no confidence or authority to issue this list after what has happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u10	Mr. President. If you want to talk about the President's conference board, trust in the secretary of finance, I think people are beyond the program. This was a case of mistrust in the government, and it was destroyed. The government has decided on their own initiative to complete this council, to complete large, important matters, and has announced a vote in the fall. For this, it is a very rich part of the council, and following it is only democratic. If some members of the council would like to bring a mistrustful form to the secretary's office, they should only do so, but they should not be spending a good time in such discussions with other members of the council. In terms of what we would like to do in the affairs of our foreign society, and I was received with a special discussion at the council shortly ago. I have come to understand what the government is doing, and I intend to do about it. Let us also discuss this in the right place during the council. To come up with the program for the President's conference board and to pretend that the government has no intention of handling these matters, minimizing them, has not before announced an election, etc. - There's no stone standing over a stone. [[The president calls.]] Speaking of trust, some of those who came up here looked at themselves a little bit and asked themselves, " How is trust in the political party? ' [[The president calls.]] The fact is, the government groups look forward to meeting with voters to provide voters in this country with the tremendous success that the government has given to its citizens. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u11	Mr. President. I would have thought that the events that we have witnessed in the last few weeks, the tangible testimony we have witnessed about matters that were of course familiar to us from the General's study report, which would now have made a more tangible response. It is still my opinion that it was normal to announce an election in our country. But the government made this proposal, or government, with 37 recognizable votes and decided to make an election in the fall on the grounds that there was a pressing issue to be concluded. Of course, we marvel at the publication of a list of 77 cases of timber products and some other very important matters, which the government considers to be of great interest to people and no one else can solve but that. [[Set up the list: short list.]] Of course they keep the argument not water, but I agree with my name, gi. þm. Julia's Katrín Katrín, when she says: "The council is trying to use time in a practical way to deal with their societies. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u12	A respectable president. The plan was to buy time, to postpone, and to get time to take action that would possibly be followed. [[Up front.]] What we see is a government record that was going to keep everything in place for three years and then bring in a fat campaign law in the fourth year. That is what we see as we cross the stage. We're dealing with a transport plan now and we're talking to a group member. The situation in the national transportation sector is upset. The same is true of the health system. The whole nation is upset about that. The education system, everywhere. But it was to be given for the fourth year and to buy popularity through public funds. What's happening is that the Independence Party is buying the time to try to build up a team because no one else is going to be in charge with them, and no one else is going to be in charge with them. [[Up front.]] Who would think of it when the record record is the way it is? [[The president calls.]] When the prospect of the future is what it is? When respect for the discussion and for the common people in this country are true? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's below all the caves, tops. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u13	Bjart's new debate tradition.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u14	And you're her guardian, Bjarni.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u15	Thank you, Mr. Honorable President. Men can use evasion in this council hall, six members of Congress, to defend a corrupt government, and they do. But we in the administrative memory section, the management position, we have a voice. It is our duty to use that voice, and that is what we intend to do. I express confidence in this government. I express confidence in a private financial minister, and I believe he should see his own dignity in claiming that he and his prime minister should interrupt a council so that those voters may be granted the authority they trust in in in the government of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u16	Mr. President. During these last days, the nation has continued to be inundated with scandals concerning the Panama Documents, which inevitably direct their spears to a sitting counsellor in the government, the highest. Secretary of the budget and the Minister of Homeland, with their approach to the Panamas. Many have been told about their arrival in deportations, because of the complete variety of debino communities and local ministers. But sitting ministers don't think it has anything to do with it. In fact, the executive director of the Agency stands aside. V.E.G. The prime minister says that he was not wrong, but he does not want to bring reproach on the forward party. Of course, the company is the big, remarkable agency that the manager is stepping aside. But the highest. Minister of finance and Minister of Homeland, are they going to bring reproach on the Council, the Lawgiver, by sitting fast? [[The president calls.]] I ask, and I ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is that normal?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u17	A respectable president. Here was a congregation meeting yesterday, in which members of the General Assembly agreed to the program on that day and on the schedule of tomorrow. Then come a group of these fine categories, some of which require that it be taken away and something else done. A respectable president. I'm 2. The Independence Party in the Southwestern District I'm the 3rd. the district. Behind me as a senator stands a large part of the country. The voters who have chosen me for responsibility on behalf of the Party, on behalf of the Independence Party and as a member of my district, are not calling for elections. When the government's post stands for time and time, referring to the nation as a whole as a particular host that supports it as calling after elections, I allow to say that the smaller part does not speak for me, which was the Kosin senator in the south-western district. [[The president calls.]] They choose those who are still behind me as members of the council and my party.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u18	We'll see in elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u19	A respectable president. Because of it. paritaprevir Mr. Ríkharðsdóttir Ragnheiður refers to a meeting of the council groups yesterday, where, according to her words, an agreement was made on the program for a meeting today and tomorrow I would like to say that it was indeed the program for today and tomorrow, as normal as it is, but it is, of course, the president who proposed the program of the council, and he had heard our viewpoints for the decision he faced in making. There they did not talk about canceling or canceling the program program for President's conference board. The chairman's meeting board will be used immediately, and there is very good reason to use the program meeting director now. [[The president calls.]] The highest would be understandable. The minister of finance cries out that the joint is used to point out the obvious, that it is not sweet. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u20	The president would like to get involved in this discussion, since the meeting held by the president was discussed with members of the council yesterday, which was nice and upbuilding. There the conclusion was that in particular a case from the left movement and the United States of America would be started tomorrow so that there would be material space to cover these matters, as well as, of course, the program would be a problem in these circumstances at the beginning of a conference that would not be prepared as a minister. Congress officials have the opportunity to discuss these or other matters at the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u21	A respectable president. Everything that is wrong in an Icelandic political bitch was finely crystal in the speech of both. paritaprevir Ríkharðsdóttir Ragnheiður earlier. When there has been such a trust problem, as it has become, and has been revealed through the Panama Documents, where part of the nation, elite, has absorbed money from the Icelandic economy, and including Ministers in this government, it is reasonable that we, as we sit here, ask ourselves: " How can we rebuild the trust needed in this institution? Instead, it's a choice. A senator and this government putting on their boxing gloves and knocking back while the rest of us try to ask: Can we together find a flat surface on rebuilding trust in this institution again? [["Just team"?]] This is best done by elections, through conversations with the nation on the way forward. No, this government is about to defend itself. It has to be protected. [[The president calls.]] This isn't the way, Mr. Honorable President, and that's what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u22	A respectable president. We've had our last loss in such a time that at the beginning of a meeting, we've been joined by a conference board of presidents who were designed to discuss a program and something that would go wrong with the President's conference board and he's changed to become a conference team for members of the smaller section to promote his views. That, of course, is their choice. On the other hand, I think that one of the things that is wrong with the public and voters at the General and us politicians is simply such use in the General Assembly Museum instead of focusing on the work we're doing in front of us, all members of the different committees. It is truly a work that certainly threatens us with national problems, causing us to worry about how we get away from them. [[Up front.]] Here is a very strong greater part of the government, which the smaller part has challenged and lost. [[Take it up: Strong more things...]] [[The president calls.]] It's perfectly normal for us to finish them. The call from the public and voters in the country is that we do our job.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u23	V.E.G. President. I can see myself being moved to come up here because I don't agree with anything at all. Prime Minister in the way the nation views how we defend our time at the General Assembly and where the emphasis is to be, including how we use this team, the chairmanship of the President. I may hear other voices than the highest. The prime minister, but we also reflect different groups in the community, so it is only natural for us to reflect different voices in our midst. What I hear is the question: Why is there no more emphasis on discussing the highest authority? A government in the Panamas? Why is that not the case at the World Council? Ministers haven't resigned? And why is the matter continued as if nothing ever happened? [[The president calls.]] This is what I hear from the people. I think it's important that we do the same thing, and that's why I don't agree completely. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u24	Mr. President. I have to say, I don't agree with the highest degree. Prime Minister, who approves of taxes and deportations. He did it here last night. He claims that the largest protests from Iceland that took place not long ago, since the people called for elections immediately, called for the government to go away, not merely the expression of a former prime minister. We are now pulling up one case after another in connection with the Agency, we sit with a minister in a government that is linked to national societies, that is not what the nation asks of them, that these parties have the authority to complete some specific, undefined task they intend to choose for who will be. At least it's not what people are talking about around me and it's not just my voters, that I can assure you of. The prime minister, too, has said: In any case, it is the best choice to renew the agency. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And that's what we're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u25	Mr. President. It is with the nation whether we of the people can refer to the people's will and national will. National preferences are often measured in surveys. The national will now stands for a price. [[For example, consider: It's wrong.]] [[Up front.]] It's not supported. The government does not have the support of much of the nation. It can talk about the greater part of the Council forever and hide behind him, 38 members of the United States, but more of the nation does not support it. Men did not come to the east to call on that government to come through as often as possible and sit as sweet. They were calling for this government to move away, and the commission would be renewed. It seems to me that if neither members of Congress nor any of the highest, there's a difference. Ministers listen to such voices. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The problem of trust in the nation is not the General Assembly or the Assembly Building. [[The president calls.]] It is the Independence Party and the Front Party primarily.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u26	There are: Prime Minister, financial and economic minister, health minister and social and housing minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u27	A respectable president. The issues of tax snow are naturally high, and it is very important for Iceland to take the lead in combating taxes. Our problem is that the government has been very hairy, so to speak, in response to its view of these matters and has not relied on to declare that property in the tax industry is unacceptable, is socially harmful. Here was the last weekend president of the PES, a company of European peers, Sergei Stanishev, former Prime Minister of Bulgaria, and hosted policies of the European Socialist Party, which has been published at 12 points, on anti-lleas measures. These include the making of information agreements between the European Union and all countries who have undergone OECD's contracts on fiscal and financial information exchanges and that countries will be put into use the pressures that are not prepared to submit to such agreements and agreements. It is suggested to oblige financial companies to provide information to the tax authorities on non-EU accounts, which are not ready to submit such agreements or agreements and to promote transparency and information on enterprises registered outside the European Union but which work within the EU, such as the real owners. These are proposed actions on international companies working in the European Union that they have to give up all their income for taxes, and that they will be strengthened by legal legislation for the assistance of banks in tax collections, but we have seen in the coverage of the European Union that there are Icelandic banks that have supported that activity. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of the budget: Is he ready to agree with this trend? [[The president calls.]] Is he willing to work with us that Iceland will be the point of a campaign for these important goals? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u28	A respectable president. Iceland is on the lead in today's struggle to expose the secrets of taxes, to the information that we've done, and to the extent that we've done such information exchanges. A senator here talks about. We have adopted OECD's latest standards, and we are among the nations that first introduce them. We don't have money, we've got tens of millions of dollars to buy data to get a better look at who's going to cheat, who's not going to come back. It's a good thing for you to show up, because I don't feel that many senators are informed, that the government has the authority to get information from the financial system and that it has already done so. Hv. A senator says that the members of the board of directors are somewhat reluctant to take part in this struggle. That's not true. I think there's one thing. A senator's lack of accurate knowledge, that is, by making information exchange agreements, by going that way, accepts the existence of a national island, those who accept the trade that takes place there. And when you go to the governor of the tax, pick up a shelf form, fill it out, and deliver it in that way. A senator agreed with a special CFC law is men - like I supported such things as, just so that it's clear, if there's something shaking their heads over them - when men do this, when they give their jobs according to Icelandic law, fill out the forms they're supposed to do in Icelandic institutions, I don't think it's normal for them to come up here and say, "This is the people, these are the people we're going to set up a special research committee on the World Congress and list their names. That's a suggestion for the left green. I think it's exactly what happened at the UN's special meeting last week, according to what I saw in the news, that we have to make a fundamental difference between those who cheat and steal, not returning their money, and the tax frauds on the other hand, and the way we should go to minimize the benefits of going that way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We have to make a difference between that and those who show up to the governor of the tax and explain what they are doing. [[The president calls.]] This is what I feel a lot of senators in this chamber have not yet been able to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u29	A respectable president. I participated in agreeing to the CFC law. It was in order to get the State a chance to earn money from possessions hidden in foreign societies. [[Foreground on: No.]] What does not involve, however, is a general recognition of a good or positive possession in an ethnic society. That's where I feel the government is drawing its feet. The head of the Treaty and the head tax Committee have confirmed this, stating that there are only two reasons that could lead to the possession of societies, i.e. will to avoid paying taxes or to hide property. As a result, any who establish such associates need to explain whether of the two he had in mind when intent on forming the law of money. That's what the problem is, it's a credible problem of the highest level. The financial minister himself, and that is a lack of the government on clear lines in that subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u30	A respectable president. There's nothing about it. If human legislation on CCS and information is published, guidance on how to account for these objects, set at the same time the rule that there is no profit, the tax benefits that could be involved in being in such a tax area, except to a certain extent, that humans will not be allowed to enjoy it to a certain extent, then they will be prepared to create an exchange for activities, possessions, and revenues in such areas. This must be acknowledged. [[Up front.]] Of course, it is surprising that at the council, the proposal that we are going to discuss on Friday is to set up a special research committee to list those people and to publish publicly in a report by those who have followed the laws given by this law. How remarkable it is that people are being addressed in this discussion! But I'm telling you I'm willing to cooperate with whoever at the Council highlights that we're evading the tax fraud, we're gonna get those who are trying to escape, we're going to fight money. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I have personally signed an OECD contract in order for Iceland to be a major and full part of it and to be on top of it, and we are going to continue that work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u31	Mr. President. V.E.G. Economic and economic ministers want to differentiate between how to use societies. It has been repeated in his case during the council that this matter is primarily a tax charge, not a partner's existence in the entire tax industry. V.E.G. A minister can at least correct that understanding, but that is how I understand the highest. A minister during international discussions, I thought that we could agree on, is whether the existence of these taxes alone does not disqualify the competitive status of a job where there is a second play, as we have, for example, set ourselves here. We're gonna set up specific rules in Iceland. Those playing them are in a competitive position different from those with societies in taxes. The existence of these partners, we must ask ourselves, " Is she normal? ' It is the battle and debate on a global scale and the secrecy of it. But I didn't mean to ask. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of what I asked him about last week was a good deal of fever during the discussion, so he reached the highest point. A minister may not have come quite to answer me in the inquiry. It turns to those who have deportations here and is supposed to now be able to get out of oceans through an outing of deportations. There has been a requirement for digging or searching for information on the real possession of those who own them deportations, i.e. e.g., i. that the bane force of this information on real owners. It's under the roof. Ministers that this might be considered, and even if it is possible to take some action that will prevent those who do not wish to give up the real estate from being released? [[The president calls.]] Through an invitation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u32	A respectable president. I'm beginning to think it's a little strange. It's like people feel bad that they're supporting these CCs, that there are certain laws and rules, giving people instructions on how to make an account for themselves and how they'll be taxed because, as a result, today after the documents come, people come along and say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, it's not a fight to be delivered, it's nothing about exposing the secret, it's not about money and tax fraud. No, it's a fight. It's a fight. Wait - why, then, to negotiate CFC legislation that accepts functions in these areas? Why not simply put in a bill at that time? Why are people at the OECD scene making information exchanges with these countries? Why negotiate with those who do not wish to be seen? Humans have come to an all - out corner in their argument. People don't make deals with those they're going to disown. It can't be. We've got a full circle of men. This highlights what was so fine at the United States conference, and I noticed in the news that the important thing in these matters is to focus on money and tax fraud and secrecy. In addition, individual states can go as far as we Iceland has done so further and take away all the benefits, the taxable benefits, or the rest of their brothers. But if we want to go the other way, let's just stop making information exchanges. This is likely to be of little value because human beings may be based on the possibility of such a existence and may somehow be taxed here. That's the rules. It's a complete transponder. Regarding individual owners, I believe that tax agencies, tax research executives, and government tax managers have the opportunity to get the relevant information and after experiences to evaluate whether it calls and warrants further research. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u33	Mr. President. V.E.G. Ministers are concerned that I'm beginning to feel bad. I don't feel so bad. But I'm wondering if it's the highest. Ministers are beginning to feel bad about the question I brought last week, coming back and not getting the answer. I can bring her back next week. You're welcome. But now, let me repeat the question. The government emphasizes the importance of completing execution. You've got to finish a load of exits. Is it proper to publish information as to whether they belong to some of the Icelanders or to those who own bonds of debt or to banks in the snow hanger? Is it possible, if people don't give up their real estate, that they won't be released? Is this something of the highest order? A minister has considered, or would he like to consider, an invitation to a foreign country? That's the question, Mr. President. I'd love to get an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u34	A respectable president. It would've been nice to have an opinion. It's a senator's idea, too. I... [[Up front.]] It's classic to say that you have to... [[Reply...]] If I had a chance to answer in advance. The situation is that. One member of the United States says: "Can we not try to determine if there are any Icelanders in some foreign community who may be sharing in the invitations? If so, what should we do about it? I was answering that in my first talk: It gives the tax authorities reason to see if everything is right there. So it is said: "If they don't want to give up the real possession that is involved, what are we to do about it? Wait, if we don't know what real estate is, how can we figure out if these are Icelanders or anyone else? I think this question has come a little round. [[Up front.]] Whatever it is. A senator is, in effect, saying: " Should we prevent the participation of any particular party in an assignment with an amendment? [[The president calls.]] If we've reasoned that it's those participants who're cheating on the taxes in Iceland, I trust the institutions we've established to get their tails, drag them back here, accuse them, or sufficiency them according to Icelandic law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to begin by celebrating that tomorrow's discussion of demilitarized societies, which is, of course, the language of the Icelandic politics. I'd like to direct an inquiry to the highest level. I'm thinking financial and economic minister because I'm thinking about our status at the council. I take the responsibility of being a senator, and as we know, the Panama Documents have caused total political confusion. What was discovered, was exposed by the release of the documents, and is showing up today each week is that trust and faith in Icelandic political life are completely broken down if there was something to cry out to. One of the main arguments for continuing the independent and forwarding activities of independence classes was that this must be completed in a very important way, to be viewed as a matter of special national interest. I would like to agree that our place at the General Assembly is not the least of our national interests and interests, but, for example, the interests of some political party we belong to. A list of more than 70 cases has now been seen from the government, but still, it is a little unclear what matters are so important that we need a government that, unfortunately, does not seem to have much confidence among the people. What matters are of the highest order. Secretary of finance believes that they are so important that they call this government and that there are none other than an independent party and a forwarding party that can lead to its end?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u36	Mr. President. Of course, I'm very sorry I can't come up here and express full confidence in the bright future and the left green to finish the government's affairs or bring similar issues and bring them to its end. I'm not going to do it. When we point out that we're going to finish our business, we are referring to the total number of cases that have been held since the council was made in September, all the human years that have been working on those committees of the council. We are referring to the list that the government either says is shamefully short or unrealisticly long. The list may include issues that may have conflicting views on the matter. We believe this is an important development. Let me give you the number one, I'm going to take out a penitentiary. Let me mention number two, going over a five - year economic plan, and setting up the country, Iceland, in accordance with official financial policies until the next year, and discussing it at the council. May I mention issues that involve social security, health, and numerous such factors, even U.S. students. We can go elsewhere if you want to, but I'm just referring to the list. I don't expect any senators to agree. Anyone can step up into this pit and put a gill on it all, but then it simply turns out in a vote whether it's not so that behind most of these cases there's only a strong more thing. People often resort to saying something malicious, etc. It is not more democratic than allowing the council to act in accordance with law and constitution to promote the council's will. Since then, I look forward to meeting with the voters and putting the tremendous success on the board that the government has achieved during this and previous years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u37	A respectable president. While the government groups agreed that the election would be started immediately, they still acknowledge the political confusion that the election needs to be accelerated and chosen in the fall. It is obvious that the government groups are fully aware that there is a crisis in Icelandic politics. I wondered: " This list is filled with fine things, many subjects would even have parapolitic support. Is there a need for a private government to deliver this case? V.E.G. Secretary of the budget is calling decommissionment. Is it not a project that has been the role of many governments since the creation of a wide agreement in 2008 with much of the Presidency of the Navy Bank? Do you not agree that the facilities mentioned are mainly sharper than the rest of the parties at the General Assembly? [[The president calls.]] I wondered when I examined the General Assembly program today because it is about a month since the government began - the removal of the law on the pension fund of farmers, the EEA building fund, the EEA rules on animal health and plant health, these are the important issues that call for us to be here in the council? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u38	Mr. President. This is an inexpensive game, taking up a case that has been in progress, minimizing all the officials involved in it, minimizing the work of committees that have called for themselves applications, etc. It's a matter we're going to finish, yes. This is not our most important issue. I'm not going to argue that the matter that men pick up from an almost 80 - is this the case? Of course, this is not an acceptable presentation. This is not an acceptable presentation of the council. It is not acceptable to the council, members of the Parliament, the political affairs of the country, to mention some such matter and say: "Look what the council is doing on useless matters. Of course, that is not an acceptable presentation. But when people get involved, I'm going to say one thing: every single day lost in taking away the seas in Iceland is a cause of damage to Iceland and the Icelandic economy every day. By starting the election right now, we would have caused damage to it, because within a few days, a bill would appear. Within a few weeks, we'll keep this invitation. Then we'll start evaporating the process a day until then, two days before it would have been worth it. [[The president calls.]] It's worth it. That's my opinion. And then they can come up with a different opinion and demean it and make themselves broad and say, "Well, we would have done it all like this. " [[The president calls.]] It's easy to say later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u39	A respectable president. I now have a very simple question and expect a very simple answer. I hope it's just gonna be one vote. I'm going to the top. The prime minister to the election in the fall?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u40	A respectable president. The short answer is natural: Yes, as noted in many conversations and conversations with the smaller sections and in the statements of the leading classes. We have also submitted a Constitution, asked the council to reexamine the work programme, and said that this is the work that we want to accomplish. Many in minorities have said that this is not a problem. They have even gone so far as to say that they do not need a summer council to do so. I expect all members of the Parliament to focus on completing this mission, and then we're going to vote in the fall, as we have discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u41	A respectable president. This 70 case log, available here, is the highest. Secretary of finance has already said that the government must simply finish, including a new law on the Icelandic loan fund, but the bill has not yet appeared before the council, nor is it a bill on social security that is also there. I don't quite understand how important it is to finish all these matters so we can walk to the election right away. What the hell is the matter? Who are we waiting for? How is it possible for our little council, which only seems to be 63 senators, to complete all these matters? I don't see how we should have time to discuss these matters and do them properly. It's a question of how realistic this whole thing is and whether it's the highest. At that time, the prime minister will keep his big words. Or will any other excuse be replaced?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u42	A respectable president. The Senate has been working all winter. This ideal period has lasted three years. Some of the projects have been discussed and prepared in committees throughout that period, and representatives of the minority have been involved in this by majority category. Some of the issues on this list are very far away. We're about to vote later on on about some stuff, finish up last week. The number of members of Congress, as well as how far they are, is no longer longer than the traditional council, and it is not unusual to complete them. It is normal that all committees of the council, not just in one or two, should be worked on just one or two matters. Since the time line on very important matters of execution is being handled, it is only natural for the Council to work on other committees while finishing matters about execution. For society, it is important that it continues to work. It is important to complete all kinds of matters that the government does not put in particular. It is only natural that the council uses its time to review these issues. There is plenty of time for us to work professionally and end this professionally by reevaluating the Council's work programme. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u43	A respectable president. The Norwegian bank of DNB, which is of large importance to the Norwegian State, has personally collected information in the bank on the business of customers in the Offland Islands and has given it to the Norwegian tax authorities. I therefore ask Bjarni Benediktsson, the secretary of finance, who also handles the responsibility of the State's holding part in business banks, whether or not he will take advantage of any information about the communications and trade between the Icelandic customers in the Icelandic banks of the African Islands, whether or not they'll be suspected of a federal taxpayer. All e-mail communications, all telephone calls, all letters, all communications between business banks and their branch offices and, later, banks in Luxembourg and with their customers'nationalities. Will secretary of finance take the initiative that all the information that is truly available in the Icelandic banks, just as they were available in Panama's law firm, be brought into the banks and driven to the tax authorities?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u44	Madam President. The information that lays. A senator refers to something that may be in the Icelandic financial system, probably in most cases in the older bank agency or, as in some case, in some case at the New Bank Institute, the tax authorities are legally available. Tax study manager has been requested to submit data based on individual case assessment as needed. This data has been investigated by an tax investigator. These data have become tax investigators, depending on individual cases, a reason to take some action. This will be considered, among other things, in an answer that is being prepared for a question I have received. So I don't think any initiative is needed in this regard. What I've done, however, is that I've searched for it, both in the government tax manager and in the tax investigator's office, whether there's anything special in the law or in the regulations, or in the budgets that are needed to further this office and to respond specifically to available data. In this topic, a view has developed for the Council's Economic and Business Committee, and I intend to take special measures to ensure that all cracks, any holes that may be involved, we do not have to be in any doubt that the institutions we have established are fully and with all the resources required to carry out our assignments. For the query it is my information that this information has already been obtained. I don't know exactly what form or how extensive it is, but as far as I know, responses have been received from the financial system to queries according to their content.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u45	A respectable president. Why does a secretary of finance not want to follow the Norwegian example and take the initiative to have banks in the state to provide all the information on these subjects? Legal, says the highest. Secretary of finance. You're responsible. You agreed to CFC. A respectable president. Legal but immoral. [[Up front.]] It has long been the opinion of the board that it would be safely subject to the fact that because of international commitments and the European Economic Convention, it would be impossible for us to have possessions on the continents. However, after the announcement of the material during the days, an ESA's landmark declaration stated that Iceland was not an obstacle to forbidding property in Iceland's national legislation. This, a respectable president, is a completely new position. I ask the secretary of finance: Is he willing to follow the ESA declarations and simply forbid the actions that the governor and the head tax committee have declared never for any honest purpose? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u46	Madam President. Asks me why I don't want one initiative. These are the institutions that have taken the initiative, and if I see reason to take special steps, I will not be left waiting for them. However, it is already known that the institutions have taken the initiative and have carried out their duty. I call on members of Congress to give minimal confidence in these institutions. I feel that the discussion alone shows a great lack of confidence that the agencies in question can and will fulfill their legal role. I trust institutions completely. I also trust the opinion of the head of state tax, as shown on the Senate committee, that there may be a strong claim to going that way. A senator says, simply forbid. It's not always the way to ban by law. As we know, people can be embarrassed and have already come to pass. We already have a law against tax fraud, don't we? [[The president calls.]] We do not have tax frauds, yet we still have an tax investigator to do away with tax fraud. We have a sentence against the other and this, but there's a violation here and where. That is not always the way. [[The president calls.]] But any way that makes it more likely that we will be more effective in eliminating money and tax fraud is a way I will support. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u47	A respectable president. It is unavoidable to continue the discussion that started this morning on the matter of the Senate and its progress, especially after a candidate for the Agency's company, the Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, called here from the back class to the possibility of elections in April 2017. Of course, the Senator is representing the Agency's House of Booths, and it raises the question again whether it is the actual plan of the government to destroy matters and to try to postpone elections first until the fall and then until the spring, and whether the declaration of the Minister of finance should be chosen in the fall and it will be the last assembly during this election period or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u48	A respectable president. Little wonder that suspicion is prevalent in the community and that political trust is lost when the simple question that will be chosen and what is this high priority is something that grows into this new government a clean political table so much that it is totally forbidden to speak clearly in that subject. When a financial minister is responding to the government opposition, both in the President's conference board and during a question period, it is heard here by benches that it should be chosen in April 2017. And who is it? It's a senator of the forward party who's on the Presidency Committee. There is a senator on the Presidency Committee who believes that it is in order to suggest, legally or falsely, that there is no standing to keep the promise of a financial minister and prime minister of elections in the fall. [[The president calls.]] Is it surprising, though, that we call it, Mr. President, that it is spoken clearly and that there is absolutely no intention?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u49	A respectable president. I think it's in the best answers. A minister of finance, like this decision to speed up elections somehow fell from the sky or was lost by humans. There was much civil unrest, and the government responded, to the state of the highest. The prime minister, who was naturally very bad, decides to speed up elections. She's still going to finish her whole list of cases instead of just setting up a special day, making elections and putting it over all the other classes to say, "We're ready to make a case, it's an important thing we want to finish, if you choose us to finish them." In fact, have a list of promises and policy issues for the next election. [[The president calls.]] I'm getting kind of confused. There's a possibility that if I'm just gonna say it right now, we'll never finish some 70 cases, it's incontrovertible, and some of them who's pretty insignificant and weird. It would be good if governments were to speak clearly in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u50	A respectable president. I'd like to ask for some respect that I'm not discussing the President's conference board, but I feel compelled to discuss it in a manner like this. There is reason to do something because there is something wrong. A senator calling from a hall. Is human beings really serious? I call attention to this, because they speak of confidence at the council: this council has been discussing a meeting with President for 21 and a half hours. Over 21 hours It's two minutes' speeches. In any case, it should not be said that they are building trust in the council by acting in this way. This time is twice as long as it has averaged on average, 2003,2013. This is information from the council office.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u51	Madam President. It is important to keep it in place that it was Bjarni son of Benediktsson who announced the election. It was Bjarni son of Benediktsson who was about to shorten the terms of one assembly. It wasn't the smaller part and not the people in the East who said it. The people in the East called for elections immediately. We've been following it, the smaller part of the council. When digests come from both administration groups that the next spring is not suitable, once they have been spoken by the highest power. Minister here to vote earlier, it's not unusual for us to ask ourselves when we can't get a given date: Is there something to mark? The Senate is to be shortened, yet the Constitution is to be summed up and taken up in spring, a case that has not yet been presented, a case that has not even been negotiated, and handled in this council. Of course, it's very unnatural. The trust in the council is not given to those ministers who have communities in the islands leading the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u52	A respectable president. In the absence of a scheduled date, we have just been told that an election will be elections at some point in the fall, it is reasonable to feel suspicious when members of the council call for no vote until next spring. [[Up front.]] It promotes distrust. Hv. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þórðarson, what is the point of not merely presenting the date? What's behind them is that humans want to be able to wave it in front of us like a covert that needs to finish up here some particular thing and have power over it. You see, men are so lame and so small in this room that they need to have caused their own way. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u53	You know how it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u54	A respectable president. I've never waved a perfect day in front of anyone. I've never done that before. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. However, members of Congress are doing so on the side of this hall. This is not welcome. This needs to be changed, and you need to tell us when to vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u55	A respectable president. With that. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - Þór of Þórðarson is most reprehensible for me to take seriously the pleas of the day. paritaprevir The late president of the Generals Committee for Presidency, Dr. Gestein's Sæmundsson, Sólmundur, may well ask for favors. But as for the respect and work here, I would like to say that I said earlier at the meeting that there were no cases written on the government case list. All the work as the highest. The secretary of finance spoke of earlier has simply not been won. To illustrate the respect of the government, it offers a full reexamination of the social security system of tens of thousands of Icelanders. Last week, the first meeting on the legal contract on this subject was announced at the Ministry of Health - the first meeting to consider how to write a law on the overall reexamination of tens of thousands of Icelanders. It's all about work. Of course, they are none. They are tents to try to postpone the inevitable, to meet the voters' judgment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u56	President. Government leaders said, I think I'm correct in saying that it was the chairman of the Independence Party who said it here a few weeks ago that one assembly would be taken from behind the election period. One assembly, held at the Council of 146 C.E., is due to begin another Tuesday in September. That must mean, because I still want to try, at least sometimes, to listen to the leaders of this government. Although we naturally know they promised elections for application to the European Union and betray it, I still hope they can be trusted. That means that there will be no assembly on Tuesday in September; there must be no later election than that day. We'll know when the council should meet. [[The president calls.]] There must be an answer to this, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u57	A respectable president. It's interesting that at the same time as before. Councilmen come up here and talk about the need to increase the respect of the council, they come up here and call their members lame and small. Holy shit. That's what a senator has to do with him. I think all involved agree that there is a need to complete a particular matter and then choose. If they're defective, if they're not working well enough, then naturally it's important that we go to them, and they say, "What do you think we're gonna do? " Or at worst, we're not gonna be able to finish them. But one thing is certain, we're not working on national interests by taking part here and abusing the past President's meeting board. That's perfectly clear. Wait a minute. Senators taking care of national interests because it's the nation's interest that we end important matters before we vote. It is clear to everyone that they consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u58	A new deforestation agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u59	A respectable president. It's obvious, as noted earlier today, that the government is on the decline. She's trying to plan that retreat by postponing elections until October and having stuck answers and obviously entertaining the idea of postponing elections. For good reason, the government has doubts about that promise and has a bad suspicion that it does not stand even for them. As we learned here, the highest was spoken. Secretary of finance to shorten the terms of one assembly. Of course, this means that no longer can the election be delayed until the first week of September. A budget needs to be submitted. There would be something that might be able to negotiate that my knowledge, without me speaking on behalf of anyone but myself, would agree with the government's opposition to submit it, introduce it to the emphasis on financial affairs to be seen by the fall, then interrupt the council and the campaign. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are no other tasks that this council needs to resolve because anything listed here would be better in the hands of someone other than the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u60	Madam President. The feathers flow from this government one by one, and now there are not many. Still speak alike. Congress so that this government and its projects are so important, and it just works out that she is allowed to complete her list of projects. Of course, this is the only thing that anyone of sound mind will believe - I doubt it. The members of the greater part believe this themselves. But it's running. And speaking of credibility, when it is. Government officials are constantly calling out that we should just vote for the next spring, how on earth we can be sure that we're going to stand by votes in the fall like the highest power. Ministers published? It's not solidified when the message is so paradoxed and skunked in these cases. There's just no trust in these things. So it is not to be trusted, either, that under the direction of the Agency and the Independence Party, there is an investigation of taxes, societies, and the survival of the Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] They do not trust any human, for this government is responsible for such a study. [[The president calls.]] It takes an independent official investigation, not under the control of those people who have had great access to these matters themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u61	President. I think it's important in this conversation that we're going to throw up more questions on our own day. I'd like to ask the highest. The president whether work has begun to change the terms and election laws that arise, because obviously this new assembly will be later on than under law and financial bill, as the president tells us, will be submitted in October. Is this preparation begun? And I would like to ask the president if preparations are started for the voters from abroad who need to be filed on an election file, they need to be informed when a vote is open, etc., in some places it is long times that people need to know exactly how, our embassies and districts around the world need to prepare elections. This is unprecedented time, we're talking about choosing here outside the traditional period for the first time since the fall of 1979. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm asking if the President and the Office of the Generals are starting to prepare for the changes needed to be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u62	President. I strongly object that I am abusing this program on the President's conference board when I see that the directors of this government live up to the promises they make and call for them to be fulfilled. This program is not to be abused. When else will this be expressed? The people in this country are saying that they will be chosen immediately. It is also my requirement, more honorable president, to vote at once. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] A respectable president. Can men who talk to me be stopped when I'm talking? Is that not the misuse of one's position in the Senate Hall? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u63	The President asks for peace in the council chamber and asks the senators to give...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u64	A respectable president. I still call for an independent party leader to fulfill his word and to do what he must do to keep them, who is telling us that this will be elected not later than the first week of September because one assembly must be canceled, and it will start another Tuesday in September. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u65	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Gullful Þórðarson came up here and informed us that, in his view, it was not a matter of time. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. Thus, the rest of us listen when members of the Parliament call out that it may not be chosen until the next spring. Why do we do this? Because the decision has been made not to answer the question of an elected date with any date. Why is this so? Do they not do so because they want to show who have the authority? If it's not called misuse of power, I don't know what it means. We've got a lot of power around here. V.E.G. A minister of finance, president of the Independence Party, makes himself unpredictable when he comes and draws ashore by claiming that one legislature would be cut from this ideal period, for then in September it would be chosen. [[The president calls.]] Is it to be hauled ashore now? Are the members of the council here going to make him a poltergeist?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u66	Madam President. I told them before under this team that the government is falling away from power. They protested. Prime Minister. I wondered, after the exchange of words I had with him from this talk, what really is the understanding of the Independence Party, why it should be chosen in the fall. Why did the government come to that conclusion? What's the explanation if it's not that after the greatest protests in Iceland, the government is falling away from power? On the one hand, I would like to say that, of course, the talks will have been written in the fall of government spokesmen and have been designed for that event. Of course, the government must teach why the election needs to be postponed until spring. This will be because the government opposition was not ready to work on the many good things the government had to do before the elections. It's so predictable that most of the time it can be. It is all that is needed to present some form of deceptive matter, e.g. To destroy the Icelandic loan fund, let the government stand here, and then they can continue until the spring of 2017. [[The president calls.]] That's what they've designed here and they've made a living.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u67	A respectable president. The evil suspect in this matter is exactly the one who had it. A senator for Róbert Marshall has entered the court of this matter. It seems that there is a series of developments in order for the government to hang his election fraud, a betrayal of the promise of elections in the fall, of the government's opposition. It's the play they're designing. Sadly, this seems to be the reason why dates cannot be specified and humans are in a race for a promise that was never given to the government, notice that it was given to the public. It was given to the public, and it is to the public that the government must fulfill primarily that promise. Of course, the role of the ruling force is to force the word to stand up. The government is trying to escape the inevitable judgment of this country's voters over the inadequacies and corruption that have now been revealed within the ranks of the government, where the third part of which is connected or connected to a few weeks ago by national and tax authorities. [[The president calls.]] That's a fact. That's what humans are trying to avoid right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u68	A respectable president. This, of course, is an unscrupulous saying. Absolutely out of partners. It is hard to believe that these people feel that they are self-important in politics and the Allied to promote such language, dishonestly out of proportion, as is now hoped and referred to, and with great disrespect for the council and the work here. [[Up front.]] But I wonder if that's the case. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall met his nail a little earlier when he was under a rose to threaten us because the matter of changing the loan fund of Icelandic students wouldn't go through, that's what we were going to teach the government side in the fall? This, of course, includes the covert threat and direct threat that has been presented here repeatedly in the case. The senators of the council's memory that they are not going to let any matter go through. Some of them have gone so far as to say, " We don't let anyone go through it. ' There will be no discussion here. They are showing this by their actions, these one, two, three, four, five, six members of the government resistance that are here at the Senate Hall right now to support this filament of speech. [[The president calls.]] Blahing trepidation, very tasteless and indistinguishable. But that may be the very reason, this cover - up threat. They're not going to let anything go. [[The president calls.]] Are we going to vote under the circumstances that such indiscriminate and unscrupulous debate takes place to hold the council hostage? [[The president calls.]] No, we're not gonna let it stand against a wall. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] We have promised voters that they will be chosen in the fall, but this, of course, is based on the fact that the council will start a business and get to work. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u69	A respectable president. You may have to spell it into your head. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. We don't trust you. [[Top of the hall, the Groundhog.]] You've said you're going to have elections before, and you haven't. [[Up front.]] It's just the position we're looking at. Hv. A senator must endure the fact that there are people here who have different opinions and who doubt that this promise will exist. That's because there's a reason. That's a bad experience. When were the European elections due to take place? What was promised in that regard? Why has that promise not been fulfilled? [[Take it up against national law.]] When did it happen? [[Take it up, you fell...]] The people do not trust these groups. It shows polls, and we don't trust you. [[Up front.]] That's why we want to know when to do this. [[Foreground: You're so honest.]] [[The president calls.]] Yeah. [[The president calls.]] I just feel like it's a non-communication. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, who comes here in a hurry to accuse people of dishonesty, as if he were somehow the ruler of the truth in all matters. [[The president calls.]] This is not even logical in any way. [[The president calls.]] Here comes, multi-strengthed by contractors and factories, fighting for their interests back and forth again and again. [[Up front.]] He blames everyone other than himself for dishonesty. [[Take it up to me: "Dear John.]] You're just supposed to set up an offer at Sicily.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u70	Madam President. This government is full of trust. You just have to start facing it. Right away. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson comes up here, and you are growing stronger in your faith that the promises they made to the nation, the use of proben, the people, we are not talking about the opposition, that they should choose in the fall. They're going to push all the cases they've planned to come through before the election in April 2017, now to squeeze it together in one good shot and punch it through at this time. But things don't happen that way. We must recognize that such unfaithfulness is no longer possible. We cannot be drawn back and forth in the government position, confident that there is killing matters on the horizon and focusing on things other than the problem itself, the government is completely trusting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u71	A respectable president. Now I have to stand up for this battle that has lasted here for an hour and a half. I have to say, as it is for me to join the nation, and I am offended by the way Congress spends its time in unprovoked terms about what has been said for a few weeks at the council. They've already said you should vote in the fall. Of course, that will be the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u72	How many are going to live up to it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u73	I just think everyone's gonna do it. [[Up front.]] But I guess the distrust is mutual too, when you don't want to mention what day it is, because it's the first time that you'll be in the parking lot and nothing will work. I think we all need to take a look at ourselves and see to it that we have to complete the work that we are going to do, each of us, and carry out the activities of the Parliament so that the election can be announced in the fall, at the end of October, as it has been discussed, and we can do so. Part of our survival is that the smaller part is involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u74	We'll finish all good business with the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u75	Yeah, don't waste your time on this shit. [[76 cases.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u76	Madam President. Some may join in speaking to the people, others not. This is not permitted by some members of the board of directors in this room. The procurator of the Independence Party that it is impossible to speak on behalf of the nation. V.E.G. Secretary of finance, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, announced his election, praised the nation's elections, he didn't promise us the political opposition, he promised the nation. He was going to shorten the council for one terms. There's aish language, one council. There are some things to be done if the minister is going to keep that promise. But he has not had a reputation to say that he is going to do so and has not told us when to choose. It matters. Tuesday, September, at a council assembly. Congress has not been altered. It has not been foretold that they should be changed. [[The president calls.]] The minister also needs to tell us that he intends to do so, that he will make adjustments in the assembly in order to set up a council later, so that a financial bill can be submitted later, and that it can be measured, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It has not been done, let alone people who are abroad who need long notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u77	Madam President. The incidence of diabetes is a big problem in Iceland, just as it is worldwide. Diabetes causes a great decline in the quality of life of those who receive it, resulting in great social costs. By means of the Senate resolution proposal, we are united on a welfare committee to suggest that an employee review the right course for a certain age of diabetes screening and if a special diabetes registry is to be held. I hope that the entire body of Congress can unite in the proposal as well as with a welfare committee and believe that there is a great improvement in health care levels in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u78	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to a new law on public shopping, which includes an overall review of existing laws on the same topic. The main objective of the bill is to ensure transparency, equal access, and increase the competition for public agreements within countries as well as in the European Economic Areas. The changes are taking a step toward today's public shopping, since shopping management should include main policies using electronic methods by the end of 2018. Then the shopping process is simplified and greatly reduced the writing skills of companies on oers. There is also increasing opportunities for public officials to use flexible shopping processes in complex purchases. An important step is to increase the possibility of public contacts in the country to gather shopping together to achieve better results and practicality in shopping public. I set up a minister of a temporary project management, which has had the responsibility of promoting joint shopping and developing increased efficiency in the business of the state on the basis of government funds and institutions. Recent invitations for which the project management has been leading have produced considerable results, including shopping on computers that dropped well over a quarter of the previous price. Clearly, there are tremendous opportunities here to improve the use of public funds beyond the consistent purchases. The bill suggests that government agencies are obliged to share in certain purchases. This document allows for better purchases to be used and for the greater size of government purchases and to continue working on the way that has been marketd through mutual purchases. The bill also contains a warrant for offering certain purchases in closer partnerships with foreign partners in the EEA region. It may be a reason for the public to take advantage of this authority when it comes to very specialized purchases that only the government buys at all costs and that little competition exists, e.g. for buying drugs or special equipment for the police. There is a need to modify the current legal requirements which assume confirmation of the Contestant Commission's competitive assessment of a shopping centre. Nevertheless, there is a requirement for buying, or at the end of Kingdom Hall events, to inform the Contestance Commission of the planned purchases and provide support for the application of 1 mg. the law and the following events provide a copy of the contract following an invitation. In this way, the Governing Body can have a view of shopping on the basis of the arrangement. In addition, there is a requirement to inform the Contestant for reasons why shopping is needed in another state rather than doing so in a general way on a domestic market. Mr. President. Emphasis is placed on the bill to show that the rules on public shopping are for a collective rule in this field that includes both the purchases of the Kingdom and of the rural groups. Thus, market policies for state and rural society are consistent in that national reference levels, previously valid for the State alone, will continue to reach rural communities. This will help to increase the economy and the transparency of public funds to the general market, where the same shopping regulations will apply to the purchases of public citizens who carry public funds. To meet local societies because of changes in the values of the reference height, adjustments have been made to the leaves of the bill, which, in particular, aim to relax specific formal requirements for less purchases. At the same time, the national reference height has been increased slightly from the current law. In that case, rural communities are expected to have a three - year lead-in period until a general discharge takes effect against them and therefore allow sufficient time to adapt procedures to new demands. Rules on public shopping, shopping procedures, main policy remain unchanged. The principle is thus maintained by public shopping on the basis of tenders, either a closed invitation to a previous preselection or a general invitation. The bill then outlines a number of new methods of shopping, such as competitive tenders and innovations, which are flexible shopping practices with negotiation opportunities. New creation cooperation allows buyers and bidders to work together on new products that are not already present in the market in order to promote greater wealth in the community. A competitive invitation is a shopping process that is useful for services or products requiring changes or designs, e.g. for complex purchases of products, meditation services, and a variety of advice services. The bill then includes streamlining regulations and increasing flexibility in the implementation of public purchases. Also, interpretations of previous rules are established because of a range of prognostic factors that have been developed in recent years. For example, in the bill, there is a clearer set of agreements between public members and internal agreements. It is important for the public to be able to cooperate in providing legal services for the public. However, it is important that such cooperation does not lead to competition disorders. A balance must be made between the interests of public citizens by planning their services and at the same time ensure that companies receive fair market access. This emphasizes the choice of a spare, service, or job to be chosen in terms of the best ratio between prices and quality. This means that prices are no longer the main premise. The quality, environmental protection, social goals, and innovations will be seen at the same time as they focus on the cost of living in the stock market. This reduces the relevance of the price-based valforsenda, although it remains permitted to be used. The use of taxes must always be significant. To simplify their public shopping and implementation, a change is made at the beginning of a shopping process that volunteers will only have to make their own proper declaration as they confirm that the necessary requirements are met. However, the offerer who eventually receives a government contract in a shopping process will still have to account for all such data when a decision to make a choice is made. This change greatly reduces the cost of writing companies, which do not have to provide a number of data and documents at the beginning of each shopping process for proof. The bill is also designed to facilitate SMEs to provide tender and medium-sized oers. As a result, buyers are encouraged to divide contracts into smaller deals instead of offering everything at once when it is possible to promote competition. There are also rules on maximum financial requirements, i.e. that the requirement for your own money must normally be no more than a double sum of the budget of the contract for the benefit of smaller and medium-sized enterprises. It is important to make smaller companies more able to compete for business with the government. In simple ways, you can do so, as these examples show. The bill contains regulations that further allow publicisation to take into account environmental, social, and innovation as I have only been on this site. This is done, not by means of certain purchases, but by giving public sources an opportunity to highlight the above points in their shopping habits. I have also mentioned that social viewpoints can be considered there, and in addition, buyers may be allowed to make special signals for certification, job or service taking special account of the environment or social objectives as long as the candidates and the characteristics of the tag relate to the implementation of the contract and comparable signs are accepted. The bill examines fewer exceptions from the general value of shopping regulations. Instead, a new procedure is presented that can be used for specific health, social, and cultural services. There is a higher limit of commitment to tenders than for other service contracts, as well as a simpler procedure where only the purchases should be advertised in advance by public advertisements. At the same time, it will be permitted to limit access to shopping procedures for specific services to certain enterprises which meet specific requirements, e.g. Unemployed enterprises, if necessary. A respectable president. The principles given to the Kingdom Hall are, in effect, comparable to those of the current law. However, it is quite clearly stated that other government agencies, including government companies, rural and other government agencies, are permitted to use the funds agency's services in accordance with their individual needs. The main role of Kingdom Halls is a central business agency that handles shopping for government agencies in a transparent and practical way in line with the standards of shopping that have been established. There is also the need for Kingdom goods and services to be used by Kingdom citizens to care for uniform purchases and to investigate the common needs of the Kingdom. A respectable president. To this end, I suggest that the bill be at the end of this discussion referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u79	A respectable president. I want to use this opportunity to celebrate this bill in particular. Secretary of finance. This is one of the important things we need to finish. Hv. This has been adopted by a legal committee for the entire ultimatum and followed by official purchase laws, but it is a major failure. Some media have published a careful discussion on this point, but indeed the Morning Press, as well as other media, called attention to this. Why is it important that public shopping laws and services be carried out? There are many reasons. First of all, we're supposed to treat the public tax money well. There are no grammatical reasons why we do not offer out shopping for goods and services. There are a number of cases where agencies have saved a lot of money by going that way. It is, in fact, incomprehensible that this was not a general rule. I'm very pleased with how much I love it. The secretary of finance has handled these matters. He has set up a special group in which non - U.S. companies who are accustomed to shopping in a private market have made good evaluations, as well as suggestions for improvement. I'm assuming those improvements are in the bill. And so has the highest. A financial minister set up a special job that he was referring to because the system has not been working as it is supposed to be working. We've seen it there, and the highest. The minister mentioned it in his talk, the tremendous amount of savings on such items as computers and paper, and other such things, which is, in the vast majority of homologous products that are of course to be offered. But we are in this peculiar position, a respectable president, that there is a great deal of evidence that it is a general rule in public institutions to offer out the purchase of completely uniform products, e.g. Like electricity, phones, paper, computers, etc. It is now impossible to say that the Agency is not all willing or not interested in buying the Kingdom Hall. Among other things, Kingdom Halls have held large conferences about these things. The same is with the Ministry, but there is a need for follow-up in public institutions. I'm not going to have a material discussion about the bill in any other way, but I'm happy that the first thing I'm happy about is the most. One minister noted that these purchases must be electronic. It's funny when you start looking at things that you don't have any information about the government's purchases. Of course, that is not the way it should be, but it is today. We are to make it a general rule that all public shopping is electronic. This has resulted in great success in the nations that have gone that way. Also, simplifying the system is important. For example, the framework in which we have been involved has not worked as it should, and one of the reasons is the misunderstanding. It is also this way, a respectable president, that the public institutions that have assembled in order to offer out purchases have been reassigned. I hope that when the bill becomes law, and we have to let it become a law, it will be quite clear, like the highest. Minister mentioned, that organizations can come together and provide factors like, for example. the ones I mentioned earlier. I am also glad that this is a priority for enabling SMEs to be active members of this market. In particular, the competition is being referred to. Of course, we must not act in such a way as to allow any major contact, no matter who it is, to enter a kind of monopolyism because of its size. There's something known in this environment. That is what we need to consider. V.E.G. Minister mentioned the medication. There we have taken steps. In my day as health minister, I took steps to work better with the North countries in increasing shopping. A code of laws was arranged a few years ago, but people have mentioned that it was not designed to make public purchases possible in this way, i.e. in cooperation with others, e.g. Foreign hospital. However, this is shown if, for example, you are looking at interviews in the media. The president of Kingdom Halls, who is likely the most familiar person, has mentioned that this may be possible, but it is not possible to have been ready or not to go to that job to make it happen. However, they were placed in a place of defense, similar to the highest. The minister referred to, to ensure competition. It must be made sure that no one, whether inside or outside, is in a position of superiority, and others cannot compete with it. It must be the nature of the case to look to the factors as well. When it comes to drugs and such products, we also need to consider the safety of the people of the land, which is extremely important. I shouldn't have to argue with that any further. In brief, Mr. Honorable President, I would like to thank you at the highest. Minister for representing this case. This is one of the things we need to finish. We shouldn't have anything to do with it in case of an emergency. Government senators do not spend all the time in the Senate abusing their new President's meeting board. As I mentioned earlier, we've put Iceland record in this council. There people are calling for a discussion. Here's the deal. Where's what? Generals? Where are they? [[Up top: "Far home."]] There's one here. One down. General Assembly member. You'd think so if you'd already called for prime signs that they were here to discuss the matter, and there's a room packed with government senators. It's not. They're gone from the scene. But they took advantage of the recent President's conference board, and for today it was 21 and a half hours, I guess it's now 24 hours, in the President's conference board. A respectable president. There's nothing wrong with the President's conference board here, and there's no one to talk about it. This is, of course, an intolerable saying, and people are clean and able to work against the interests of the people by joining the legislature, as has been done. It's a little surprised that the bill goes to what? Economic and business committees, but not why. The budget board. This may be a custom, but some knowledge has been built up in the ground. The budget because we have taken up this matter of our own individuality in connection with the work of the economy group, because many of us were both in the economy and in the wake. The budget and we've tried this entire terms and will continue to try to find ways to make better use of the taxpayers. This is the best and simplest way to do it. But the key point is that the matter will be resolved. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. Of course, legal committees are willing to cover our scales, for this is a national agreement. I miss the honor of the President not seeing anything at all. Government senators discuss this important matter, with the exception of a respectable president, for those who watch, of course. paritaprevir Although we are basically at odds with politics, the Árnadóttir Þóra Auradóttir, a civilist and a good senator. I'm glad to hear it. A senator is here, but I'm surprised by the talks that have been held at the moment. When it comes to introducing this national agreement, those who are in positions of government are lost and trolled.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u80	A respectable president. I want to thank you for a good speech on the importance of it. It's the fact that it is, I'd like to say, a wide pot broken in public purchases. This is a challenge. They need more attention than they have received. I'm not saying that they were not being treated. I'm not saying that we've followed just enough of the changes we've made in technology and in our ability to make better use of the information we've done. As we begin to do so, we will see that we can handle both taxes better and be more effective in more ways, as I have only been on the inside. In public shopping, many goals can be looked to, since the greatest crisis must always be one or the most controlling and immediate factor, by changing work practices. The recent examples of our computer purchases, as well as the photocopying process, where we offered 125 boards of photocopies, show that the State has not been maximising its potential for shopping. The other side of it is that the state cannot appear in all matters as one huge buyer who buys all at once and by such a march can destroy the markets in Iceland. That's not what we're talking about. We are more talking about making plans, making plans for shopping, looking ahead of time, gathering the prices and asking them out. The electronic management and electronic information can play a key role here. We saw in the computer shops that it was difficult to collect information from the management system on what had been purchased. However, the results of the computer purchases were that we received by offering more than 400 computers, a small percentage of the public's total computer purchases, 27% better price than most known in the government system. If we had compared it with a recent example of computer purchase prices, we would have received more than half the price, and in some cases I suspect that we have received computers on this clearance at 1/3 and even less than 1/3 of what the government had previously paid in private institutions for comparable computers. So here's a lot of work to do. This, in some cases, makes it possible for responsible men to make a difference. A key to opening up our resources to participate in international shopping is also important. The electronic shopping process is of vital importance. All measures to provide SMEs with access to the public business are also very important steps. This case is full of timely changes we need to complete at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u81	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the termination of the law on the Farmer's Pension Fund, No. 12/1999, with subsequent changes. Since the entitlement of the law, the Farmer's Penitentiary has worked with the objective and organization that distinguishes in law No. 129/1997, of the related insurance rights and the work of pension funds, with subsequent changes, of funds and approved for them. The current fund laws require authorization for state funds to pay the remuneration of farmers' financial funds. From the 1970's fund office, a total of or whole contributions were made against a fund of funds provided by each year's budget and calculated on the basis of price paid under the domestic contract. After the collapse, contributions from the state fund to the pension fund were removed in resources, and from the beginning of 2013 onward, the payment for the pension fund has been fully paid by sources of funds, as is generally true of those who are engaged in employment or independent work. In view of these changes in predecessors, there is no reason for specializing the fund. In 1st. The bill is suggested that the Farmer's Penitentiary Act be removed from January 1, 2017. Two. is suggested that the current management of the fund take the initiative in adapting the fund's terms of law No. 129/1997, on the related insurance of pension rights and the operation of pension funds, with subsequent changes, allowing the changes to be made to finance and economic ministers to be accepted no later than October 1. Thus it is assumed that the fund will be confirmed as soon as the law fails on January 1, 2017, and that a new government will take over on the basis of a proven agreement for the fund, while the representative of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs will be removed from the management of the fund in the violation of the law. In the 3rd. it is suggested that the state's budget guarantees the expenses of a pension payment on a donor born in 1914 or before or at the expense of pension pay to his or her spouse. These are acquired rights of a bankmate or of his partner as a state's guarantee, but the financial expenses due to the responsibilities of a responsible student are estimated to be over 10 million. K. During 2016, by 14.7 million in 2015. In the end, there's a fourth. The bill suggested that the law be accepted already. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u82	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in the insurance policy laws and the business of pension funds. The bill includes changes in the investments rights of pension funds and others who receive pay for insurance protection on the basis of the law. One of the main indicators of the bill is that it be proposed to be based on a so - called rational rule in investments that highlight four factors. First, it is recommended that funds should always be used for investment purposes. This is a principle that has so far been brought about by the laws of the law in a clear way. Second, it is recommended that funds and other insurance issues that interfere with commitments should be reviewed. The rule reflects the need to face long - term and to deal with the uncertainty that is inevitable is to share funds between the same profession working people and the pensioners over a period of well over a half century. On the basis of current laws, the funds of the funds should be brought up in view of the best available options at any given time, which refers to a risk management point based on the price change in the market over a relatively short period of time. It is suggested that this view be replaced by the long - term properties of long - term commitments. Third, based on appropriate analysis of safety, quality, financial status, and overall benefit is recommended. The requirements of the current law do not directly prepare investment decisions, but it is reasonable to clearly separate that based on an appropriate analysis of information should be made. Fourth, it is proposed that the importance of risk distribution and the requirement for a pension fund to look to the risks of each individual property in the Chemistry and its impact on the overall risk of the museum, as well as the risks of individual property and property groups. This ensures that pension funds have a wide range of assets to prevent compression and collection of risks in the archives. These fundamental factors are basically in line with OECD rules of best practice in the investments of pension funds and are expected to provide a pension fund to the SEC report on how to meet these core criteria. Substantial boundaries, i.e. The maximum investment of the funds of individual assets or property groups and of holdings of certain publishers or groups of publishers, which include the minimum requirements for distribution of possessions. However, the minimum requirement is suggested to be changed somewhat to simplifyed, and to ensure that the pension funds have the appropriate access to property and risk management in accordance with the above rules when the minimum requirement escapes. This changes the format of the limitations and is made clearer, including by dividing the rules into several articles, and terms are consistent with the terms used in other legislation on the security of the financial market. It should be noted that there was a significant discussion in the Committee that prepared the bill on the right to clear up the sources of pension to an investment in an individual publisher permanently from 15% to 20% of the publisher's size, but for some time it has been tried to make temporary contributions to the sources of pensions to have up to 20% of share in partnerships, but with this temporary source that was released through the previous year's tournament, it was attempted to make pensions possible to participate in the restoration of the world's economy in the wake of collapse. This bill assumes that temporary sources will not be replaced, and this is based on the fact that these assets can be risky, especially because of their limited sellability and their potential loss risk. On the other hand, there may be evidence to extend the warrant, which is largely viewed by smaller companies and funds, and it is requested that the Parliament and the committee involved take this part for a special consideration. The bill assumes that the limitations of capital investments in property categories will be determined based on the specific percentage of total property rather than the proportion of cleaner assets to pay a pension according to the last effort ever investigated or reviewed by an accountant, as is currently being done. This will give you a better view of the financial status of the fund at any given time. Companies mean the value of all the investments of a pension fund at any given time. This will include detailed risk management guidelines. Most of the requirements have been made in the Commission's recommendations, but it should be clearly stated in the law. Finally, the pension fund is expected to be allowed to lend stock to the specific conditions met. This is a lipby step that offers pension funds an opportunity to increase yields without any major risks, and it is considered to include a limited proportion of pension funds and that only stocks will be paid against adequate guarantees. Finally, when preparing the bill, there have been a number of counts to see if the business of the pension fund in the Icelandic financial market will be considered desirable, especially for competitive reasons. For a long time, the pension fund was inert stockholders in companies, but now that the pension funds are directly and indirectly about 40 to 45% of the stocks registered in Copenhagen, the pension funds have been controlled more effectively. Granted, because of the financial crisis, the situation of living has been created, and the survival of the pension fund is expected to increase as their resources grow. The first step toward that was taken in the second half of our last year, and this year we have had access to extracurricular investments for the pension fund. In spite of all of this, I believe that there is good reason to consider whether or not to take special action due to the increased activities of the pension fund, and I intend to consider it as a further consideration as a result of an incident, to put it in a formal direction. We can't overlook the fact that there are new situations that require discussion when the pensions grow this much and quickly, as we have seen happening in recent years at markets with written stocks. It might be said, in some respects, that similar things are relevant at unattainable markets. But in the case of the pension fund, it is a large part of all registered stocks in this country, it is only normal for humans to stay by. Among other things, I refer to the fact that not long ago large pension funds were publicly published and expressed interest in making financial companies. Before we are too far in this development, I believe that there is a reason for us to pause and discuss how, for example, it might be possible for the pension fund to be a very large depositors that would be systematicly important to us, take it as an example, while they are the main owners of the market. This calls for discussion and special consideration. So, Mr. President, I suggest this matter be referred to a second issue. and the Economic and Business Committee to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u83	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister is here making a very big case and handled just a few matters of opinion that we must discuss. I am the opinion, speaking of urgent matters that we have to complete before elections, that it is absolutely necessary and absolute priority that the pension fund begins to invest more in foreign lands. Last time I saw them, they had 3,200 billion and only 20% of them are in foreign property. For this opinion, there are many reasons, first of all, just simple risk distribution, Iceland and I are here with our work, our home, and most of our possessions, and we are not supposed to have our pension rights in the same basket. That doesn't mean, as many would like to interpret, that I have a lack of faith in the Icelandic economy or in the Icelandic crown. It has nothing to do with it, it's a long way from. It's just a simple stunt distribution, especially because of what Ásgeir Jónsson economist and his partner have pointed out in this assessment, the obvious fact that when we expand our spendings, much of the money we buy from abroad. Then we come to a financial lock. It is important that we inform people who own these assets and that they are aware that this is a long - term investment. In the long run, good fruitage is important. With all due respect for short-term swings, it's about us being here with our investments for decades. This all hangs out with what's at the highest. Minister of the Committee on Development in the Icelandic economy and the evasion of major investors, such as pension funds, which are the natural largest investors. That's all they can do. They now have to invest some 200 to 300 billion dollars each year, and we're changing the rules so that we put more money into the pension fund, and it's not gonna be 200 to 300 billion, and it's gonna be more. Therefore, we need to use this arrangement to help young people find housing, and we are to secure the special means. I am happy to see the initiative from young people. A young economist, Kristófer, whom I don't remember now whose son is, has written about this on the Web site famous. It is important that we now make it clear that we have some of the ideas presented there so that young people will be able to provide housing. We're strengthening this system along the way. So is trouble. The Economic and Business Committee bill, which has been given an excellent mountain, and I'm the first transporter to do it. It's based on a bill as a matter of course. A former senator, our friend Pétur Blöndal, wrote in his day to clearly define that the pension fund is property of funds and that the funds are to come directly to their governments. It is important that we open up the pension fund in such a way that funds partners have better and clearer information about the value they possess, which properties they own there, and that they also have access to governments in a simple way as expected in the bill, that they choose the entire government. It would be possible for them to choose a section of the directors, and we would work to further the financial foundation directly. It will be as good as having people vote for their direct agents, but then we also need to secure and contribute to these rights and to keep track of what is going on in their pension fund. I'm not going to extend the discussion. I'm glad this bill shows up, but I'm glad it doesn't matter. A panel to see in this context. It is priority that we finish the case now before we choose, ensure that pension funds can invest abroad for obvious reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u84	A respectable president. The Parliament's proposal for this is followed by a search for Generalis clearance to confirm for Iceland on the basis of nine decisions made by the joint EEA Committee on a change in IX. Annex to the EEA Convention on recording details of specific types relating to the European Commission and financial monitoring policies. At the same time, a search is made to confirm the agreement of the switch between the EFTA Treaty for the establishment of a surveillance centre and the court on the role and authority of the EFTA Agency in the area of financial monitoring. This is the first of the types that deal with financial market surveillance. Their uptake in the EEA Convention is the basis for the continuation of active participation in EFTA countries within the EEA in the internal markets of financial services. In recent years, some 180 types of recordings have been made in this appendix. The first section contains 31 types, of which this synonym is consulted for permission to verify 19 of them in the contract. There are types that require legal adjustments to be introduced into Icelandic legislation. A respectable president. This is a case that has been under way since 2012. The General knows well how to prepare for this, but the Foreign Affairs Committee has been regularly informed about the progress of the case. The state of the matter has then been explained by the annual reports of the Foreign Minister to the Parliament on foreign and international matters. The proposal to adopt the EEA contract can be attributed to a review in the European Union following the financial crisis and the implementation of financial markets. This review led to the establishment of three new surveillance agencies in a European financial market. They began working at the beginning of 2011 and are the cornerstones of the changes that followed the crisis. These three institutions are: the European Bank Control Agency, the European Penitentiary Agency and the European Emergency Insurance and Penitentiary Fund. In addition to that, the European System Risk Management Board is operating, but it does not have the authority to make decisions that bind parties on the market. Together, they are made up of surveillance agents in the Member States together with a European financial market monitoring system. The aim of the system is to ensure stability of financial markets, the concerted use of financial activities in the internal markets and the closer cooperation between financial monitoring of Member States. The Common European institutions must work closely with each Member State's monitoring institutions, but there is reason to stress that the system assumes that daily financial and markets will remain in their hands. With some simple information, it can be said that the panEuropean institutions have a primary policy to play a role by supporting and strengthening the position of the administration of the Member States on the basis of recommendation and advice. However, when another is fully developed, it is expected that in some exceptional circumstances the European Union can exert itself individually in its own field, in a binding way toward both management and financial companies in the European Economic Areas. It is both a form of research and penalties. In fact, they have never been used, but they are similar to those in competitive situations. Thus, when discussions began over the recording of the integrated monitoring system in the EEA Convention in 2012, it was clear immediately that, in certain cases, it may be possible to test whether the surveillance warrants of the European institutions are the same as our administration. In the opinion of two law professors, Björg Thorarensen and Stefánsson Motorsson, who were looking for these reasons, a detailed explanation was made for the requirements for adaptation of this system within the EFTA-short EEA Convention if it could be introduced correctly by a administrative value. It was found that adaptation of the types would be a great test for the definition of the Constitution, but it should be possible to work on the basis of the two support systems of the EEA Convention. When their ratings were made, there was no evidence of how the requested procedure would be adapted to the EEA. In view of this conclusion, however, Iceland's main focus was to achieve an adjustment based on the two supporting system. After a long, tight discussion, it resolved in the end and was sealed at a meeting of the EFTA secretary of the economy and the European Union on October 14, 2014, when a joint declaration on the main issues of the monitoring system's uptake in the EEA Convention was adopted. The common agreement is based on the two support systems of the EEA Convention, which includes full access to the integrated surveillance systems operating in the internal market. In addition, all binding decisions to the EFTA countries in the EEA, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein will be taken from the EFTA monitoring facility and can be carried out under the EFTA Court. In both cases, these are operating institutions under the contract that Iceland is involved in. However, it is considered that European monitoring agencies will be permitted to direct queries and references to parties in the EFTA countries without any binding effect. In all cases close consultation and cooperation are expected between the EU monitoring institutions and the EFTA monitoring centre. In order to ensure that the results reflected in the above agreed agreement and that its implementation fully harmonizes with the core criteria developed in theoretical coverage and prior opinions, the government has used counseling advice from Skúli Magnússon, regional judge and judge at the University of Iceland's School of Legal Affairs for the management of the system at the EEA Convention. He has also produced an opinion on administrative privileges for the implementation of certain new EU types for financial monitoring in the EEA Convention printed as a package XI with the proposal. A respectable president. Commenting on the synopsis recommended here, it is noted that the preparation of these types, financial monitoring at the European Union scene, made in decisions sought for permission to adopt in the EEA Convention, and the proposed adjustment of the legislation on that basis. There is also a report on the administrative prognostication of adaptation rights of the Community monitoring organisations that the EFTA protocol, negotiations on adaptation and impact in this country. It is proposed that decisions made by the Parliament's resolution proposal should be made at the last meeting of the EEA Committee for a summer break. Normally, the approval of the Generals in similar cases has not been sought until a decision has been made to the joint EEA committee. However, by the fact that agreements on the adaptation and recording of financial market surveillance have already been under way for four years and it is strongly felt that the decision to record their recording can become valid as early as after its introduction, the Parliament's resolution is sought for the Alward warrant to confirm the decisions made by the European Commission. This has the significance of the decision that the Committee does not have to make a administrative notice, but it will help to speed the decision between here and anywhere else in the European Economic Area. Also taking into account the progress of discussions and preparation for recordings in this field and regularly being arranged at meetings with the experts involved. A respectable president. The preparation of this case has taken a long time, both in discussion with our partners in EFTA, but also in the European Commission. In all places, governments have endeavored to make good work, and they have called together the most skilled experts, especially with the release of the existing governmental instruments, and they have required adjustment to meet the standards of governance. Governments have also been a source of enlightenment. The General Department of Foreign Affairs on the Issue's Progress in a regular way. In addition, stakeholders have observed the situation. I hope that the synopsis proposal recommended here will be treated well at the High Council and that a broad political agreement will be able to address its payment. The Ministry of Economics is then working on the implementation of legislatures. It contains a number of law-employment measures, including a set of specifics for official control of financial activities under the European Economic Area Convention. Plans estimate that these bills could be placed before the high Council this fall. As such, I suggest, a respectable president, that the Senate resolution proposal will be followed by this discussion referred to a second discussion and why. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u85	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalise the European Economic Area No. 2/1993. The reasons for the changes presented here are that the new accounting 38c has been added to the EEA Convention, requiring a change of 117. in the main part of the deal, but that law has the legal value of this country. Accounting 38c includes an agreement between EEA/EFTA countries and the EU on their continuing contributions to the EEA building fund for the next seven years. As it is known, the EEA/EFTA countries from the beginning have made financial contributions for the EEA Convention to the state of the internal market that is economically restricted. The EU's position is that it is an integral part of participation in internal markets. The EEA's position in EFTA has always been to emphasize that no legal commitment to the countries rests on such donations. Thus, there is a temporary arrangement. This is the sixth agreement on these contributions, so it is not the first time that the matter comes to the attention of the Generals. This time, as before, the EU made a very high demand for additional contributions, which were rejected by the EEA/EFTA countries. For these reasons, the discussion took much time, as before. For the EFTA countries from the beginning, it would be kept to a minimum of the increase in donations. As a result of the discussion, the EEA countries within EFTA agreed to an increase of about 11%, which includes nearly 100 million. K. each year for Iceland, based on current national productions and gangs. The increase in prices is considerable from 2009, but the total contribution in Iceland is expected to be $75 billion over the entire period of seven years. It should be noted that in addition to this agreement the EU Convention on toll-free import protocols on certain marine products for the EU has been renewed. Moreover, there is a significant increase in the number of foods negotiated by the canned codfish. The door is about to open a discussion of how these funds will be set up in the priority range set out in the book. Iceland will focus on projects that include climate issues with special emphasis on promoting the increased use of land for house warming. There is hope that a few countries will put such projects first, making an opportunity for an Icelandic company and Icelandic knowledge. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, the bill be referred to why. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u86	A respectable president. As a result of this resolution, the Generals' warrant is issued to confirm the contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for Fishing in Icelandic and British jurisdiction in 2016, which was completed by letter exchange in Thorsve, and in Reykjavík, on December 22, and on 31st of 2015. These agreements stipulate the authority of parties to fish seafood in each other's jurisdiction in 2016. It doesn't change a year ago. According to the contract, a small-eyed ship is authorized to hunt 30 of you. trains of Icelandic fables on the furturbing belfth, 2016-2017, provided that the allowed total power will be 500 you. trains, otherwise the portion of a poor man, set 5% of him. Also allowed to catch up to 10 pulses on the furturbing slopes of 2016-2017. trains of fur in Icelandic fishing jurisdictions obtained by treaties in the French and Greenlandic governments. The treaty also allows for a mutual warrant for each party's fishing on the carbons and Norwegian-isleven herring within the jurisdiction of the other in 2016. Icelandic ships are authorized to hunt on as many as 1,300 trains of macroil and 2,000 trains of the Hahltland Islands in an ever - increasing legal record in 2016. The contract went into force on December 31, 2015, and will have its final value when it has been announced that the administrative conditions of each country have been met. Before this deal was made on the basis of national contract from 1976 on the information of the Faeroes to fish Iceland's jurisdictions, it was decided that skilled ships were allowed to catch 5,600 trains of bottom fish by Iceland in 2016. However, the overall power of cod will be no more than 1,900 trains, the total segments of a cone no more than 650 trains, and no fishing will be allowed on the hatches or grays. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that this proposal be referred to a second discussion and why. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u87	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 197/2015 on the change of I. An Annex to the EEA Convention on Health of Animals and Plants and in the Convention on Extra Products of Animals The protocols tell you what situations to dispose of extra products from animals in order to prevent risk to human and animal health. Additional products from animals can also be used for food and for various purposes, such as cosmetics and pharmaceuticals. It is then recommended that the operators be obliged to take additional products from animals for treatment in companies and centres under official supervision. According to the EEA Convention, Iceland today employs older EEA rules on the same issue but the regulations set out in this issue are based on the assessment of the activities of the older ones. The setting for this class remains unchanged, but the new directive is intended to reduce the burden of stakeholders, make the rules clearer, and eliminate uncertainty about, for example, the principles of the rules, thus ensuring safety of the food chain. The implementation of the Regulation calls for legal adjustments in the country and is assumed to be the highest. Marine and agricultural Ministers provide guidelines for changes in animal diseases laws and prevention, slaughter and slaughtering laws and the law on food, fertilizer and seeding in the current council. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a legal adjustment in this country, it was taken under administrative notice. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in which the decision takes place so that the government will be removed foreordained. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u88	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 229/2015 about the change in XX. Annex to the EEA Convention on Environment and Membership of industrial and related emissions directives. The directive combines older products of pollution taken up in the EEA Convention and implemented in this country. This is a revision and updates of older types in order to enhance the clarity of the rules. The directive contains integrated contaminating issues in specific pollutants and goes beyond previous directives. The directive is based on a approach to take into account the overall environment, i.e. air, water, and soil pollution Its main indicators include decisions in the best available manufacturing methods and instruments used in certain activities to minimise pollution and production of waste from the work. The induction calls for a local legal adjustment and is assumed to be the highest. Environment and resource administrators provide the bill for changes in commitment and pollution laws for the current council. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a legal adjustment in this country, it was taken under administrative notice. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u89	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 230/2015 about the change in XX. Annex to the EEA Convention on Environment and Member States of the Convention on Transmission of Waste. The aim is to improve the follow-up and monitoring of waste transport and prevent illegal waste transfers between countries. A risk assessment-based surveillance programme should be established. Effective monitoring, follow-up or observation is required. The surveillance report for the EFTA should be submitted annually. The induction calls for a local legal adjustment and is expected to be the highest. Environment and resource administrators provide the bill for changes in commitment and pollution laws for the current council. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a legal adjustment in this country, it was taken under administrative notice. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I suggest, a respectable president, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u90	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 252/2015 on change of II. Annex to the EEA Convention on technical regulations, standards, testing and certification, and entering the contract of agreements for practices which produce germinators. The Regulation requires that the germinators be evaluated before they start working on specific requirements to be met for the purpose of having a permit. The cost of having a permit falls on the producers, but there is no significant expense. Food agencies will monitor this activities and will take into account the size of companies in the monitoring programme, while the manufacturers of the country are small. The induction calls for a local legal adjustment and is assumed to be the highest. A marine and agricultural minister will provide a bill for changing food laws during the current council. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a legal adjustment in this country, it was taken under administrative notice. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I suggest, a respectable president, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u91	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 293/2015 on the change in XXII. Annex to the EEA Convention on Social rights and enter the Convention Directive on annual accounts, Compatibility accounts and related reports of certain types of enterprises. The directive covers the annual accounts of a set type of partners and leaves them at the level of the earlier annual bill. The Directive also implements the rules for kits that were previously included in an older directive. Hence, there is one directive that deals with annual accounts and balance accounts of a particular type. The aim of the Directive includes reducing the administrative costs of SMEs, improving the company's business environment and improving the quality and controlability of published information. The induction calls for a local legal adjustment and has the highest. Industrial and business secretary has provided a bill for the current Parliament to change the annual accounts law. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a legal adjustment in this country, it was taken under administrative notice. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in which the decision takes place so that the government will be removed foreordained. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u92	A respectable president. This body of Congress offers a search for the permission of the Generals to validate the conversion of Rome with the establishment of the international criminal court, which has already been passed on by law no. 43/2001. The Court has the responsibility to judge the cases of individuals suspected of the most serious crimes against mankind. mass murder, crimes against humanitarianness, war crimes, and crimes against peace. The establishment of the Court was certainly one of the most important contributions to human rights and peace in the world since the United Nations organization, which had been under way since the end of World War II. Iceland has set up in a group of Western countries, who loyally support the work of the International Court of Justice, including the tenth State, to validate the release of Rome itself. In Rome's release, it is stated that one of the crimes for which the court has a jurisdiction is entitled "crime Crimes or Crimes Against Peace, " by permission of the President. However, when the release of Rome was approved in 1998, there was no further meeting on the type of crime, which includes crimes that are politically vulnerable to several countries. This is because the punishment for crime against peace may come upon the leaders of the states. In 2010, however, in Kampala, Uganda, a revised convention of Rome release has reached an agreement on the definition and recording of crimes against peace in Rome by the so - called kampala conversion. The definition of crime against peace that was approved there reads, by permission of the president: ▪ Plan, preparation, start or conduct an attack on the part of an individual who is in position to monitor or manage a political or military operation of the state, i.e. An attack by the nature, severity, or extent of action includes a clear violation of the United Nations Convention. A definition of what is considered the above definition of crime against peace was also accepted, which, among other things, shows that it is an attack, by the permission of a president, of a state of military authority against a sovereign state, of peace or of political independence of another State, or of an alternative method that is not compatible with the objectives of a United Nations covenant, to be chosen. In accordance with Member States of the International Court of Justice, the Court's jurisdiction against peace will not be effective until at least thirty states have validated the Kampala change. Already 28 states have validated it. Iceland, therefore, still has the opportunity to be in the first 30 countries to validate the changes and thus contribute to their implementation. The full value of the Kampala change in Iceland calls for legal adjustments and is already under way by the State Department of State. The bill there is expected to be prepared for contributions at the next assembly. A respectable president. According to these words, I would like to suggest that this resolution will be followed by this discussion in a later discussion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u93	V.E.G. President. I recommend a proposal for a synopsis of policy and mental health action programme until four years. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. A health minister for responding promptly and having worked hard to see that this proposal would be ready as soon as possible. In some respects, certain measures have already been implemented. We were several members of a group who made this suggestion earlier during the election period with a synopsis proposal, and it would be a pleasure if we were to accept the proposal for this council. The proposal suggests the primary objective of mental health care, which is an increased well - being and better mental health of the country and that acts as a more active member of the community of people with a short or long - term psychiatric condition, regardless of their habitat. Then there is a subsidiary and continuous service goal for mental - health individuals, that child - rearing conditions contribute to their well - being, and that there are no differences between individuals on the basis of mental health. Then there are 18 measures and the money spent on this project in the current year, and the next three years are 562 billion. K. This is a good start, but a lot more money needs to come to, as I will come to the conclusion of my conclusion. These 18 actions are very good. I'm just gonna go over them later. A management committee makes limited changes in this effectiveness programme, but there are some indications in a very detailed members of the Committee that follow the Parliament's decree. That is 11 pages, but it is reasonable to say that the committee took a good time to discuss the matter, resulting in an enormous number of reviews on the subject. We wanted to meet a client and discuss their comments in a committee list because we counted the comments in the vast majority of cases as good, and we review how we see either that there is room for them within the program or that they need to be looked at in the long term. In recent years, there has been a great awakening in the discussion of mental health. It comes primarily from groups of people who have had mental disorders or who are on the side of people with psychiatric disorders. They are the groups that have brought up the discussion of the importance of mental health problems, the need to improve our ministry, our attitude, and the need to consider them as a community. Today, the proportion of medical funds that go to mental health care is not consistent with the proportion of those who consult the health care professional's means of doing so on the basis of a number of psychiatric issues. It is with us that we are spirits and chemicals, and there are more and more studies that indicate that spiritual distress affects physical disorders. They are to act well enough and have unbiased society, since we are not ashamed to suffer spiritually but to view it as any other problem, taking it for granted to seek help and obtain it at high prices or incomprehensibles. It is important to establish such a change in society. I believe this transition is becoming, but we still have some land. These are matters that concern all of us. We all know this from our personal experience or from someone close to us that our spiritual well - being, our mental health, is a basis for being a rotten person in our community and for being able to be present for others as well as for themselves and for the benefit of others. This is an enormously important group of paintings and, as I say, I would like to repeat my thanks to the highest degree. A health minister for completing his mission. I'm going to list the projects here, even though there's a little list. Under the aim of continuous and integrated services, it is a procedure to establish a law that states and rural communities agree to the implementation of integrated services to mental - health individuals, including the setting of a mental - health team in cooperation with health care and community. Medical services are also suggested to be available at clinics and clinics that perform health care according to the assembly and size of services. Then there is a project called the 'Tolls' for the children to be introduced into the welfare services, which is then the health, social, and educational system. This is an important task to reduce the movement of a mental health problem between generations, since when an adult is ill, they have a very serious impact on the child's life and the ability to develop. I received a video during the day on the mental - health website about whom to help Jesper. It describes a small boy's haircut in the form of an alcoholic's mother, who suffers from mental illness. They live with her two siblings in their home, and this is easy for them. He goes to the nursery, and this, of course, is in the neighborhood of his children, where children are given service that we need to be especially alert to their feelings and to their symptoms when children are dealing with things and responsibilities that no child should have. It is all of us as a community to take responsibility when parents are in a position to be unable to do so. It needs to help, but children too need special attention and help, for otherwise there is a great danger of moving from generation to generation, and research shows how to reduce this risk by means of progressive work and support for their children. It is just one of the tasks to establish a routine mental and mental education program for staff in social and health care and training in simple intervention. There is also an extended service in the BUGL walk department. A team should be established to determine whether telecommunication services can be used to treat people for mental disorders. In this country, where there is more scattered settlements, there is often much limited access to home - health services and there is no room for discrimination in the community. It is suggested that knowledge be built in nursing homes to provide elderly ones with mental health problems. The ninth project is designed to meet the cumulative needs of mental - health professionals for housing and services, and then we come to the section on mental - health and prevention. It suggests that a multidisciplinary team will be established in the vicinity of their education, training, counseling, and support of parents and families. It is suggested that a team be set up to make proposals for mental - health activities in school. There is also a suggestion to screen for anxiety, depression, and trauma among children in high school and to be given appropriate support or treatment if considered at risk. In the plan is suggested from what? paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, who had a special pact proposal for screening among children because of anxiety, depression, and depression. Then a program for induction of criticism will be suggested in order to reduce the suicide rate of young people. This is a chapter on prejudice and discrimination, and there are five measures: The finding will be effective ways to reduce prejudice against people with psychiatric disorders, providing guidance for the media on how to deal with mental health disorders without the development of prejudices, that state and rural society will advise people who have come out of work because of chronic mental disorders to work in their institutions, and that their mental health will be assessed on a regular basis. Finally, I consider this procedure to be a matter of knowledge by staff in mental - health services and patients' rights for interpretation services. There is a need to increase knowledge of rights to interpret. These are the 18 proposed actions, and we support all the operations, but we have several adjustments that I plan to make. In the detailed Committee Department, we discuss services for deaf people and hearing impaired hearing, but we received a review from the Deaf Society that, despite being deaf or severely deaf, the group who had been taken out of their homes for decades ago, even at the age of four, and at a boarding school, was not allowed to learn sign language, despite being deaf or severely deaf and was to learn traditional language, had actually been separated from family members or normal with their families, and was deprived of language. These crimes are extremely violent against these people, apart from the fact that many of the children in them were allowed to suffer various forms of violence. We were told that, in fact, the needs of these people for mental - health care have not been properly met. It should also be noted that some of the people themselves have become parents and would need help to cope with their role as parents, since they have not grown up in normal family relationships and natural relationships with their parents. We on the committee thought that we had to respond to these comments because that is enough. Now we must meet people and try to give them the help that is possible. In A.2, we suggest that one of these groups specialize in the service of deaf and deaf individuals who rely on Icelandic Sign Language for communication and suffer from mental disorders. This is important, for they also pointed out that for someone who does not understand culture and who does not know signed language, there may be misunderstandings in personal and sensitive matters, so the feelings and feelings of someone who is communicating may not be easily understood. Therefore, it is important that those who perform such services have skills in the use of signed language and can speak directly to the person. We can all imagine this. If we were to consult a psychiatrist, a psychologist, or a family doctor ourselves, and we needed to have all contact with those people through an interpreter from another culture, many things could be distorted. In these matters, it is very important when people need an individual service that the one giving them understand people's language and culture. We suggest that there, as well as the right to interpretation, be taken into account not only of the right to interpret but also of the deaf and the deaf. It was a discussion of prisoners and a lack of mental health care for prisoners. A very high proportion of inmates in Iceland have ADHD, and we have a number of mental health problems, and it's important that we meet them. We view a person's mental health as a special consideration for a prisoner. Now that laws and imprisonment are being changed, in many cases it is also important to increase the quality of health to those who are finishing a sentence and preparing for a full share in the community. This involves the transformation we have to make in EU penalties with increased emphasis on reform, since it is often that in prisons people who have not received appropriate services and assistance that would have been needed even since childhood. A social problem is that we do not help people when they need help. The number of psychologists within the medical facility is to be increased. It was a great pleasure, and it stressed to the committee that there would be an even greater need for these activities and that the growth of psychologists through early intervention would be one of the best measures to improve the mental health of a nation. Was referred to there extensively in Britain, which has been prominent in mental health care, where the increase in psychologists in health care and increased access to mental - health treatments, and this has resulted in tremendous success. It was not only psychologists who pointed to this but also other professions, especially mental - health professionals, that the proliferation of psychologists and access to inexpensive or inexpensive psychological services is of utmost importance. We'll take our minds into this. I'd like to use this opportunity, and I'm sorry that psychological services do not become increasingly involved in the payment program that is being presented at the council by the highest level. Secretary of health. And I'd like to remind you that we are some members of the Parliament who submit a plagion proposal for the free service of psychologists in high school. Such experiments have been carried out in the Academy of Education in Akureyri with great success. Young people today are living in a highly complex reality with a high level of harassment and expectations, and there is a great appeal from among young people for increased access to the services of psychologists and other professions in that area. It was also noted that mental - health professionals are not just psychologists but are numerous other classes, such as social advisers, family counselors, and so forth. It is suggested that there should be a greater number of psychologists and then also a variety of professional fleas. It is at that point when it gathers individuals with different personalities on the problem and different experiences and visions, with the best results. We urge that this course be continued. There was much discussion about waiting lists and the development of mental - health services with children. It was clear that there was not enough talk about children in the program. I have to admit, though, that I don't completely agree with that. I believe there are measures aimed at increasing child service and awareness of the paediatric state and the need for early intervention. Not only are groups of people and professionals who criticize a waiting list but it is during our study of the Kingdom Accounting program for counseling about mental - health services to young people, second and third service stages. I will not be very close to what is presented there, unless it is highly critical that there is no time for proper waiting for children to be served. Children wait very long for a service, many more than a year. That is a very high proportion of the life of a child or of childhood. We know that in the lives of us adults, waiting for necessary things can be a little difficult, but this can reduce the development of children or can adversely affect the development of children and really destroy the lives of them. Therefore, a proper waiting period is needed for children to be established according to mental - health care. There is a great deal of communication in the service phases, that there is no clear explanation, that responsibility is not always clear, and children can easily fall between systems. I'd also like to state that I think it's the best. While I want health ministers to do better, I have shown good efforts in mental - health matters. At the end of 2015, he decided to contribute 45 million. K. to improve the services of BUGL and shorten the waiting period. It is good to keep it in order that if it is just enough, it will still make a difference for a number of children. Then there is screening and early intervention. There was much discussion about the screening of the committee and the participation of the reports on when it should be performed and who should be performed. It was noted that screening should, in effect, be performed for the parents in maternal care and infant protection. It would often be the root of the problem, it would have to start out in a bad way, so it would have to come in early. Other children would be in high school, and then nurses would have general opinions in grade 1, 4 and 7. It was generally said that it would be too late to go to any top grade school. Also came from the Development and Behavior Center, which under the clinic, comments that this was a very extensive intervention, that it was a very extensive procedure, and that it was controversial for all children to be screened. If, like the British, we went through 1,001 days, which is the baby from conception to two years of age, this tremendously important formative period of individuality, and we focused more on it and got into obvious high - risk positions, we were able to achieve better results. As members of the Committee, we agree that we should look at the youngest age group on an increasing scale, but we did not want to fall away from the screening process, there was some agreement on it. However, we make the adjustment that we make the statement: "In high school. " Then children will be screened for anxiety, depression, and trauma and given appropriate support or treatment if considered at risk. We say that we need to evaluate where we can get the best results, and this operation will help our children to the best of their ability. We also change the project, wording. There we point to critical means of screening for anxiety, depression, and the effects of trauma among children. Children who need careful diagnosis should be treated according to clinical guidelines and methods of criticism. The psychiatric community stressed that we talked about clinical counsel and critical methods when talking about treatment. In most cases, we will receive their comments, considering that medical services provided according to clinical guidelines and critical methods. This is the basis for health care. It's all worked out, but we put it in there to stop the fact that when such extensive intervention is done, we must also have a proper response if children need service. Then it must be in accordance with clinical guidelines and critical methods, not with some cat washing, for it is of no value. We are also concerned about those who find refuge. It is an operation for them, and we come to the point that it is not enough just for them to arrive in the country but often becomes more difficult to find within months of the arrival of people and that they need to remain under surveillance. Here we are to ADHD and autism. It was highly critical that this was not specifically mentioned in the program. I'll agree with that. But we request that we get the information that a team of workers is about to start work that will cover the services and support for children who have abnormalities or other problems in their behaviour or are experiencing a lot of discomfort, and this is particularly ADHD. The staff shall submit the results in September, and we will say that it is important that the group complete the work as soon as possible and then follow up its proposals, as it is an assessment by the Committee that the need to perform necessary improvements in the activities of children with ADHD is required. Then we will discuss the need to add to the efficiency and rehabilitation and to increase their numbers, for mental health is one of the main causes of the incidence of disability in this country. In the conclusion, we agree with the comments made by the Government Accounting on Mental Health for Children and Youths, and we encourage them to respond to them. The range of services to be explained, increased consultation and cooperation within the whole service system, and define an acceptable waiting period for children. We say it's a very good first step, but we feel that there is still a lot of work to be done before this series of languages is set in place. In the work ahead, the Committee believes that the Ministry of Health has to take a position to increase the number of psychiatrists rather than expected in the proposal, which, in the opinion of the Committee, is key to screening and early intervention. It is urgent that the Ministry take a position on comments from the speakers and responds to them appropriately. In addition, follow-up with the objective of the synonym and immediately consider a new action programme that will take place after four years. In a new effectiveness programme, it is important that the overall policy be developed with a well defined objective and that funding be reviewed to the jury, which has been considered to be too low in view of the Committee. All members of the Committee are standing at the committee's opinion but what? Ólína In the offline of the Kjerúlf, the son of a Þorvarðardóttir was away from the hearing. Although we on the committee support the proposal and are pleased with it as a first step, as can be seen from the committee's opinion, we feel that much work lies ahead of us in order to maintain a proper outlook here on the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator, chairman of the welfare committee, Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir, for the passage. Only to read the proposal, because we're living in this fast - priced, instant-drunk community where the existence of children and teenagers has been marketed, I feel that the tone is a little bit too much that it should be taken in and not prevent. I feel that in general the suggestion to be there is something to stop the well from destroying the energy, time, and money when you're in the water. For example, I may feel that there is only one thing missing in general. We need to examine more people's interests, for they cannot be normal, and perhaps some part of our community is responsible for the growth of microorganisms in the spirit field. Is there something wrong with the community that we just need to study and study, especially with young ones? Of these children and adolescents, there is a lot of information, e.g. in a publication published each year, entitled Young People, and it is a very useful publication. I encourage the natural senator to consider it, that is very helpful. But I think we have to be a little more involved in examining people's interests today in order to spend energy, time, and money more on preventing them than always being reacting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists, and I'll agree with that. We're supposed to put more effort on prevention. I'd like to mean, though, that it's being suggested to increase the level of ethic in school, to intervene sooner. The immediate intervention is also a preventive step in itself. UNICEF has been especially on the Watch for Children, as well as the Children's Director and Child Welfare. But then it is that children's material circumstances are of vital importance. That is why there are many of us in this society who want to fight for equal and social justice, for it increases people's well - being when the gap begins. Some children are living in a kind of Gnosity, while others live by the fact that their parents struggle to feed and dress them, never being able to offer them the marketed reality of the other children. Even if he is not necessarily desirable, feelings of distress, anxiety, and everyone else develop. And so, of course, we parents are misunderstood as a child. We are experiencing a time of distress that affects our children. So I would like to use this opportunity as an equal and say that when we live in a community where we share terms and where we have a good non-profit public service, we are also under protection to create a better feeling for the citizens of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u96	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answers. The interpretation proposal includes one question - I care about all the matters coming from the state, the administrative level - which is some commitment to rural society. You can read a little about making commitments or even making financial calls to your rural society. Hv. A member of the body mentioned a wake - up call on mental - health issues. That's right. There was an overwhelming awakening of the problem, a very intense awakening to the problem, but I don't think there is much awakening about why the problem is. I think there's something missing in the motion. Because the senator disassociated himself from the analysis, I think, that's the way it is, that the first time people wait a very long time for the analysis, that I know myself active at a basic school, that is, even for a year or a half, unfortunately, so, when the diagnosis is available, the problem is solved and solved. Then just take some other step. The system is a little built up that when the analysis is available, the situation is over. It needs to be solved. For example, see chapter B on page 19. 4, with President's permission: A group will be established to make proposals for mental - health activities in schools. This alone is already there. We've got a program for life. It's something we can use. For example, put the money in it, put energy, energy, time, and money into what we are already doing. We have a special feature of life that is being taught a great deal of what is being discussed here. The result is anxiety, depression, and tragedy. It's done. There's a lot of information about it. But then nothing happens when the result is clear. That's where the system always stops somehow. In this body of Congress, there must be more work to do, to use power, energy, time, and money more in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u97	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's tips. In terms of analysis, I think there are a number of people who receive any kind of treatment, but it has, of course, been highly criticized in this country, especially by the ADHD organisations, that there is little access to drugs but to other services. So have drugs due to ADHD - extreme prejudices toward the drugs in society that have been very difficult for those who really need them because some of these drugs are also used by addicts, but they should not be the problems of those who rely on them in order to live normal lives. It's true here that there's health issues in high school and high school, and there's a lot of work going on. It may also be necessary to evaluate what is most beneficial. All the good work that takes place in school - there must be a measure of progressive communication with knowledge on what is most beneficial. Now I know this best as a player, but as a parent, just through the collapse, the elementary schools and the nursery schools played a key role in ensuring children's safety and well - being. I always feel just as grateful when I see what is really working with children, relationships with children, and development of them in my dealings with one another. I believe we are developing new generations that are much more emotional than my generation had, and thanks, in particular, to very progressive activities in the schools and to the introduction of the children's contract in this country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u98	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir ... anda presidentofwhat. The welfare committee, Sigríður, Ingadóttir, for the talk, over which she considered this proposal to be an interpretation of policies and procedures in mental health care for four years. She also considered the changes that she made. The welfare committee proposes. I think they're all very improved, as it were, and further this strategy and make it even better. I'd like to ask you what. In fact, a member of the council who was just doing so was even more concerned with each other's motives. A senator would agree with me or would it not be a vision of whether this second fine synonym would take a little bite from it or weaken it on the top of the bill? A health minister on top of health paying is not inside, and if it were not more consistent, if we are going to agree to this pactal proposal that I think we're about to make, to strengthen exactly this section of the prime minister's bill by making the decision, for example, to install money in order to install the Psychological Service there under the payment, at least to some extent. If we don't have to take these matters up a little bit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for the counter-sponsored. I think and I think that we're the majority of people on this country agree that there's a huge increase in access to psychological services. I'd like to say, "I think it's the best step." Healthcare Ministers have taken care of this wisely, i.e. starting with such things at the clinic, as he has done in his emphasis. I'm glad he starts that step there. I would have liked to see the bigger ones, but I don't think it's wise to start with the medical service. In terms of the payment program, there's a psychiatric service to be considered. This is sensitive, since the service would become a tall spending team. There is a great need for such services that people pay from their own pockets today, if they can afford them over their heads. There's discrimination in there. Of course, there are a number of people who cannot afford to seek out the necessary ministry. At the top, I'd like to say that--now I forgot, the highest. Mr President, what I was going to say. I've been talking so much here today. However, there is discrimination in those who can seek psychological service. Yes - and so there are other non-employers, non-employers, and non-employers of the Red Cross. But there is only a great jungle for people, and there is a great danger that because of costs and limited access, people will not receive appropriate services. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I also want to agree that I agree with the highest. Health Minister that it is a good first step to bring psychology services into the clinic. But I would like to reiterate my view that I feel very important that psychological expenses will be taken into the payment that patients are supposed to wear under the highest bill. Secretary of health. I'd like to direct it to what it is. A senator who's president of the court. The welfare committee, that when the committee begins to discuss that bill, it will be taken into account. At least it's my opinion that it would strengthen a good function, and I think a progressive mental - health action program would be provided if the psychological factor was further strengthened by further contributions from the funds of the state. So I would like to direct it to the Committee that it especially considered to achieve a better convergence in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u101	V.E.G. President. I thank you for the tips, and we'll discuss it in the exact conclusion that we feel that even if we celebrate what is done, we need to do much better than the lay. It is now that the payment program, which means that the change in health care income will be a review procedure on May 1 to remind me of it. I am so convinced that there we will find very great indications of that serious deficiency. The training is being taken into this payment system, but psychological services and other such services are not being taken into consideration for spiritual health. It is a very serious medical offense. By having this system, we are saying something: Mental health is only a personal problem for each individual. While physical health problems are something we make up to much of our shared funds, even though our payment is too high, we are actually telling them that if people suffer and suffer from poor spiritual distress, they are, in effect, a personal problem that must be found out by themselves. Of course, that is not the case, for mental health matters are health issues like those of one another and are often rooted in physical disorders. We need to change this system so that all of us can obtain necessary medical care, free of cost, or at the most manageable level.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u102	Mr. President. I come primarily here to celebrate our being at this place, however, to be here for a second discussion followed by the first programme, policy development, and action plan, on mental health care for four years. I thank the chairman of the welfare committee and our executive, why. Ingibjörg Sigrídídíu Ingadóttir, for her history, and I can shorten my case by referring to many of the things she said here, yet would like to open up a few things. The first thing I think we shouldn't belittle is the importance of continuing to develop a discussion of these matters so that they'll get to the surface better. That we do everything within our power, including here at the General and from the government, to discuss these matters, everything that has to do with mental health, mental health, mental disorders, mental disorders, and mental disorders, is discussed with informed, open - minded, and helpful, and in support of those who are dealing with this problem, but not vice versa, as has already been so. It is of utmost importance, and it certainly makes you happy when you see evidence that only we are now drifting in the right direction in these areas. This year and recent months and losses, for example, have been the only factor in young people's becoming more courageous and heroic and expressing their struggles with such problems rather than insinuate them. This is of utmost importance, so in the community, at work, in schools, and in families and elsewhere, this can be managed successfully. This is a widespread part of our reality, our lives, and if not all families in the country in some way and during some lifetime, some have to contend with spiritual problems. I wholeheartedly agree. That is why separating mental health and other physical health is very damaging if, along with other factors, it is involved in dealing with these problems in a different way, I do not specifically say that they are at a different rate, but it does so to a certain extent. It is painful to send such messages to people because they have this health problem that is less subsidized and shared with the community than with physical health problems. According to this, it was also a pleasure to witness to the welfare committee's work, how much interest there is in these things in society, among its professions, and, frankly, best to take initiative in their resources. The members of the council who initially moved the case here at the 2013 Convention will thank you. Thus, the opening page of the Committee's Affliction Committee, or the first one and a half pages in the Commission opinion, is one of the most handsome lists I have, almost to say, seen of this type, where there is an enormous number of guests, professionals and all sorts of visitors from all directions that came before the committee, which included a significant period of time in this case, and then a detailed statement from about 40 countries, if I recall correctly. A great many are concerned about these matters, fortunately. About the product here, i.e. The proposal as it was originally suggested and by the changes proposed by a health committee, I want to say, in itself, it is already taking effect, as it is known. V.E.G. Healthcare Ministers have fought for the emphasis on budgets that conflict with the main focus of this unsolved policy and mental action programme. No doubt she is also having a bearing on the discussion, and she has apparently added a number of professionals and stakeholders in one way or another to these matters, as reflected by the interest shown in the management committee's work in reviews and so forth. Of course, this is not a perfect plan. In practice, there is much more to the next four years of action in this area than to the rest of our policy. It's best just to admit it and say it as it is. If a person makes the suggestion and examines it, it is actually a brief introduction starting with the aims of a mental - health policy that is defined and a sub-target for a few lines, followed by the procedure itself. This was pointed to by both visitors and in reviews, and it is quite true that this work must follow up and, hopefully, with the next review of this strategy, the policy agenda and the overall policy agenda, the perspective of the group, will be much better agreed with the direct action that is to be taken, divided at any given time. There certainly is a need to continue and do better. We discussed this on a welfare committee, but there was, of course, no way for the time and circumstances to be able to do some of these basic work. Such a global conference must be born into a broad partnership. As a result, it is now one of the opening points of the action in this area to bring everyone to the board and to the integration, such as by a joint agreement made by governments and rural communities. In this context, the emphasis on mental - health services in children and adolescents is also highlighted in Kingdom Accounting. We received careful reviews and visitors from the Deaf'Society and those who cooperate with them. It is most recent to say that the committee made these comments and suggests changes, in line with the 1st figure, the letter a and b, and the 6th counts, the modification proposals of the document, the letters a, b, and c, where we make a decision regarding the specialities that the deaf and the deaf live in this respect. That special privilege must be looked to when it is rendered to them. It requires a specialised team, to ensure adequate diagnosis, treatment and assistance. This also applies to their unique status in that Icelandic signed language, their native language, is equally correct. Happily, we have been leading to laws and activities during the last term, along with other good things, so that we might mention them. But it also obligates governments to depend on making Icelandic Sign Language their native tongue. In caring for prisoners, this was discussed and examined. We view it as part of the proposal, i.e. as a mental - health team in cooperation with health care and rural areas. These are specifically listed as potential partners outside medical institutions, rural communities, and the Union of Icelandic rural society, a prison agency, and a user group. It is clear that this, though it may well be considered, we are subject to a thorough and even separate review of prisoners'positions and certainly need their support. The increase in psychologists already mentioned are the first steps in promoting psychological services at the clinic. Of course, that is very positive and timely. Much more is needed, such as in schools and high schools. It is also a proper indication that the Committee did not allow men to approach the matter by making sure of or providing for all the needs of these matters, since the growth of psychologists does not change the need for teamwork and the survival of many other groups, other professions. While this should be stressed at the same time, it is of course welcome that psychologists increase and access the country's access to such services will become easier and easier. I also have to agree with what has been discussed and what has happened. paritaprevir Þóra Árnadóttir noted that it should be taken seriously whether it is long before it is time to stop this separating at the expense of the users of psychology service. As it is today, it is obvious that economic conditions are a major source of discrimination. It's simply that an hour from a psychologist sold on a tax scale costs about 15 hours. K. It is obvious that those who need such help to hold on to weekly or even more often do not all of us easily contribute to that money. It is also true in this case that there are different health problems that are still present. With regard to the waiting list and the service of young ones, we face a very serious situation and have been doing it for a long time, although, indeed, it is merely a color to work down the long wait list. It is quite impossible that at all of the most sensitive times when the need for early assistance and intervention is the most urgent, when problems arise and arise at a young age, which they do in the vast majority of cases - I think research and statistics show that the vast majority of those with other conditions have mental or mental problems at one time or another at a time of life, feel them in childbirth or during adolescence. It is also quite clear that it can be enormously helpful to say that the rest of the person's life course is being helped. Then it is not acceptable that waiting time for service, for example, for children and teenagers to be a year, nine to eighteen months, and so on, a long period of time after diagnosis or assistance at the Development and Behavioral Institute, or a diagnostic centre. The report of the Kingdom Accounts came into this work and was very helpful for the committee to receive it. True, we had not been able to devote as much time as possible to it. Still, it was beneficial to get it out. It has very clear tips, especially on organization, management and extramarital activities and on what needs to be explained. I think everybody agrees. To some extent, efforts are being made to deal with this by offering advice on increasing cooperation and cooperation agreements and building up cross-cutting teams, but the service is, of course, highly distributed and given by many sources and in different levels. Thus, the nature of the matter must be up to a degree, for this is a very complex combination of aspects of the health system to deal with other functions, in schools, at work places, in prisons, in homes, and so forth. Not all will be driven into one organization in that regard. Then all conditions call for cooperation and good organization. Regarding early differences and early intervention, we focus on this and on the detection or searching for these problems in advance. There was much interesting and practical about these matters on the committee and on the visitors to the committee. I must say to my point of view that I may never have thought of, as if it were as simple as moving between school ladders here may be some aspect; the insecurity that it can create for a child to move from the relatively protected environment of the nursery, where children in small groups are held relatively tight, up to basic school, and then from high school to high school, can be one of the things that cause instability and instability in the lives of children and young people, and may even begin to create problems that are associated with anxiety, depression, and so forth. How important it is, then, that we handle matters in time! Regarding ADHD, many pointed out that this does not address the matter in terms of its size and severity. It noted that ADHD, of course a mental disorder, shows that about 5% of the country's children are diagnosed with this. Then we'll come back to the movies. The situation at the end of 2015 was that about 400 children were on hold for ADHD analysis at the Development and Behavioral Institute and 390 children on the waiting list for some diagnostic and counseling centre of the State. Sadly, there are no petty numbers in which there are 4,000,4500 children in each class of high school. Then we will see that there is a shockingly large group in each stream that is kept on the waiting list for analysis of its problem, which is an important first step. So far as it's said and said, it's not enough for anyone to get an analysis, it must be quite clear what takes place. For example, it is not enough that health care is open to people and that there are psychologists hired there, and men can get their first help by turning there, so that health care is under the name of the first stop of the system, they must also be aware of what follows. The problem cannot be solved by one arrival at the clinic or by obtaining analysis at the Development and Behavioral Station or State Analysis and Counseling Centre. This should only be the first step in what is being taken. However, it was also informed that the Ministry of Health has decided and may already have set up a full - time service for children with ADHD. That group is given an extensive assignment. In some respects, the matter is waiting for that work to be completed. Hopefully, we'll be able to take it with full weight on the next round. It is vital that this work be carried out zealously, and it is not available at all. Special policies and plans must be set out, which especially look to this group and children and adolescents with these or other related problems or parallels, and then work to shorten the waiting list and expand this service. Finally, I'd like to agree with what's already been said. The speaker considers this to be a very important first step to discuss the improvement in this field, but far from any final truth. Finally, I think we Icelanders have to take it very seriously not only to consider what we spend small government funds for health care, and whether patients have high costs, but also how low the share of GDP goes to health care in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u103	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the motion and welfare committee for having won this case, and I love to read the committee opinion, see all the visitors who have come, a detailed committee opinion that covers comments, and argues as to why the committee has taken care of them or not, and it is working against groups. I think this is a great job. This is cool, and we can make a good first move in an effort to shape a mental - health program. It's really amazing that we've got this thing in 2016, that's as far as we can go. I would have liked to see, and it would be easy to say that you would want to see a bigger and bigger plan, but I think if we succeed in carrying it out, we're in the right direction. As mentioned here, there is, of course, a new plan that needs to be done when it comes to it. I think it was also good to have a report on mental health care with children and teenagers published, a very interesting report and needs to be included in the discussion. It clearly shows that we cannot sit down with our hands. We haven't done our part in this case, at least that's the way I experience it. Another motion that has been submitted for good reason. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir Iggadóttir is that, if I recall correctly, a psychologist in high school was involved, which I think is very important. I think it's time to add to the feeling that I'm feeling a little strange if it's a service that the schools should be paying for. It should be a service that the State paid for high school, so it is certainly not one college that really affords to spend time with psychologists for work. But I know that experience, for example, at the Academy of Education in Akureyri has been very good and that this is where people want to continue. That's the way it should be in any high school. I agree with what. The fact that mental treatments are referred to as critical treatments with clinical guidelines is a good way to recommend the suggestion. It matters. Here we also refer to Britain. That's very interesting what's going on there, really. I think we should take a serious look at it. It is a mental act of behavior that may be treating diseases that may be less severe, since it can be very effective. When we see that mental illness is the most common cause of disability in Iceland and the World Health Organization predicts that by 2030, depression will become the world's global health crisis, this problem is so broad that effective measures must be taken. I am excited to observe what the British are doing, and to some extent the committee has studied and referred to it. I don't know if a welfare committee has taken up a report on State Review. I think it's very important to follow those issues and the indications there. It was discussed at the meeting of the Commission and monitoring committee, as is the case with all reports National Reexamination, followed by a number of topics in the National Committee. There's a very important tip here. Even if it doesn't necessarily come into this matter, I'd like to bring it up to a health committee, who actually has enough to spin, I know, or the person who accepts a new council will follow this. I think it's really important. I find it interesting to read about the tests here, and it is such a pleasure to see what the committee has clearly done, have many visitors, weighed, and measured. In effect, I agree with what appears in a committee article and with the conclusion that the committees have concluded after hearing a argument or against it. I'd like to thank you for this very good work, and while I'm at the council, I'll do my part to give the highest. HCPs will have the necessary resources for this policy to be implemented, and it will be done well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u104	Madam President. I'm gonna start by thanking you. For her positive speech and commendation to the welfare committee, a senator, Brynhildi, gave Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir. I agree that the welfare committee worked well on this matter. It can also be said of the committee that there is a lot of fun and good work there. Even if we do not always agree, we usually work at trying to find common conclusions if possible. This is positive and good because we represent different voters, and it is best when we can find a way that can be accepted by anyone. Now mental health. I'm mainly here to discuss a report on State Review. Now it comes out before we return the committee's opinion, and that's very positive. Each member of the committee studied its contents, but the problem is that the reports go to the management and monitoring committee, and we need to weigh and evaluate the welfare committee: shall we call back the State Review Committee? Should we call the Ministry if we've been there before? This change of action is thought - provoking because there is plenty to do; much of the information we need to study and work with is drawn from the committees we need to do. At times, these reports may go above and below the committees that deal with the relevant topic areas. I'll admit, I didn't see what sort of management and monitoring committee coverage of the report was done. [[The president calls.]] What is the opinion of the senator of this arrangement?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u105	Madam President. The reason why at the time it was decided that a management and monitoring committee would take place all Kingdom Review reports is that some of them fell in between and without any publicity. I'm totally in favor, and I'm very pleased with the arrangement that has been included in the Committee, where I feel that we are working very well together, and generally come to a good conclusion, about the way we are going to take our reports, to get a state review of ourselves, and then to share in the ministry and institutions. Often, the coverage is very good. It was very good on this report. What is of particular interest to us is that this is the subject of the report to members of the council, members of all categories. The Ministry should respond. We're asking you something, what are you going to do? ... andbethishold. I know that, in some cases, a financial committee has actually taken up a little of its monopoly and said: "Here's a financial report. We want to talk about it. I'm glad if the President's Accounting didn't come to that meeting, maybe it was a double act. But the other would be to hold a meeting together, and that I think could even be too much. Maybe that's exactly what they are, but they're not so many professional reports. But because this case is so important and important that, as most members of the council are well inside it and can ask the Ministry, the press and the governor, and those involved, I don't think it's unusual to mention the party again. I think we've ever had a joint meeting, I remind you, but I think it's very important that one committee takes at least all the reports, because this was a problem, and that's a management and surveillance committee and everybody owns agents there. Since then, we have at times called to the Senate's attention on some matters, perhaps the World Health Committee and General Education Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u106	V.E.G. President. Yes, it was during the last term that the president sent the reports to different committees. I remember that we recorded the procedure in the existing Social Affairs and Security Committee that all the reports we received were taking for coverage and returning opinions of some kind. If we were happy, we told them, etc., but still we returned opinions so that we could see in the Senate that the General had studied all the reports and entered them. I agree that it's fine to have a management and surveillance committee involved in this in their study, but I still feel that many of these reports are missing. I also have doubts about being called by different committees. In some cases, it's just right, but it's gonna be a bit unusual. This report is criticizing that the surgeon general did not take part in a specific role, so it is indeed a government government that is not working as it should, even though another part of the Ministry is pointed out, there is another understanding of this. In fact, I felt in this report that the Ministry may not respond in a decisive way. It was a little put on the rise that this was all going the right way. It wasn't very firm how to deal with this. However, it may be appropriate for the committee to prepare the report, even though it will be only in the fall when the committee becomes less active. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u107	Madam President. I totally agree with this. These views have been discussed in the management and monitoring committee. I find it extremely important to receive the report from the Federal Reexamination Agency. I'd like to see more because we're discussing the reports at the Assembly Hall and, for example, such as. This report, and if it be with the Minister to answer, because when we're taking our reports, we're talking to the officials, the Minister is responsible for his ministry and the action to be taken. In fact, we're doing too little of this patrol operation to call a minister to us to ask in and out of the streets. But I would think that discussions about at least the most important reports of Kingdom Accounting should simply be held at the Assembly Hall as well. Then they could all be involved, it wouldn't be just those sitting on a board of administration and monitoring committees that are well in those cases. That's the way it is. I agree. But there was one thing I forgot before, I'm just going to point out what had been reported to me. That was the cost. Official review calculated the cost of this group of paintings from 2010 to2014. What caught my attention was that there are about a billion people in care payments and 3.2 billion. K. is due to contracts with independent psychologists 3.2 million. K. in those years. This information is so important to us and then do something about it. Therefore, I want all members of Congress to be aware of these reports, to read them, and then to be with us to shape policies, since we are more often than agreed on things.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u108	A respectable president. It is appropriate to discuss the opinion of the social committee on the first significant health reform program by the government that everything here is quiet, unusually relaxed, and comfortable. Although the subject can sometimes be discussed and has called for a different reaction from the calmness of the audience when discussing this important subject and considering it. A respectable president. I'm going to start by thanking the members of the committee, my members on the welfare committee for the work involved in this case, and that it has been successful in a concerted effort that the committee gave a united committee of members of this important matter. These are the first significant steps in the government's program of improvement in mental - health care, and they are long in time. More often than not, and today, mental health issues are discussed, and at times they may be prejudiced toward people with mental health problems. More often than not, it is a shy matter, which is unfortunate because they are less likely to contact a doctor who is suffering from some condition that belongs to our mental health. What I think is most significant, except for the whole ministry, and what I'm going to do is that the committee sharpens in the ministry for the deaf and for the deaf. A special health team for that group is expected in the committee. It is important to highlight the need for healthcare professionals who speak sign language, understand sign language, and who can communicate in that language because direct contact between health care and patients must be basic for success, there should not be any intermediate contact there. Therefore, it is vital that in such a team, there are professionals who can and who speak sign language, what we did to equal the language and Icelandic language of a long time ago. I think it's a reason, like other people, to mention this specifically and to emphasize it with a lot of emphasis. It is also very important, as indicated in the Commission's opinion and schedule, that there is an expected increase in the number of psychiatrists in clinics and clinics. It must also be translated, at least in my sense, that when a person arrives at the clinic, a cross-cutting team, which is a psychologist to discuss the problem facing and to counsel a person, whether he is a child, a teenager or an adult, needs to continue on a more comprehensive approach, that within the currently proposed system of payment, he or she is in charge and will be taken into the well - being committee at the time of decision, the value of going to the clinics for the first time, and receiving the tip from there should be equal to that of psychologists and other psychiatrists as to other diseases. I'll let me watch this in context. Situated on this fine committee, I will at least use my understanding to be the same as the value on the part of the minister when he makes this bill, for it makes it very clear that the first stop is the health care and that the reference remains for the one who is not able to perform it on the payment it is today. I think there is a reason to say this here and now to sharpen what comes later to the treatment of the Committee. This is important in view of our discussions about both screening and early intervention and discussing the waiting list and the raising of mental - health care services for children that are likely to find health care facilities, nurserys, and elementary schools, and these three sides can play together when children need to be found for some reason of anxiety, whether they are within two years of age or at school. The institutions that deal with children and teenagers and work with them from day to day must be shared. They need to be able to communicate and point out the factors that might need to be considered, and this committee is discussed as a screening and early intervention. As many as six years of age, children are being monitored by health care professionals, and the school will be replaced. It should be easy for us in the dense community in which we find children struggling with problems affecting their mental health in order to have early intervention. Then there must be a matter of principle, in this context, that it is not sufficient to determine the problem but, rather, must have some means in which the person is directed and held. This is fundamental in these and other diseases. When we discuss mental - health services with young people, we must have a special team of individuals because the service they need may be very different from that of adults who may be diagnosed late in the ages. I sometimes say, as long as the oldest men remember, there's been a waiting list in BUGL, and after the services of Pediatrics and Teenages, which is abbreviated BUGL. But perhaps with early intervention we could prevent the number of people that need to be attended and the prospective services to children and teenagers as well as to their surroundings and provide the resources available to make them more comfortable in the society in which they live and are moved. Always detracting and putting it into practice may be the most important solution to their problems, and it needs to be looked at in a multidisciplinary team what the community can do to relieve anxiety and distress, and it can provide help and resources for children and adolescents. More often than not when we discuss a cross-cutting team, we feel confident that everyone will understand what it means and that the emphasis will be placed on the first level of health care care, on health care, that there will always be a multidisciplinary team that can receive the individual and direct him into a strategy that may overlap within the health professions as well as within the school community, so that the person who has problems will get his or her own problems but not exchanges for the mains of the services within the system. A respectable president. In this room and in the opinion of the committee, there is a small section called Instructions for the Media. The committee agreed that neither the government nor the Commission themselves could monitor or give the media a clear message on how they should discuss this. But it has puzzled me, and I'm going to say it out loud, that the media have sometimes stated in the news that it is a man or a woman with a mental disorder or with a man or a woman of foreign origin, but we don't speak of him being from Isafjordur or Sigluund or Akureyri or Acdéri, no. Neither would he have had a heart problem or cancer or maybe his appendix taken out the morning before, no. But we feel that in the media, we have reason to say that a person has a mental disorder and is even of Asian origin. It does nothing but harbor prejudice, and it's totally ridiculous. If this is not to be said out loud with the media, we are in a bad mood. Sometimes it surprises me that we Icelanders, the small, strong, prosperous people, let's have all these analyses. I think we're playing world record in analysis, I'm pretty sure that, in any kind of analysis. I think there is reason to look at what in the world causes children, adolescents, and then adults to have an analysis and more frequent drug use for analysis than anywhere else in the countries we would like to compare with. Is this because we have not had a cross-cutting team in order to provide the individual with a closer environment, and it has been the easiest thing to put individuals on medication to calm or relieve them or to reduce the rest? I don't know why, what kind of medication it is or what, but it worries me. We should ask ourselves, " Why are we doing this? ' Nevertheless, I rejoice with the campaign to carry out the orders of a group of people who will see the kind of service we can give to children who are suffering from ADHD, and that there will be increased emphasis on the factor as well as others with cross-cutting assistance to young people and adults in the closer society that they live in each time. A respectable president. First and last, I rejoice that these steps are phased and that this council proposal should be faced, hopefully, and nothing, hopefully, that will be followed with all dignity by members of Congress, ministers, health institutions, and their health community, taking this into account. It must also be said that the highest. Secretary of health and the highest. Health Ministers in the near future need everyone to realize that this requires extra funding. That's why people have to look.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-28-103.u109	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a commission about a bill to legalize a change in financial law. The committee discussed the case and received a meeting with a representative of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs who had previously sent the case out for 20 parties, while reviews were received from two sources. This case is not new, of the needle, come here several or several times, for discussion in this room. This is merely an extension of VI's provisional regulations to financial companies, which were originally set into law by the so - called emergency laws. Then, in 2009, VI's provision of the budget was set up for a financial enterprise and it has been extended four times, thus extending this provision for the fifth time. It allows the SEC to take special measures in certain situations or situations to limit damage or damage to financial markets. The committee noted that it was not long since the law was last applied but in March 2015, when the SEC made a decision for fusion without a debt, the Western Savings Fund was united with the Lands Bank hf. by the taking of possessions, and by debt, and by the balance of money. The Commission suggests that if a comparable situation arises, it is necessary that measures such as these can be taken quickly to limit the damage of depositors and investors and to prevent the instability of financial markets. It is therefore important to have such a warrant. However, it is planned to submit to the European Commission's legislation on the European Commission's regulations for the management, submission and separation of financial enterprises, which would be a law which would address general and pan-Europeanly concerning the separation of financial enterprises in which this law would be legalized. The bill is not yet available, so the committee supports the continuation of its purpose until the end of 2017. But in the end, a respectable president, is to state or justify what is stated in the bill that rich demands today apply to the financial financial capital. There is no sign of anything other than the healthy management of the currently operating businesses. This is what I just want to refer to the opinion on the subject. 183. Under the heading, the majority write a lot of what they say. The Economic and Business Committee, as well as the one that stands for Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman of the Committee, Vilhjálmur Bjölm Bjarnason, Willum Þór Þórsson Þorsson, Steingrímsson, and Jakobsdóttir Jacobsdótir.
