ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u1	There's gonna be time for a meeting at the same time. 12,30-115 today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u2	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss the domestic flight here today. I feel that it is time for governments to recognize that the international flight is, in effect, the public transport of the country, especially in view of the fact that the roads of the country no longer carry all the heavy transport and traffic flows of increasing tourism. However, domestic flights are far too expensive for Icelanders to take advantage of. That is why there have been a quarter reduction in international flights in nine years at the time the number of tourists has tripled. However, the truth is that flying is the lifeblood of the much - distant settlements from the capital area, the city of Reykjavík, a center of administration and a large part of international service, especially health care, and transport between these must be readily available. If domestic flights were affordable prices for the public, it would be a revolution in the habitat of people in the country, as well as the structure of employment. It must be thought, though, that while the number of tourists has increased by only one third after the number of tourists has increased by about 150 percent. It says that the price of the flight costs, which, as a result, are an inhibitory factor for the development of this service. It is a worthy task for governments, especially in the face of the great pressures of the country's roads, to look for ways to promote this aspect of our transportation, including those of the United States. by having an effect on air traffic costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u3	Mr. President. I will be like the last speaker and discuss the international flight that has been quite superficial in recent times and that had much to do with the last days. I have had doubts about the intentions of the present government, who, though, began to set up a committee on this project, i.e. how to reduce the cost of domestic flight. It has been a long time since that work was done, but nothing has happened. It costs about 200 million if the cost of fuel is dropped in internal air, lower costs at airports, etc., and the price can be reduced, it matters, by 15 ◯18%. There's less to fly in the country as much as it costs. It's both about maintaining the country, having the opportunity to perform innovation, family and so on. There are some things underneath. If we really want to have built in the whole country, the flight must be an option. That's for damn sure. There is also another factor that matters when it comes to the scattered farm, and it is the fiber - opticization that was to play a very important role. It was also an appointed committee, and it returned, but unfortunately it does not seem to follow in the way that was started, at least in the Treaty of the Government. Building policy needs to be stressed, and more money must be put on the project, and the rules of distribution must be set as originally planned. They were not supposed to be in such a situation that their rural communities were struggling with one another, as is the case today, and those who are most vulnerable are in pursuit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u4	V.E.G. President. I'm going to use this part of the program that has the name of the council to discuss the activities of the council. As we all know, tomorrow is the last day of the Generals Work Programme. Yesterday we discussed a case that existed in the past. Um... a huge case involving the Penitentiary Fund of government workers... and a change in that law. A vote on the committee of that matter follows. We put it between parts of this discussion to which the Senate committee is going on, but it is obvious, however, that any supername as it is, that it is impossible to complete such a big matter in one day. We called a lot after yesterday to find out what subjects that were as high as possible. The government wanted to finish this council and find out what the plan was. Unfortunately, I have no knowledge that anything has been mixed up in these matters. This, of course, is a very sad situation, for although there are some things we would agree on where the emphasis should be placed, there is nothing. Of course, it is good that many subjects will also be on the program today, which is a matter for the rest of the year. or later discussion, it will help us to continue our work here. [[The president calls.]] But it remains that time is really running away from us. [[The president calls.]] So we have to call to the highest power. President and Chief. Governments that there's something they can do about how they're going to end this council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u5	A respectable president. I would like to step toward the welfare system. Happily, one of the characteristics of an Icelandic society is that there is a strong social deal for the well - being of this country. Every time we enter the election, whether it's from a local partner or if it's for the General or Country Government, the discussion on the general welfare of the discussion is the core. First, that and then how we want to contribute to our expenses. The core of the welfare and welfare policy is the ideal and ideal view that everyone has the right to live with dignity regardless of social status, age, residence, sex, etc. Any action by the government should, then, be directed to minimize this difference. Why is that? Is it possible for society to show kindness in some way or good to its citizens and inhabitants? No, the goal of a strong welfare system is to ensure that all citizens are really involved in a powerful society. It is the participation, access, and right to being creative and participating in society, which should be the goal of a strong welfare system. The road system is not merely a currency team, it's a way to ensure that society has the power of everyone, and of all alike.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u6	A respectable president. A shrinking campaign event is a concern that has become more serious for a while. There are speculations and theories as to why this is so. In short, the most common explanation I am simply hearing is lack of interest in politics. Not that it's too difficult or too complicated to attend, it's just a sincere lack of interest. And I'm told at least by people who are supposed to know. You may now be able to discuss what you can do about it for long periods of time. But I believe that one of the reasons why people lose faith in politics and, in part, in democracy is that they experience that their views are not important, that they don't matter what they choose, because in reality, a large wave is going rather than one vote. Therefore, I would think that the way in which we can develop faith in politics and democracy itself would be that we would concentrate on in the future giving the voter a better chance to influence, directly, in the course of matters, not only who are in this room or in the government but also to develop ideas such as how the public could set the priority. Instead of arguing about the other or this poll or how we look at priorities, modern technology provides a useful guide for the development of data and facts. There is a technology today to allow people to have any effect on this, not all of it, I'm not suggesting that funding will be in the hands of the public, I'm just saying that there are ways to promote public participation in decision making today. We've never had better and more opportunities to do so. We should take advantage of that opportunity rather than allow this bad trend to continue much longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u7	President. I find it important to point to members of the Independence Party that the study published in The Lancet, which compared countries of the world with various health factors, does not put us in first place over the best health care systems in the world, but is a public health examination, so in view of recommendations. There's a town to be seen by the senators. I'd like to read up here some tips from Kári Stefánsson on the McKinsey National Hospital report, because I think it's very important that we face up to the fact that there's a certain lack of direction here. With President's permission, Kári says: In the United States, authors argue that there is no overall health policy. It is not clear, for example, what should be handled in the health - care departments of the Land Hospital, what in walking departments, or private rooms in the city or in the clinic or other clinics. There is no coordination, and individual aspects of health care have developed for themselves rather than for the needs of society. Healthcare professionals, especially doctors, have searched the most important parts of the system. As a result, the cost of serving in private rooms in a town has increased considerably at the time that has been cut down elsewhere. This cost increase is explained by the increase in activities and new contracts with health insurance that allow for higher remunerations for services granted. He ends these indications of lack of direction in part 3 of his article, saying: ▪ The fact is that the private room pizza has grown to the point that there are not many countries in Europe where there are a greater personal interest in health care than there are in Iceland. Now I don't know if there's anything the people wanted. I think it's a lot to think about, and I challenge the World of Congress to find ways where we can attend a long-term conference on such important events here at the council itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to talk again about eating. From time to time you see news and pictures, e.g. on Facebook, where the piles of food are being discarded, often from stores. I really feel like I'm going so slow in this matter. In fact, there is a lot to do with people's awareness and the emphasis on consumers. But while shopping and even producers are able to drive food, which for some reason has not been used, directly into the scene and pay for that low price, I don't think that's going to happen very much. I don't want to understand how it could be more expensive to take organic waste to a swamp than to take it into custody. We're a country very close to the end of this line because we became very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very much. We have some country plan, but I don't think it's ambitious, I have to say. The 2013 national programme suggests the ban on waste from time to time with 2021 and a special tax laid on the watch. It's a suggestion. This should just be the policy. It's just something we should put on, and it's not like this's gonna happen. Besides, we don't really know how much food is disposed of from cafeterias, from producers, and now I don't talk about shops. This information can be called for. The natural secretary of the environment is due tomorrow to ensure that the number of organic wastes, derived from food, is no more. She's not welcome. If people plan to grow food, organic waste, they go to the mall, and it has to be inexpensive as they go to the emergency area. It has to be like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u9	V.E.G. President. First, I'm going to thank you for your cooperation at the council of our general Congress. Councilmen. It is certainly called after the council and in charge of the highest priority. The government intends to complete. I feel that it is a spontaneous demand at the same time, and I feel that it is not unusual for us to continue to be tolerant that many important cases have been developed in committees and can fully argue that it is at least responsible to finish, although only with the effectiveness of the council in mind and the hard work that all members of Congress have contributed. I could mention some of the matters that we all know to be worth and that it would be wise to finish, not to wait, and possibly to be confused. But, of course, there is always the feeling in such circumstances, on the final meters, of trying to finish the most, that time is running out of control, working on important issues. People are burned by health issues. I can refer to RUS's campaign TV last night, and most political parties were saying that more money has to be put in the health system. I will not object to that need, but it should really be a challenge to prevent a steady expansion and try to consider the prevention and the consequences of such measures. A large proportion of diseases are life - style related diseases, and during this ideal period in three places, I have raised issues to promote volunteers and workers in the sports movement, a language that contributes to the well - being. to the physical and mental health of young people, in fact, a huge predestination issue. Well, time is certainly quick, but I will continue to exert myself and fight for such emphasis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u10	A respectable president. The Senate will eventually pass. During the past few weeks, much work has been done in committees. The cooperation between government and government is usually good in the committees I work on. Cross - political agreements are often reached for changes or parts of them. In other matters there are differences, and in many cases such differences are an important factor in improving matters. Prominent work is now completed or finishing some important issues that I give high priority on making progress in the discussion and payment at the council. These are, for example, issues such as student loans and scholarship billes, the release of capital handles, and the support to buy at the first apartment. It matters to all of us here that most of the work we've worked on in different matters in all stages will pass through the council. So I think it's very important that we get the opportunity to continue working here for some day before the election. I'd also like to introduce a case that appears to be the interest of a small part of the country, but it's probably bigger than we think, that's the mail distribution in the country. As noted, during the spring months, the number of mail deliverers in rural areas was reduced. It may be wise, but it is entirely unlikely that the task will be carried out differently than the subsequent review of other aspects of the mail distribution, such as the switch to A and B mail, who can take on mail distributions and more. Then I'm amazed that the post - communications agency has agreed to the application by the Marketing Authorisation Holder to reduce the number of mail days in smaller urban areas, places either defined as urban or rural areas, apparently at a time's convenience. This is true, for example, in places such as the Offense and Honnath.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u11	V.E.G. President. I'd like to call attention to a synopsis proposal made by some of the candidates on April 4 of that year. It's about to the highest. The financial minister of a group of workers who aims to identify the pros and cons of making changes in the calculation of inflation and insurance insurance so that a uniform index price will still be used instead of an index price. In this country, the index price for consumer consumption has been used as a cut-off of inflation and the calculation of price insurance since 1995, if I'm correct. The OECD countries use a consistent index of consumer prices, the purpose of which is to ensure a consistent anti-inflation in the OECD countries. The primary difference between these index measures is that in calculation of the agreed index price, the housing team is not included, i.e. The special property of the facility. The debate has now been high, and the figures and calculations of certain parties show that if we had used the uniform index price of consumers in the last 12 months, inflation would have been -0.9%, but not 0.9%, as it is today. What does that really mean? This means that within the last 12 months, the guilty debt of the households would have dropped 18 billion but not raised by 18 billion, which was due to current indicator calculations. I have to say, what? Congress and the highest. Mr President, I didn't realize how large my little councilion proposal is. I thought this was a fair matter for the country's home, not an enormous interest. I'd like to ask you what. The Senate can examine this matter during the last days of the council, whether it could be considered between 2 and 3. ... abouttheprecautionstowhat. The Economic and Business Committee. One will be irresponsible in my opinion when we have these calculations and these figures that demonstrate this tremendous difference. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u12	A respectable president. There's been a lot of talk about health care for these elections, and that's fine, because few lawsuits are as important as health issues. No one can claim anything other than that the government today has the priorities for health care. Now everybody's talking about the importance of it, but there's been no need for people to be willing to support the government in setting priorities, because if priorities are set in health, that means that other areas need to be pinched. There's a sound that doesn't fit. ... anticoagulation. This morning, we received another report on health care. We've received a report from McKinsey, which is very good. It shows that, despite the increase in health care, there has been a decrease in efficiency in the land hospital, something that we need to consider in particular. This morning we were at a meeting for a report made available on health issues by the Economic Area of the Business Association. It is a very clear report that I encourage everyone to study. It shows that we have increased much in health matters, but on top of this, age - adjusted donations are of the highest level that occurs within OECD, and there is something that we need to take into account. Similarly, paying parts relative to other nations of OECD are found to be very low as a proportion of GDP. We're on a couple there in the North countries, of course, we have a lower payment party than at least two of the northern countries. Another factor that comes out also because men talk about the North countries is that we cut ourselves off compared with the North countries when it comes to health care. What's your special situation? We have almost exclusively a government system while the North countries have more and less in the hands of a private member. [[The president calls.]] I think it's important, more dignified, that we discuss these matters from fact rather than wishful thinking.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u13	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson began an interesting discussion earlier, which included... on election participation and general interest in politics and elections. We have seen that in recent years and decades, there has been a decrease in the trend in neighboring countries. For a long time, the situation in this country was that we did not seem to be on the same route as the neighboring nations in this regard. Thus, in general there has been a much larger vote than that in most controlled countries, where it is not mandatory to apply the voting rights, as some countries do. However, there may be certain signs of danger. The results of 2014 rural elections showed a significantly lower rate of attendance than we have seen before. This was different from what happened during the 2013 elections and, in fact, 2009, when the vote was great. But we saw a certain fall at the district convention in 2014. This may be an indication of some development that we need to take to heart. In the short frame of time, I believe that our role is primarily to encourage people to take advantage of the voting rights, to encourage participation. In the long run, no doubt we need to consider larger changes. But I'm not entirely sure that more elections or increased demand for the nation to walk to the top of the others, and these matters are the way to deal with this. [[The president calls.]] The danger, of course, is that the more people are called at the board, the less interested they will be in the long term.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u14	A respectable president. I wanted to come up and discuss only the issues we have at the council that came unexpectedly from the highest level. Industrial Minister on generators to Back where the highest power is. Minister wants to set up laws that take away the National Protection and cryopreserve the current process, but the Commission of Environment and Resources is going to review charges from Land Protection on Exploitation Directives in these areas. Now it is so, and we've gone over it here, that the thing is urgent about financial interests and all that, there's no need for me to go over it all again. However, it is fairly arbitrary to intervene in legal processes that are very successful in enforcing laws that take away the protested society's rights, such as Land Protection. There's a lot of concern that going that way. Also, as it has now been found that we do not have to wait long for the Commission's decision on environmental and resource matters. It is estimated that the decision will be made in 10,◯14. October. Well, then you have to ask yourself, "Am I the highest? Ministers have a problem with how that decision sounds if they are afraid to wait for him. A professional health committee is going to settle the issue today and make sure that we do not wait for that decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u15	A respectable president. It's a little strange to stand here and vote on where this case should go, whether it should go to the right. The financier or the Economic and Business Committee, because Congress laws say in Article 13. the role of the budget board is, but it is, by permission of the President: The board is about the government's financial resources, financial resources, government property, loans, and government responsibilities and the financial debt of state funds. Here we are dealing with a bill to legalize the law on the Penitentiary of the State's Pension Fund. Therefore, I feel that this vote is unnecessary, but I suggest that this case be referred to at the highest level. The financial and economic minister did in the discussion, ending it at home. Is that short? Is it true here, here, here with Congress?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u16	Mr. President. In Congress, the same as 13th. Article 9 of the Council of Economic and Business Affairs reports that the Economic and Business Committee is to be discussed on pensions. Of course, the committee has been discussing the work of pension funds and has recently completed the investments of pension funds. In view of this, I would have viewed the part of the matter that we now, the system change itself, should be at home. The Economic and Business Committee. Of course, in terms of the pension commitments displayed in the budget bill, they belong to a financial committee. I think it is only natural for the General to describe this will in the light of the contemporaneous opinion of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u17	A respectable president. For decades, the development of contaminated industry has been leading in Iceland. It has been estimated that large factories that use extraordinary electricity to produce aluminium and then silicas are good for Icelandic society. No doubt this is how it was in 1970 that building a powerful electronic system for the whole country and doing so in connection with selling heavy electricity for a major industry was a major factor. That's what few share. However, today, in 2016, the tourist industry is the most reliant industry, and 80% of foreign tourists are coming to the country to beat the uninhabited vastness of the country, where human hands have not yet left their mark. This is so desirable, because there are few places in the world that still have these vast places, and we have to fit. At that time, the climate issues are so urgent that the next ten years are crucial to this, and there we need to change the course. It should be clear to everyone. We in Iceland will experience the effects of climate change very quickly, for the rising temperature and acidification of the sea will have tremendous economic and social effects here. It has been consistently held, including of the highest order. Minister, the industry is the most important carrion in society's construction. To save the inhabited earth, the solution is to build a large industry. For the sake of business, big business is built. However, it has often been so much that we have had to move into the country hundreds of workers, for a foreign labor force has not been enough. But how much does this policy cost us? The industry is given a discount of taxes and fees for state and community. She'll pay, for example. Not a full insurance bill like any other company. This is short - lived, so we do not lose money. Rather, we are developing incentives for anticipated income and activities, that we are not paying anything for the big business. Nothing is far from true. It is true that the industry does not pay, but everyone else does, the public with its tax money, the general company, who, of course, have to pay off all their taxes and expenses. It's not here in a void where nothing costs. She uses the electricity required to activate, she uses line tunes, she uses the roads, she uses social security funds, etc. She uses this infrastructure, but she doesn't suggest the same thing to them as the rest of the community. I'm curious about the hundreds of billions of dollars that have taken up direct expenses from the government over the years for heavy industry, not in the form of taxes, but in direct expenses. Roads have been constructed, electric lines built by dams, along with tunnels, constructed by harbor fortresses, and this is how I can proceed, all in the name of a major industry. We can stop at the activation costs only. At the expense of construction, the cost of megawatts can be estimated to be 300 million dollars. This will only take into account the cost of activation. That means 300 megawatts are costing over $100 billion. And what's on the drawing table? Thorsil takes 78 megawatts, Silicor of the Grunartan 80 megawatt. This has been discussed with commercialism factories, 350 megawatts, caves in Helgavik, 625 megawatts. That's how we could keep going. As a result of land induction, such projects are borrowing and there is a financial risk to the taxpayers who are the owners. It would be good if a minister could pull all this cost together, although I know that it is, of course, difficult, and so interesting to hear from him how many dollars have paid in return for these expenses. Some have said, "It's no longer a major policy in Iceland, we're watching from her. " It would be wish it were true. If we look at what has been discussed here at the council, it was seriously discussed for a week when we would take the activation part of a frame plan out of parentheses and let it go alone through the council but let go of the reservation. What for? Yes, because we have factories that don't start, Bounty factories and factories in Helguvík. This is what's controlling another trip in Iceland. This government has a big industrial policy and wants to activate for the industry. If she wants to, I'll finally ask if it's the highest. Ministers want to continue nationalization and put the financial risks of all these activations on the public side of the public. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u18	Mr. President. It is a joy to discuss a matter as large as this one's schedule. I appreciate the opportunity to do that, but at the same time, it's hard to get over the whole area. There are many things to do in this special discussion about the intention of making a fortune. Hv. An apocalyptic said that in recent years, the structure of contaminated industry was some of the core of our work policy for Icelanders. I don't think it's quite true, however, when we disappeared from being simply a fisherman community, a people who built their livelihood on getting valuables in the ocean, and began to activate, and it set off an aluminium that was built in Straumsvík. This gave us more support for the economy. I don't think there's any questions about how the standard of living in Iceland has improved greatly as we have used sustainable energy in our country. We are the people of the world who, for example, are the people of the world. for homes, the highest percentage of sustainable energy for energy sources, both electricity and heat. It is important to remember that the development of industrial companies in Iceland has helped to build up the electricity system, which benefits from the small industry, agriculture, all over the country. There are only three or four companies in Iceland who buy 3/4 of the power in the electricity system - 3/4 of the whole power - so it's the right choice to negotiate with as large an enterprise as their energy spending has had a considerable impact. I believe that the benefits of the country's standard of living, for our economy, have been very different to the economy. By doing so, we have received additional support, and the indirect effect was tremendously positive. Without this structure, we could not have seen settlements flourish, industry, electricity spread across the country in the way it has been. I want to agree with what. A senator when it comes to looking up a new job structure, a creative article. She specifically mentioned the tourism services, but it is all the other thing that we need to focus on in increasing numbers, articles that do not have this natural limitation of energy for growth, but can grow in foreign soil, e.g. ... usingtechnology. We'll see a lot of companies crash from Iceland in that field. I mention the software companies that need to include. A strong and steady economic environment. In that sense, I completely agree. A senator, the way forward is not to multiplies in Iceland. I can't picture things like that. that countries will grow in Iceland in the future. I can't see it. I can see, however, that smaller industrial companies can crash here, and we can get more diversity in the company of the electronic companies. I allow me to point this out because the question is, has all of this brought back to me, has we taken on more commitment than can be justified in terms of the risk, that it is to consider that Landing is just over 40% at this time, own money is more than 200 billion, property beyond the debt of more than 200 billion? After just two or three years, land - healing will pay 15, 20, even 25 billion each year to the State's profit - 1,25 billion each year. In recent years, land activation has carried on tremendous projects, but at the same time, it has paid up to 80 billion dollars of debt. The company is enormously powerful, and because of the future we can see, I have talked about creating a stable fund in the country and reinvesting the use of energy resources into the stability fund and having it as a kind of a caution fund for us to balance the balance between economic trends we may have to live with. I don't think that we're supposed to get the possession of land reactivations to private people, including the U.S. In view of this, although I've suggested in years the idea that we could share our possession with pension funds, that idea has not been well established. [[The president calls.]] I don't think we should be rocking the boat anything about the possession of that company.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u19	Mr. President. The old deal with the big business is not to be followed. A recent example in the discussion is the company of Alcoa, whose investment agreement will always avoid the law on the ban on the use of so - called financial gain. It just means one thing, the company's interest is and they'll be deported, and no tax paid by them to Icelandic society. Such contracts that carry the money of our resources out of the country must never be made again. The nations of the world are now competing to attract foreign companies, and they use their tax systems to do so. This need to be avoided because while other companies work alongside those who have to pay their dues and taxes, and we, the people of the country, will be made up of important money that should be used in the health or school. Under the right categories here, random special contracts were made with large companies that were not open to others on the land. However, it was under the leading cohesion of the conjugal woman, and entourage of Katrín's Júlíusdóttir, the then industrial minister, that changes and general rules of investment agreements were adopted. Now every company located outside the capital area has the right to the same appeal investment agreements for an investment of a specific size. General rules replace the decisions made by politicians that take note of how the wind blows. We want to get some foreign investments into Iceland, and hopefully we'll see a more diverse business in the near future that creates good and well - paying jobs, but such investments are supposed to be in agreement with people and the environment and are to be used to build a powerful welfare and employment life in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u20	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir This big industry discussion was Ólafsdóttir's heart. When we talk about major activities, we need to put these things into some sort of temporal link between social change, employment and environment changes, but this is a work with secondary work and the services associated with it is a major source of global rewards and is important work in sectoral and markets. We are competing to reach this country with multinational conglomerates in this area, and then energy is a precious competitive element, as well as the crucialness of government treaties. Of course, this is and will be at some extent around and nature's expense, and the cost of a sacrifice in the form of an alternative choice for innovation, as well as the balance we try and want to use and protect and use. This is energy - building development, and consideration must be given to funding energy production on the production sector and the impact on the economy, the economic management in an effort to have equal increase in valuables, economic growths based on production growth, thereby maintaining stability and thereby promoting real and improved quality of living. Indeed, there is much positive about industry, and such activities have been used in recent years to produce lower energy prices to the public. We come out best in comparison with the Northern countries, and a small pay on electricity to Icelandic households, taking into account the distribution costs and tax returns far lower than the power of Europe's control countries. The preeminents of the cost of the efficient fortress are the reason and benefitable development of energy systems. It has been faster and more efficient because of a major industry that has thus laid the basis for a lower price for consumers and an increase in prosperity. [[The president calls.]] I agree with what. Specialist and the highest. Ministers for sacrificial gains are today larger in terms of tourism and climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u21	Mr. President. We in the left movement ◯ Green supply is supported by the general will for an enterprise in the country, legislation on generalism. However, the trade policy of these government groups over the years has primarily been aimed at industrial development. It has been the great solution, the old - fashioned solution that has been gone. We left greens don't think that we should be looking for activation projects to produce large amounts of electricity. Today, more than 80% of the nation's electricity generation is going to become a major industry. For example, in the South, with most of the energy produced, only about 4% remain in that region. I think we're about to start looking much more... in order that our Grand Creator of Iceland... is the human labor of the people who live here. We're supposed to look at the job structure in small and medium-sized enterprises and to ensure that it is, for example, the electronic security of all citizens of the country. can provide three-phase electricity across the country where people are starting a business. We have many things here that we should look to other than industry. It has also been observed that the industry leaves only part of its profits in the country. Of course, this is totally unacceptable and must be avoided because of the fact that there is a thin self - interest here. Me and the Icelanders - we were laughing at our left when we talked about wanting something other than a industry, what it was, a mountain grass? But what else is this today? Is it not a travel service that is becoming one of the nation's largest occupations? This government has done nothing to face the tremendous increase in the number of tourists and its infrastructure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u22	A respectable president. This is one of the conversations I would like to have longer, as is true of a number of special discussions in case of that. I can agree with things as high as possible. The Secretary of Economics said and welcomed the final words in particular. When authorities decide to use some sort of appeal, whether by law or by tax appeal or by any means like it, they are somehow directing the market. You can't always be completely against it or by it. It's not that simple. Admittedly, there may be good reason for doing so. It affects other markets too. When authorities decide that electricity should be used primarily for a particular type of industry, it also affects the possibility that other persons will have to use the same electricity for other trades. It's a control. The course that was here for a long time, away from the way people look at it today, was to take advantage of it in a major industry. Today, it is the tourism industry that thrives, which should not have surprised anyone, especially not according to the presentation of some political parties that have been here for a long time. However, there is also another industry that cannot necessarily predict the need or at least not able to thrive better with cheap electricity. Having cheap electricity is precious. It offers new industry to try new solutions, especially when it comes to energy exchange solutions can be a key factor in its success. It is important, then, that the authorities have not been trying to direct their efforts on certain industrial branches, which they merely arranged to see how they would work a decade or two or three in the future. The markets also need to be allowed to make use of technology and development that cheap electricity can produce and, in fact, only cheap electricity can provide. That means there is plenty of electricity, which means that it has not been spent in the industry that is in advance required of the majority of energy that we can offer and can sell in advance of certain uses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u23	A respectable president. I think it's a very important discussion. Underground is one of the major issues of this nation, the big industrial policy and the conflict of industrialism. I think it's a big step in the whole matter of hearing the highest. Secretary of the budget says there will be no more members. I think it's important to hear that. To me, it has been quite obvious that it was the right thing to say. Energy simply does not exist. Besides, it's a very hard job policy. What a thrill it is to hear, too, the emphasis as high as possible! Ministers will create innovation, ingenuity, creative articles, tourism. That's a new tone. There are a lot of people in this room and out in society who have fought that tone to be the dominant part of the nation's employment policy instead of the big industry. What was the "Crumb's " language about? I think that's the biggest big issue of industrialism ever. They were completely divided. That was what was called the largest project in Iceland. Unmanageable nature was destroyed. Nature, then, is now totally acknowledged to bring us great benefits and much currency and is sought for. This was destroyed and not even paid for money at the time. It was taken to a major indiscriminate for one company that takes all this energy. This was questioned in a very interesting way that would ever be profitable because energy prices were so low. Since then, it has taken years to try to unwind. It has been found that the company does not even pay the taxes it should pay in Iceland. This outstanding example, and it has evidently taken a little time for many in the Polish, of course, is now, when history gives light to this, a remarkable testimony that the big business is completely absurd. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We are to focus on travel services, creative articles, and all the things that we stressed in the budget of 2012. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u24	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir spoke of the cost of construction. The rest of us talk mostly about investments, profitables, as set out at the highest level. The minister of finance went over here on land reactivation earlier. There are a number of tourists who come here to examine nature, but there are just as many tourists that go to our use of sustainable energy resources, our fortresses, and go up to the highlands. This has led us to the lowest electrical price paid in all the countries in which we compare ourselves. Thus, the nation has gained indirect benefits from the course being run here. It is vital for us if we are to attract and strengthen foreign investment and domestic land. There we are competing with other nations, and we do not offer the best opportunities offered internationally, that is clear. We're talking government policy. During this election period, actually last spring, the employment committee of the Parliamentary Parliamenture proposal for new investments in Icelandic commercial life was taken care of. These issues are discussed in detail, how we see the development of employment in the coming years and decades. In this regard, we look forward to the end of a great deal of activity in the sense that it has been so far. We look at the construction of energy-rich industrial or energy industry requiring 10 to 50 megawatts across the scattered areas and highlighting the infrastructure of the electrical distribution network necessary for all regions to live on the same occasion in those substances. In fact, under this council resolution, the policy of the government, the policy of the Independence Party, the representatives of all classes except the bright future. A bright future brought wealth to these subjects, but we signed it, representing the Independence Party, the forwarding party, and the left green. At some point, it would have been heard to learn that we are getting along on how we see an Icelandic job life build up in energy - related industry over the years and decades. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But a bright future did not end.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u25	V.E.G. President. This will be discussed in a special discussion of agreements, and it will be replaced by: industry. I'd like to say in my own small part that it's indiscriminate agreements and bills and laws that we've decided about them are necessary. Other nations have such laws. It's actually a fight for the companies. But what's a big business? Is the big work for 600 people? Yes, perhaps. Is Bakkakur from Húsavík, with 93 employees, as the precise Germans said would be working there? No, hardly. It's just like a nice frozen-house. Keep in mind that we are in international contracts, international environments, where we need to be involved in competition. Therefore, indiscriminate agreements are essential. Of course, we need to act wisely. I agree with that, and I've previously said in the General's deliveries: there will be no more studios in Iceland. We've had enough. We shouldn't have all the eggs in the same basket. It should also be welcomed and mentioned that land induction, this magnificently large and big business that all of us can be proud of, has our own money of $40 billion. In addition, every day we Icelanders earn money from this company in the low energy expenditures in Iceland that are not known in our neighboring countries. Let's keep that in mind. However, there is probably a big difference between the electricity contract made at the Stramswoven plant just after the powder disappeared from 1960 or between 1960 and 1970 and the electricity agreements made today. The situation is different. It is my opinion that land induction could be our interest in trying to get the highest price of the energy in contracts, whether small or medium-sized enterprises that knock on our door. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Everyone else enjoys it. The industry, tourism, or fishing, or other people. Everyone enjoys what's been there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir for bringing up this important matter. For good reason, EFTA has agreed to a based map, where contributions are granted to the administration of companies, the so - called Italians. Pension agreements are not a payment team for government funds. Substitution agreements attract companies, and they've been made so that the companies that otherwise don't come to the country are provided. You can't say that there are lost incomes. Rather, it can be said that government funds reach more in favor of remuneration agreements. I'd like to take a look at the settlement bar. It is not possible to challenge what has been the longest population here has been important for land and nation, how important it has been in the economic system when another one has broken off. Whether it's the most important bike, I won't say anything about it, but it's changed times. We were talking about a deal this morning on a professional committee, but a smaller one. It's about reimbursement on music. We're dragging companies to the country to repair the nation's interests. [[The president calls.]] Similarly, we need to direct it to the country's home to provide an infidelity for my companies on the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u27	A respectable president. Like others, I want to thank for this important discussion. I'm going to let myself speak out of the political cost, community cost of political attraction. The situation is that it is too narrow to look at only what we have used to call coincidences. We have a situation now that the big corporations don't fully pay taxes here because there's no law on the thin self-finishing. A booklet published in 1995 was published under the heading 'Counsel of Energy' for international large companies. Many of these contracts are still in effect. We're bound to that deal. That's a lot of community expenses. This has been referred to as the cost of coercion. [[Up front.]] Homes in the country have been paying the bill for this position, for big industrial policy, every day for all these years. But this is turning around, and that's what we hear from the highest level. Financial and economic ministers, they're new tunes. I just want to remind the U.S.A. that it is only a matter of time ago that the current government began to exist at the present and present height. Industrial Minister Ragnheiður Elín Árnadóttir said it was a turnaround for this plant in Helguvík. Only a few years ago. Here the minister of finance speaks of the possibility that there will be no increase in the number of aluminiums. Happily, the emphasis on nature protection is growing. But we are still using political attractions in behalf of big corporations. The final example is the unfortunate issue that is considered by the employment board, which is likely to be in conflict with EEA regulations, the Osse Convention, a general view of lawsuits and a number of measures of Iceland's Constitutions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u28	President. Yes, it is indeed interesting to learn that the groups that have most fought for the building of an aluminum plant and given them the energy at a large sale price are disappearing from that vision. I always remember a drawing of Iceland from those who envisioned that Iceland should be an aluminium country. In fact, every possible part of the country had been placed in an aluminium where they could be poked down. But there are other times today. I hope that our approach to the Paris Convention can be used to shape long - term policy on how we will take advantage of the earth's gifts as presented here and not only with the ultimate stimulus but also with the greatest respect for the future. As was hard now, they were struggling to establish this Alcoan plant in a disaster crisis, in comparison with the sacrifices made, much more difficult to see that they have not been able to take advantage of the land. This big, big business is not taking part in building Iceland up but in carrying out what many Icelands feel is justified, compromising laws, and using taxes and snow.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u29	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion. She's been very good and informative. There were especially two questions that I raised to the highest level. Minister, first of all, that he would gather, or that he would be able to hit all the expanded costs of building for the big business of the electrolination Acts, port ment repairs, roads, and other infrastructures. I realize it's difficult to make a number of it now, but I'll ask the question again in written inquiry to the Minister. Then it was whether he wanted to get rid of the possession of land activation. I hear he's beginning to detract again, he opened to it earlier in the season of election. We agree that land induction is not to be sold, but we disagree with the minister because he says: The holding of land activation is not to be released, but it does not shut down that it should continue to activate, okay, not for aluminium companies, but what about herbal factories waiting here and polluting much more than aluminium factories? So what? I say we can get enough energy in Iceland without doing anything. We do this by stopping negotiations with the aluminium companies. They've been here for 20 to 30 years, they've already been paid for their investment. Now it's just not a good deal anymore. Now all they can do is go somewhere else. We need to be responsible for controlling, we should not be involved in some form of coercion. They're supposed to shorten these contracts, then they're to be stopped. Nationalization should pay more money, she's about to do it, but I want to see more than the highest figures. Minister's talking about. He speaks of 200 billion of his own money, yes, but a single activation cost 100 billion, so what is that in the big context? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u30	Madam President. Thank you for your time here today. I have expressed my opinion that it was a good policy to use sustainable energy in the country, including the U.S. Sell it to a fortune that buys energy all day, day and night, every day, on weekends, throughout the year. That's what defines these companies, they're very different, different from most of the other industrial companies. It has enabled us to make use of this great force. We use pure energy there. If people want to discuss these issues with the world's problems, which are climate warming, it is good to remember how much we actually pay for demand by using this energy for that production, because most new plants are built today in China for coal power plants. The overall exposure to such production is many times compared to what happens in Iceland. I described it here that I don't think it's right to go to any more studios in Iceland. The last part of the theme discussion is the studio in Helguvík. I don't see that there's going to be an outlet, it doesn't look like there's any solution to it. Otherwise, I don't see that there is the power to pursue such projects in the near future. I'll lead there, including... to the Framework Programme and other demand we have in front of us. The overall scope of discrimination is determined by the European Economic Area rules. This means that the extent of injurification that governments can bring on a roof can be broken, and the support is no longer possible. When asked about the industrial region at Back, there is special projects including of the docks. Refects and tunnels have not been considered to be indiscriminate in the EU economy's rule of work. [[The president calls.]] Thank you for your time. There is a convergence that for the future we will have only other emphasis, but I want to understand this discussion by saying that we have created an enormous amount of value for our community by using our energy in the way that has been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u31	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend the Committee on the Economic and Business Committee's Committee on a bill to legalize a change in currency law. I must begin by saying that it is a regular joy to be able to take the step in the disposal of capital school that the bill says is about. The bill is a part of the government's budget for the release of capital stealing presented in June 2015, which was described as three major measures to release. In the past, we have briefly discussed the actions of the first two steps that were involved in the wearing off of fallen financial companies and in securing stability on the basis of a so - called highland bridge. The third aspect of this programme is now being targeted at individuals and legislators, domestic and national. As indicated by comments on the bill, the situation is now desirable in view of the success of the first two factors, i.e. The first two aspects of a government plan of action. There is no longer a threat to large individual risk factors, such as the population of broilers or decontinents. The Commission, however, stresses the importance of maintaining emissions in a structured effort and careful management especially with regard to the pressures of financial resources and financial balance. This bill, however, becomes the general rule that unless the currency markets are specifically banned because of the limits required, it will be free. This is important, but, of course, it has to go further and there is hope that it will be slow soon. It's in a financial and economic memo, for example. until a review of certain factors is expected immediately during the first part of the next year, e.g. In terms of the share of the 6th budget of a-part 1st paragraph. for pre-imbursement and payment loans, and hence continued emissions. The discussion on the subject was extensive, and the committee received a number of reports, most of which, if not all, were positive. All of them were useful. Although the committee could agree with many viewpoints that had led to changes in the bill, the committee did not consider this to be the case at this time. However, the committee considered a reason to respond to a number of indications, and it suggests that changes are evident in the field. 1702 and coverage of them are made up of the already proposed committee party. 1701. [[Up front.]] It's always the same thing in this Jón Gunnarsson case. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Change proposal for Article 1. The bill aims to reduce pre-existing writing articles in relation to evaluation of funding movements as per Article 13. b Act on currency, but this article prohibits capital movements and allows the bill for some kind of reverse evidence, a burden for the person who is going to move money between countries. The committee suggests that the obligation of intermediate operators is reduced to report in advance of capital movements. At the same time, the Committee suggests that the expressed instructions in this regard are obligatory. Then the committee makes a suggestion to better explain certain terms in Article 1. We're on 2. is a motion that allows for making room for money in foreign currency, which is bought with the intention of paying up or in advance on loans in foreign currency. The bill was just for foreign payment. The Commission suggests that the warrant is also available on the basis of domestic payments. At 1 0... is a motion that meets the competitive goal of foreign insurance sources to accept pay on pension or pension insurance. Inland insurance companies have not had the same authority, and the bill did not expect to change there. So the Commission suggests that insurance companies and financial companies get the chance to buy currency from pension savings and pension insurance in foreign currency. The Commission suggests that individuals can pass their bills to certain domestic funds based on agreements to pay their bills to collect pensions. 12th degree. The bill is suggested that Iceland's Federal Bank be provided with extensive access to data and existing sources. The committee feels it is unwise to go as far as the bill is expected by hiding an example of the information he is calling. The committee proposes b-ahead 12. The bill will be removed. Since the capitalists were set up, the Federal Bank has been given broad sources of observation for financial stability, with reference to public interest. The committee thinks it's important to change 12. in a general sense of silence, except for other governments, financial companies, deposit companies, and electric companies. The Commission agrees with the viewpoint shown in the reviews of the rightness of a domestic financial enterprise to be the exception of Article 12. the bill so that transfers between domestic financial bills will be expected neither to be reported nor to be shifted by clients or in domestic financial accounts. The Commission feels that the obligation of the national bodies to inform the National Bank on their capitalism in foreign currency is properly reduced. The Commission therefore suggests a change in accordance with the Ministry's motion that the party's announcement is limited to financial commitments between local citizens in foreign currency, such as loan trades, commitments, abduction and the publishing of bonds and other debts. 16th degree. The bill is suggested that the current accounts of the bank's information collection be made clear to the point that they also include capital movements between countries, not just currency markets. In addition, a change to 16. The bill that assumes that the UN Bank's increased information sources can help the bank to promote financial and financial stability in accordance with its role. The committee agrees with various viewpoints that were presented in the reviews, including the above. that there should be no increase in government surveillance clearances to individuals beyond what is necessary and in the interest of interests. Such interests need to be weighed against the need to restrict governmental rights of individuals for privacy in terms of financial stability. It was also noted that the changes proposed at Article 16. the bill went too far, where it is not recommended to support evidence to eliminate confidentiality in general. Finally, it was wondered whether it was necessary to gather such extensive information about the private interests of the public and the business and whether it might be better to have authority to call out specifically for specific information in a particular case or when it was suspected that a budget was not respected. In this regard, the committee points out that as shown in a bill with the bill, it is necessary to give the Federal Bank certain authority to promote financial stability, thus ensuring public interest. The information discussed enables the bank to evaluate each of its subsidies and foreign status and to predict that it is the basis for a system-risk analysis at any given time. The assessment of system risk shows the need for employing caution devices to reduce system risk accumulation. For example, the 2008 financial flow of the fallway was largely driven by direct loans to foreign currency companies. At that time, the bank had no information or evidence that produced a clear picture of borrowing or pay days that were imminent. When the crisis struck, it was difficult to repay loans abroad and to take in large amounts domestic banks over these borrowings with the related risk of a financial breakdown in a domestic financial system, which then became reality in the fall of 2008. In light of the Commission's opinion, there are high levels of public interest in the emissions of the marine species and the need for the provision of information and data to detect the system risk, which may therefore include appropriate precautions if necessary with the use of precautions to promote financial stability. The Commission has the right to state that the sources of the Federal Bank are to be presented in a clearer way than in the bill. So the Committee recommends the release of the National Bank on Information Meetings according to Article 1 of Article 16. The bill will be restricted to legal information and only include information on property and financial commitments in foreign currency, such as direct investments, stock market investments, other investments in selling funds, loan transactions, commitments, de-exploitation and the publishing of debt bonds and other debts. That's the right thing to do. in which silence is common, except in the case of other governments, financial companies, deposit companies, and electric companies. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill is adopted with adjustments made to a special Senate document. Willum Þór Thor Thor Þórsson and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir Signed as 4 mgr. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Anna Sævarsdóttir was away from the hearing. Lieutenant Birgitta Jónsdóttir supports the case. Under these words, Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman of Sigríður Á. Andersen, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Vilmur Bjarnason, Willum Þór Þórsson, daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir in advance, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, and Steingrímsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. The speaker's talk and explanation of this fine committee party, and he wants to be especially glad that the committee has taken into account viewpoints from sources, e.g. Personal protection, in connection with Article 12. I've noticed in my conference process since the summer of 2013, that this particular institution, the Sedlabanski of Iceland, seems, in some way, never to get enough information, seems to want more information. I do not recall a case at the General Assembly that has discussed the Federal Bank without further permission for information to be collected. The members of a town, of course, complained about this and rightly so. I wondered when we've reached the point where we need to set up some surveillance system around the first, the second, the information efficiency, as well as the destruction of data. Now I'm not reducing professionalism at the Federal Bank of Iceland. I'm sure it's probably as well as possible in Iceland. But this is an overwhelming amount of information that is now being collected and used extensively in a far - reaching sense. I wondered when it's time to put in some general principle on this phenomenon, which is the supply of information at the National Bank. This has become very evident to me whenever we talk about the Federal Bank. Now I don't have the time to go into a lot of discussion about the connection with the crown and the fact that it's necessary to collect much information in order to maintain stability, but I wondered because I know why. A senator is a prince when it comes to immunity and takes this seriously, as shown in the opinion of the committee and the changes made by the Committee: When do we come to a place where we need to consider reducing these sources?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u33	V.E.G. President. I'm just not worried about these things anymore. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. I believe the Council has gone too far in spring with the change in emissions on the intelligence and resources of the Federal Bank. However, we are in a very special position on this matter. There are such interests in terms of financial status, economic management, financial balance, and other matters involved in this matter, and the disposal of measures can make no mistake. There must be no mistake. That's why I'm taking precautions. It's such public interest that we're trying to make sure nothing goes wrong. Then we feel that the Navy's got a hell of a lot more options than we always wanted. But it is also thought of as a temporary situation during this process. I hope this will be corrected then, and I hope that we will change the law from spring to spring regarding the resources there in the Navy. I think it's important that we always keep this important point in mind, privacy and personal protection, and never go beyond what is necessary. I'd like to remind you that although the Navy has these measures, he's always bound by a principle of medium-cutness, never going beyond what is necessary. We must not forget that. I know that many people feel that the Navy over time had this power over them, and that's why men are very skitatic over their heads giving him this power, but we have to make sure that nothing goes wrong when there's so much interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u34	A respectable president. My concern is not the way the bat handles the data or how he uses it. In fact, my concerns are not mainly the fact that he is not benefiting from these evidence or that he does not need them. My concern is that it's just too much data. Suppose we were talking about a nuclear plant, and someone says: " Yes, but we just need so much energy. Yeah, we need a lot of energy, but there's still danger. Everyone does well and does their best, but there's still danger. In the case of such a large collection of information, however necessary, I'm most concerned about the lack of data, because it doesn't need any particular mistakes to make it happen. Data leakage occurs because computer technology is complex. There are millions of hackers in the world who care for all kinds of stakeholders, all the stakeholders who are able to organize themselves. Even if everyone's doing fine, using an average of each step, and using only the needed data, it seems to me that there must be an awful amount of information there. Also, I have to add that I'm a little worried about me because I'm not sure what's moderate when it comes to collecting information. In order to detect a threat to financial stability, it is expected to be seen in already existing data and, as a result, it is always necessary to collect more data than it is to become necessary. Nothing is necessarily necessary in advance. There are, of course, all average principles that are fundamental, and no choice, and I realize that. However, this is not enough to address or rule out the threat created. The risk will be present no matter how necessary it is to carry out what is hazardous. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u35	V.E.G. President. Of course, it is true that when humans have great sources and are able to collect much of the data, there is danger. There's danger. There is an enormous amount of information available in the system, but we tried to minimize it as much as we could. [[Up front.]] Let's celebrate together. I can honestly admit that I always found it very difficult to accept such extensive information and wide sources. But I now appreciate that this is temporary under very special circumstances, and I trust that no more information and data collection will be used to achieve these objectives. We're burned, of course. We're stressed out because there's so much under there. Of course, the danger may be that we are going too far. I know about the problem. But I'm going to look through this because this is temporary and totally under special circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u36	Madam President. I'm not going to extend this discussion very much, but first of all, I'm going to make clear the warning I gave to the committee. I'd like to first say that this is probably the first bill on the release of ocean where we've had time to review the case. Of course, we are happy that we have taken time to tear down different viewpoints and to review matters that in themselves are not so complicated. What I still do as a comment, and I did to 1st. This point is that it was presented as a special business for the common people. I don't think all the public will feel these changes, except those who are in big business. Surely, though, this is a step toward the release that all of us have shared in and have short - lived. That's the problem. I agree that these steps are normal. I agree with the viewpoint that the committee discussed that it is only natural that we do not make the final transfer into the future. So, in itself, it was good to have time to take this discussion on a financial and business committee. It remains that we have a project ahead of us in terms of execution. The mission isn't over yet. It has been observed at this assembly that, despite the small will of the government, particularly in front of the election period, to agree with the opposition to the steps that should be taken, the opposition has shown in all these matters that it is ready to take a responsible position in them, so there is no need to be any reason to fear that there will be a change if there is to be a government switch in the country, as at times has been indicated. Government leaders. As for my warning, which is what I wanted to discuss, he is connected with it. paritaprevir Brurts the son of Níelsson, and whisk. paritaprevir The helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson discussed the above, i.e. ... informationexplanatory. I believe that the conclusion is perplexing that we try to follow Peritone's instructions to try to better determine what sources are available to the Council for Enlightenment and what interests are involved. It is important when we define such sources in law that they have interests in them. As mentioned in this article, there have been very rich interests in providing information sources. This is one of the things that were neglected in the leading tide of the crash, the observation of capitalism. It is important, therefore, that these sources exist, but it is also important to try to set them down and define them. What I want to say primarily with regard to my warning is that these sources are being narrowed down here. It is not excluded that we will need to review it. We will need to consult, and in this I stress, the General, the legislature, the Federal Bank and the Ministry of Economic Affairs on how this separation is possible and what problems may arise. I think that in these matters, we need to be ready to respond in reality to an unexpected situation. I believe that there was a good step in trying to resolve this, but I think we also need to keep our eyes open that it may be necessary to re-change these sources if they have been too narrow on this occasion. I believe we've tried to moderate in the way it was stepped up. As noted, there may be enormous national interests in the fact that we have a clear view of capital movements to and from the country, and it is very important that we do not create some barriers where we can overlook relevant sources. This is primarily what I wanted to say in terms of my judgment on the matter. I support this step, but I think we need to be alert to the development of these sources and whether they are defined in a clear and effective way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u37	President. Now we're going to talk about 2nd. for the emissions of capital resources. Now, one more step is being taken to remove the head of currency set up in late 2008, and then in the autumn of 2009, if I recall correctly. We in the United States have agreed and followed the government in this ideal period as well as the measures taken to release us from currency. This is a natural thing that people talked about in April, when people lost faith in politics and came together on the Eastfield and demanded an election in spring. We in the Union agreed, we wanted to have our votes chosen in spring, but then the people said we had to keep cutting the seas off and that's why we couldn't. Then they supplied a bill in June, and then we take this bill now. I think that the conduct of the government opposition and of our members of the United States on these matters will show that, although the government will be replaced, nothing will stop it from continuing on this course. In effect, I want to agree with what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. But it was noted in the Committee that it was necessary to schedule the next decommissionment step because it is here just one step. I agree with what happened. Jakobsdóttir That there is no need for a Christian to do so now, so I do not agree with the views presented to the committee that the next step would be required. It is said that the modern process will make it easier for the public to live in the land of currency. Now, in fact, much of the population in the country has not exactly been exposed to the fact that there was a currency capital. When I say it, I don't mean it doesn't matter that a currency guy is, I'm just saying, there's more than a few people who haven't had any particular problems with currency. It is true that the common people who have been involved in some small business with non-sized countries have had to do business with abroad, have had to wait a long time to get what you would call a natural payment. You may have had to wait up to eight weeks to move over a hundred thousand or fifty thousand dollars, something like that. How happy all of us must be to be able to free themselves of it! It is also a good time to open up more for the investment of the pension fund abroad because it is not good for the pension fund to have its need for investment, because it is certainly necessary to invest in the money they are responsible for, so much to tie it up in Iceland as it has been, because it is better not to have all the eggs in the same basket in case a basket should roll around its heads. It's a pleasure, a word can be used, it's a pleasure that we take this step here. But I'd like to miss a moment to mention the review of Iceland's High School of Economics, which was given the commission. According to the review, Iceland's Economic Institute for Economics feels that as long as they've been available, there was no need for currency. It gives evidence that those who live along with such things will always find a way to get by them. Iceland's High School of Economics also notes that the foreign people here with money, or euro, could have made it into the invitations of the Federal Bank, which may not have been the participation in which men might have hoped. The last time the invitation was last June, there was much less participation in it than humans had hoped for, and it naturally shows that the foreign people who are here with money are not in great interest in getting them out of the country. The review of the University of Iceland's Economic Institute of Economics is fascinating, and it made me think about it. But it's not for her sake that I sign in advance, not for that, and say that she should be followed and taken away from her head at once. I'm not such a cold, respectable President. My model to the committee looks to the information or information that can be collected by the Sustainer. It's a good thing it's been determined. I'm still saying that I feel a little nervous about a possible mismanagement of this information. There is a natural law on personal protection in the country and all the sources that are given, and it will be an institution, in this case, the Secret Bank, who intends to use access to the laws of personal protection, and who cannot use the information it collects except by the laws on personal protection and by average protection and by which public interest requires it to collect or use it. My lead is, in effect, that I feel that there is no need for them to do so, and it was mentioned in the Committee that such authorities may mispronounce them. I also found it interesting to hear and intend to come into it only because I have time, a more dignified president, i.e. the matter as a matter of course. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son earlier said that collecting too much information or information could lead to hacking, or some, getting into it. It's not good, it's just not good. I suddenly reminded me of pushing up the debt correction so much that it was approved here for Haust, reminded me, to collect a huge amount of information on the homes in this country, not on some major investors, but on all of us. It was discussed quite a bit here. I remember that I didn't see the need for it because I think in the general economy and information available, this great intelligence would have been unnecessary. So I voted against her. A respectable president. I wondered, " Where are all these data now? ' They were never used, they were never mentioned when the great correction that was so called was carried out, and a lot of money ran to people who did not need it directly. I remember they've never been used. I wondered: " Won't there be anything to reconsider if you're here saying that if you're here, you're going to need to reevaluate these sources to the Secret Bank to collect information, as the bill shows? Should we not wonder, then, if there is a need to adopt such laws on all the information collected in the country's homes that were permitted to prepare for the great correction? A respectable president. I don't need this anymore. We in the United States support the bill, and hopefully we'll be able to move on and take more steps in the months ahead. I hope we'll be free of some currency head soon. On the other hand, I think it's gonna be like that while we're in the Icelandic crown, there'll always be some kind of problem. There will always be a sort of head, but the smaller, the better. It is the sum of money, the small currency that is like a chef, which makes it always a rigid code, and the danger lies in it. A respectable president. I'm not gonna keep it this far, and I'm done with what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u38	A respectable president. I couldn't answer what I said. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter who spoke before. I would've wanted to answer her, but what. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir raised the same question that I would like to ask on and on information collection, Article 12. There are laws on the protection of Persia, and there is, of course, a moderate principle, then it is 71 stre. The constitution and all that. I insist that such legal precautions are not enough to ensure that data is being handled properly. It's really the minimum. This became very clear and has often been revealed in the case of Peritoneal Protection, which I shall say is one of my favorite institutions in the whole administration, one of them at all, that there is actually a law office, that is, in fact, an organization that is responsible for examining the legal aspects of matters, and not the valid questions about personal protection and privacy and all that, is our role here. Although people take good care of the data and stuff at the Federal Bank and beyond, which I'm sure, people do as best they can, however, there is always a risk of a crisis of data. Admittedly, there's quite a lot of information, not just about some major party, not just about banks, there's a lot of information about everything, or maybe not everything, but the majority of people who have financial stability. Since financial status is so important and money and business so big a part of human culture, it tells itself that while we need these surveillance provisions or sources of information, it will be more than reasonable because we have the crown and have such a fragile economy, such as that. A senator entered. That's why I wonder why. A senator feels too nervous about this collection of information, since there must be a possibility that it is far too much more than we would like. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u39	A respectable president. It may come anyway. I'm surprised a senator finds me unnecessary nervous about this, but I think so. I believe it is necessary to give the National Bank permission to monitor the details given to him. Like what? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson said earlier it is necessary to maintain financial stability here. If those responsible for doing so feel that they need this information, I'm ready to give it to them. I'm ready to say that I trust those organizations that take this to do it in the right and decent way. That's my point. It may well be. A senator thinks she's weird and wrong, but that's what I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u40	A respectable president. Trust 'em. A member of the U.S. Secret Service or Britain's Secret Service, or the Russian Trinitarian, or the Russian - speaking mob, rather? It's a real danger. There is a real danger that these data will go on and be abused, not by the Federal Bank itself, but by others. It is a real danger, as the examples must have shown over the past few years. It doesn't mean to pretend it's not there, it's there and it's very real, it's overwhelming and stable. It's quite typical, actually, the rule, that when events occur like 2008, the terrorist attack in New York 2001, or something like that, some catastrophe, some horror, the authorities often react by granting authority to do things you would not otherwise want. A man in general wouldn't want the police to need a search warrant. In general, you would not want thousands of people arrested and to make sure that the person received a just trial, as an example. There are these things that happen when people are trying to avoid the terrible, the terrible, the things that all of us are supposed to be afraid of. In this case, it's broken down. Then there is the danger that in a measure of nervousness - talking about nervousness - we begin to provide too much information. The danger must be real. I think if we approach the subject, with the attitude that we should simply do what is necessary, we forget to do it within the limits of human rights and democratic values in general, that we should do. It's our job at the council. It is not Persian protection or Supreme Court or the Navy or anyone else who will make sure that our values have value when we are dealing with such questions. We are the ones who have to deal with that question. Of course, there are rich reasons for doing this. I'm not cutting it down. I think these sources are probably necessary. I'm just pointing out that they still have dangers, even if you trust the Secret Bank, even if you think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u41	A respectable president. I appreciate this lesson. I thought that in my speech earlier, I had said that I was wondering why. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunns Gunnarsson of Gunns learnable and practical that the information collected can be misused, that it can be accessed, and so forth. That's what he said. paritaprevir Busts the son of Níelsson earlier, and I told them in my speech that I had found that I had been able to reason on these matters in terms of thought and thought properly. Of course, this can be misapplied. I was saying, however, a respected president, that according to my values and what is in this law, I think people are overly nervous about it. The Senator can think I'm stupid, that's okay, but that's my opinion. [[Not at all.]] I appreciate the lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u42	A respectable president. I'm going to ask, where there's a warrant, now at three, and that's Wednesday. Tomorrow, the council will complete according to a work programme, which clearly will not occur. I still have no news of anything going on or of some conversation going on. Well, yesterday there was something about the end of a meeting. That's all I know. I'd like to ask a respectable president to let us know if there's anything new in that subject, what the progress should be. Today's priorities are obvious in view of the program, but I don't understand what the Senate will be and I repeat what I said yesterday: I will come up here and ask for answers that will shed some light on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u43	The president is not aware of the issues. A senator asks, but he will be careful to communicate as soon as she is aware of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what's going on here. I think it's right to go to the president now that the end of a council meeting on this second most recent day of the Senate's election before the current programme, that he separates us from the plans here, whether or not there are any issues to be taken today and tomorrow's payoffs. We've run out of time, and we haven't received any information that the president intends to put his hands on that position. He talked about it yesterday, saying that he needed to get his hands on the project, that's how he put it. He even spoke of cutting the knot. There was a variety of language that he used to speak about the situation. I think we all have to worry about what we're gonna do next.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u45	A respectable president. I'd like to ask a respectable private president to send a message if possible to the person who would first hear about it, such as if some representatives of the greater part were discussing with any representative of my section or similar. I think it'll help if new information shows up, that every time a seated president announces it to the councilroom, so we don't have to spend all the time asking about it. Of course, it should be. It is unfortunate to say so specifically, and especially that it has to happen repeatedly. I realize a sitting president isn't why. 2.m. Northwestern district, but I would like a seated president to make an effort to keep the Senate hall informed of the course, too, if there is no news, because there is no news in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u46	The president is kindly and obliged to grant that request at any time. A senator he brings up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u47	A respectable president. I'd like to inform the president that, in view of the fact that there has not been an evening meeting and there are no plans, two committee officers have announced a meeting here at some point even called a lunch break, which is peculiar, since we will not continue our meeting after dinner. To attend a meeting after a meeting must call for some sort of agreement. In view of the fact that we are now in the final meters, I think we need to have an agreement on what one is. It is unannounced to have a meeting on the job board and a financial committee that has been announced without the president's intervention in any way that we agree that this is normal in the light of developments. I make serious comments to that, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u48	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill on currency, a case that I believe there's no trace of conflict in itself. This is a big business, with regard to the interests of all the people of the land, and some would say, though more were searched. Yet, there is reason to discuss the matter, although I must admit that after grating on the bill and passing through the changes there, I do not fully understand all financial factors. However, I see that there is a basis for discussing the information of Iceland's National Bank, as is true of all the cases in the Federal Bank. Well, that's my experience anyway. I don't remember discussing Congress or bill with regard to Iceland's National Bank without having to keep a brief fistula on information, and especially its Society's tendency to want more and more sources to gather information. First, I want to thank the Committee for making good comments about this subject, especially from the very well - behaved Persian institution. She made comments to the bill I can't see better than had been considered. The committee suggests changes that sharpen things, explain them, encourage them, and limit them, which is good in this case. The wording as it was on the bill was so wide that I can't imagine that any institution other than the Secret Bank wrote it. I'm gonna go over this for a minute. I think it's proper to mention that there is a legal institution in Persia. It is not an institution that has a political role in identifying national values for privacy or personal protection in itself. Rather, it is to provide advice and supervision to enforce personal protection and to be counselled by the General Assembly on whether legal matters will last 71.g. The Constitution and the International Convention on Human Rights Of course, it offers legal suggestions, but we cannot assume that there is a personal protection in the position of giving us some moral guidance. It points out that we need to evaluate whether these human rights and privacy are worth the effort to achieve the goals that the primarys are once meant to achieve. Now this bill cannot be reduced to as rich the financial interests of the people of the land as possible. It is, of course, in connection with the 2008 collapse and is designed to prevent financial damage to all the people of the country from subversive seas. It is a common goal that all of us must agree that it is necessary to do so. This does not mean that it is faultless. Many rightly claim, in my opinion, that the small and nature of the economy will always be in some kind of ocean. I think it's rather obvious, and it's inevitable. But from now on, it says that there is information available in the bill for Iceland's Federal Bank that goes beyond your own convenience. Hv. 5th a.m. Smoke. No., Braunsur Níelsson's son, came into my mind just before I was told that it was necessary to do so but also said that it was temporary and needed to be temporary. I think it's a little important to implicate in such information sources to the agency such as the Secret Service, an institution for which I have no reason to be suspicious or to mistrust or to misjudge or that the security issues are not in order or anything. I give myself in advance that Iceland's Secret Bank is by far the best in professionality, confidence, information management, whether it's in the context of law, technology, or morals, or one. This is not a suspicion of the National Institute of the United States of Iceland. In fact, I trust her with information very well, and she is the institution that I would probably trust best with them, of course, that, of course, I have not had some job to study in detail. All I know is that this institution has had to hold very tight the information and not know the example that there has been a few gaps around it. This is not a suspicion of the agency. This is a suspicion of information collection as a phenomenon, as a solution to problems. There is a natural problem with giving authority to institutions to collect and treat information. Then I am not minimizing the importance of having my authority. Of course, he needs them because the project is urgent and is certainly a matter of public interest. The problem, however, is that I can only see that this will always be of concern to the rich public interest, that Iceland's Secret Bank will always be needed to have these wealthy resources. I think these sources will be necessary for a very long time, in particular, as long as we have an Icelandic crown. As long as we're with the Icelandic crown, I'd say we'll have some kind of head that'll require these necessary documents. That's what I'm worried about. Now I can't help freezing a little bit while reading bills that are about the Secret Bank. I find it so obvious from the wording that it is written by the agency itself. It's not long before it's too late. The committee's committees make a difference to them. I'm going to take an example of number one. the bill to add a new paragraph in Article 29. Act on Iceland's Secret Bank, No. 36/2001. This is how the story begins, with President's permission: It is important for everyone to provide the information and information needed in order to promote prices and financial status of repairs. Volume 37, gt.How can I help you?.......................................................................................................................... Then it goes on and on. This should not in itself stumble anyone. It is only so obvious that when the word is inserted there, it must be possible to encourage the law more down and to specify more about the information and the data. This is just one of the objectives of the Federal Bank, which is to promote financial and financial stability, which is found in chapters 3 and 4. law on Iceland's Secret Bank, it's part of the bank's role, if not just the lead role. In my opinion, the committee will address the situation in an elegant way and suggest a change in word, which would substantiate it and better specify what is meant. But this is an example of how you see in the expression that there was a person writing in the source that was not worried that it was too extensive. The only agency I can imagine is that, as I can imagine, the Navy itself. Again: It's not because of suspicion or any disrespect for the agency I'm saying. I just think it's worth bringing this up, because it's not the first time, and I really doubt it will be the last. Of course, it's our job here at the Council to take up such terms and to set things up, because we have an institution to help us do so, and it's called Percontinental Protection, not the Navy of Iceland. As it was in our time when we discussed the economic situation in 2013, it is not the role of Iceland's Secret Bank to secure personal protection or privacy, it is simply not the role of the Agency. Moreover, it tells us, of course, that we cannot trust that institution to place appropriate restrictions in accord with that rights. The Agency's role is to ensure economic stability. That is an enormous task, and of course he focuses on it. This is not the Secret Bank in itself to dishonor, it merely reminds us of the importance of taking such a matter for material treatment, taking seriously the fact that there is information that has to do with the individual's rich interests and his human rights, you see 71. Presidential records of the Republic of Iceland. This is not all you can say about the matter. I wondered if my time will be enough to cover all of this. There are two articles in the bill that change in two tracks that deal with this information collection test all over the world. It's as we have seen. The bill with regard to Article 14. Law on Pension, No. 87/1992. Then it's 16. The bill, but its 1st figure, is about a change in law No. 36/2001, i.e. The Act on Iceland's Pentateuch, and the 2nd Amendment is a change in the European Commission on the Treatment of Cities that depend on specific restrictions, No. 37/2016, which I must admit, is not as thorough as the change in Iceland's Secret Bank and the Bank of Remuneration Act, which is where I see the main interest in information collection. Twenty-nineth. current U.S. Federal Bank, No. 36/2001, according to a law passed by the Council at its time, appears in the previous court, by permission of the president: It is granted that the wood should be added at the end of the day. Thirty-seven. g., supplying all the information and information needed by the bank. It's in the law already. This was added in 2013, in more detail the summer in a case that we were posting on the Secret Bank, which discussed the information collection of the Federal Bank. If I recall correctly, that discussion was in line with the economic situation of the same year, the subject of fire baptism was to deal with the UN Bank information collections and the case of the Haust Office. I mention this because the first time I read the bill we're discussing here, I noticed that there was a request for authority that seems to be there already. To identify where the lack of authority is needed, you need to see a little bit of the text. You feel as if every time the bill comes for the Secret Bank, you're asking for authority that you already have. You're starting to experience it, so you always need to be on guard against the Federal Bank when you have bills that are involved in his role. There is always a request for more authority, and the council always needs to resist. It is in itself a healthy exercise, the General must totally handle it, especially when we have the Persian protection to help us. But if you grow more in the text, you can see that it is usually defined as a legal entity, financial, financial, or financial companies, or similar, in the text. I want to thank the Committee again for taking it okay, and I'm going to set up this bill's terms so that it is clear what information is involved and which authority, you see, and not everybody. Some would say that it was not necessarily enough. Now, I just need to look up to make sure that I'm talking about the right article, but here's an example that might sound boring, but I hope it's heard that it's in the context of the word "Kate" was used in the example I read earlier from the bill. The number 7 of the changes made by the Economic and Business Committee are suggested to make this new case sound like this, by permission of the president: The National Bank can also provide information on property and financial commitments in foreign currency, such as direct investments, financial investments, other investments in potential financial gains, loan exchanges, commitments, consequences of exchanges, and remunerations and other debts. This is followed by a further application of this, according to 1st and then. The 2nd case should be delivered in the form decided by the Hunsaban. All right. If this sounds like a boring list of some financial and financial interests that most people don't have much to think about, it's good, because, of course, this is supposed to be clear, it's supposed to be set. Information and data are not to be talked about solely or simply from everyone. It is important that this be taken into account. That caught my attention earlier today when we were discussing this with two young men. In advance, members of the Parliament signed the committee's opinion because they were concerned that the law may have been overly tight. It would have to be revised. I'd say it was the other way around. This law may have to be made now, but it better be revised later. Then I come to what I would like to leave in this talk. There are, of course, special times that require certain warrants for Iceland's Secret Bank. I won't belittle it. It's always this way when there are major events like the 2008 collapse or the 2001 terrorist attack in New York City or something that calls for strong reactions, and people want to make sure they never happen again, and the lawman's going too far. You can point to the United States after 2001. I'm not going to claim that the same value here regarding the collapse of 2008, but it's not likely that we're going too far out of fear of what we've just been burning on. You can see that more than a financial breakdown can be burned. The widespread violation of human rights can be burned. If it is accepted because good people want to make clear laws well - intentioned and for good reason, authorities who are not as good and do not go so well to abuse such authority in their own favor. That threat is real. The entire constitution has been written to emphasize this fact and to prevent the wicked authorities from using needed human rights only for a purpose that is absolutely necessary to achieve a purpose, as in this case, to keep us from falling apart from something else. Therefore, because we are in this special situation and need to be careful about this, it is important that we recognize that we reexamine this. It must have to happen sometime. Here's the problem. After this bill becomes the law, and I assume that there will be a law at this council, there has no reason to believe that it will end again, that I think it is perfectly clear, but when the bill of change and motion is made. The Economic and Business Committee is now developing some kind of legalization. There will still be limitations. When will they be relieved? But there must be other steps. In this step it is important that these sources be revised, not to expand them, but to push them down and remain removed, since they are no longer absolutely necessary to maintain financial stability. Then I mean necessary, not ideal, not ideal, but necessary. This means that when it comes to limiting people's rights for privacy, they must be of need and of rich public interest. We haven't made it through the years here at the Generals... to stay within the limits I believe normal in the light of the 71th par. The Constitution or international agreements on human rights. The economic situation was ultimately proved to me that the council is not entirely qualified to remain unchanged in defending this important human right. We're not qualified. That's one of the most boring lessons I've learned in my brief session. Second, if we don't take further steps to clear our heads after this bill has become a law, if this is become a permanent situation, we need to start thinking a little bit of the box about how we're going to conduct Secret Service of Iceland and other institutions to collect information. We'll have to face the fact that as long as we've paid off, we'll be in the head and we'll need such authority to collect such a load of information just to remain in Iceland with an Icelandic crown. [[The president calls.]] That reality makes me very uncomfortable. I hope, as time goes on, the Council will show efforts and ambitions to try to regain what once seemed to be a form of privacy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u49	Madam President. We're here discussing a big case that you would have intended for more attention in view of how many have been that the big and important step people want to mean that, as some say, disintegration of the currency burglary should be one of the priorities of this council. That, in itself, is an excellent solid solidarity. There is no interest in delaying it if you can take reasonable, balanced steps in this regard. [[Upwards: none of the administration categories.]] That's why you might as well have expected to go to the highest. Financial and economic ministers and president or head of the Economic and Business Committee would be here for the discussion. I would have been interested in asking these people a few things, perhaps getting the opportunity to do so later at the end of my speech. I don't think there's a doubt that the deposit of the currency bills back in the day was inevitable. For the whole time, I think it has served us well. This was essential that we were relatively soon able to establish orderliness and defend our national standings through the seas, although no one would put them on for some pleasure. After considering, there were ideas that after some six months, they could be taken away completely unrealistically. They were never created and probably never could have been created, including for the reason we didn't have any currency. We ran out of foreign currency in the fall months of 2008. Foreign financial markets and loan opportunities are cut off. There was little to discuss. Of course, the crown's success changed it relatively quickly simply because the physical economy persisted, and exports and competitions continued to produce valuables. A number of them are bad. However, the consumption and import of the people of the country declined strongly. After the Crown's gang had fallen, he was an expensive creature. This soon led to the growth of foreign trades. Some executives have talked about execution. That it's a bill of execution. Of course, such labels are not important. I don't like it when people use wrong names on things. It's not abduction of the budgets, I'm afraid I'm glad to say. I'm not sure that it would be wise to throw them away altogether. No further witness is needed than to read the first article of this bill. What does it say? By permission of the President: ▪ All capital motility according to 1 mg. [...] is prohibited. With the exception of capitalists, which are shown to be due... And then come the releases. The principle that capitalization is not being reversed and from the land is not free. They're forbidden unless they fall under an exception. In other words, the capital is still a people. But it is true that here are the first significant steps to set aside the rules considerably. All listed there for the sake of goods or services, businesses, wages, gifts, and sponsors, interest, rent, payments, and advance payments on loans and other such items. However, the principle remains: There is an exception or permit for capital movement unless they fall clearly under the exception, are of the nature, or are at the low level of money that they do not stumble on the roofs. This is, of course, because humans want to take this deliberate step and keep a specific control device, can control large capital movements that could otherwise have a major impact on the currency market. This will be a mixture of speed limits to companies like pension funds that will receive them some doses for foreign investments, as they have, in fact, done these past losses, and so directly, that certain large movements are required to be reported and allowed. In fact, the harbor bank intends to monitor these movements far beyond what is opened, which is quite normal. However, this will lead to what is truly enjoyable, that all the majority of the public and company stop noticing that this is a capital capital capital capital because they can do their daily business and buy their travel fees and what it is now without having to stand in line, e.g. at the ATM in Cheflavík, as if flung at the unnamed international council members when the oceans were cuckoo in the fall of 2008. I suppose there were some advocates of freedom in these matters. Of course, it is good to be able to make such a difference. That's why I have no particular concern. Of course, there are the big movements that are lipy in these materials, and there is a spray screen and there is a danger of such things, which are always dangerous. Now people are trying to learn from bitter experience, and the Navy has got a control device that he thinks is sufficient, that I know best, to resist the growth management and the prowess of that kind. We're probably not going to start making new snow hangings while there's considerable growth differences between Iceland and other countries. In so doing, we are to some extent protected from the practice of prophesying. Still, it's all very difficult. The circumstances are very special. It is said to report with the bill, to some extent in the Committee of Economic and Business Committees, and to eat up after each other, that the circumstances for decommissionation, emissions, their rights, are very favorable and, in most cases, considered beneficial. Yeah. Under these circumstances, much of it can be taken. Yet, they are unusual. We've had a lot of money in the last few losses. It's been very successful, it's because of the growth of tourism and some of the investments. It has enabled what kind of person needs to pinch his arm in order to believe, that we have acquired a fairly handsome currency reserve on a few losses. There's a situation where we didn't exactly dream of here when we had absolutely no currency in 2008 and long 2009 and we had to take it all up to a loan we pulled in to build up shelters to make sure that we had to pay the payments that were falling on the ground in 2010◯2011 and to make sure that there would be no payment on the part of the state or big people who had to pay heavy loans so that they would definitely be paid to meet all of these. But now the bat has purchased an enormous amount of currency, of which just $2.5 billion this year. The year before, 270 billion were bought last year, making it a total of 500 billion in dollars bought in the market of foreign currency and put into the escape as a debt of his debt. This is now the largest and much more of the way to go without opposing foreign loans. This, of course, is enormously important, and one of the reasons was needed. Of course, we could have arrived at a temporary debt - free discharge, but it is dangerous to use the loan reserves that are borrowed and to be paid later, perhaps within a few years. It immediately puts pressure on the state's status on a global financial market, etc. Of course, this is all very enjoyable, that, if it did happen, we can now take on some of the payments or emissions without actually being exposed to danger. But more is involved. I'm just as worried about that. The Icelandic crown has been strengthened by 11%, measured in a certain way, by a total of about 20% in the last two years. The Icelandic crown now reviews what the Navy considers is a balance success. In other words, it is already strong in comparison with the standards used by the Sustainer when trying to figure out what was a balanced approach. This is a factor in the fact that an old safety signal that has always been, the product exchange equation, has become nonsenseing negative. So this year we are importing something between 70 and 100 billion more than we are exporting. What would that have told us back in the day? Yes, there would have always been a possibility of a lot of trouble in a few minutes. But we got away with it because of the adventurous growth of tourism. The service equation is so handsomely positive that we can live in a baloney store, yet the result is a plus. Of course, this is because the currency supply for tourism or tourism and transportation that are probably of that category has become so massive. It is estimated, if I remember correctly, that this year it will be 430 or even 450 billion, e.g. grows the maps of foreign tourists, their numbers, and all of them. This will even be more than 500 billion next year. True, it is the gross, which simply means that tourism will leave other currency crop articles in smoke. She's over the third. She's about to fight 40% of all the currency of the population farm. But that also means that we have become so dependent on this one article. A swing there would come with great weight into the currency equation and walk. In other words, the Icelandic economy is no longer built on cod, but on tourists, if we use the old simplicity when the largest individual variable was always the cod, what was caught by it, and what price we got for it on foreign markets. We have become far more dependent on the traveller than do we dare in our time or until a few years ago. There is also much to consider. Of course, you hope that things will work out well and that plans will work out that your entire business balance will be positive for the next three years. I see the banks assume it is, but everyone expects the rest to decline considerably. The consumption and import are growing very fast, the product export does not improve anything, in part, because the aluminium prices are low, etc. Then you bet on the interest in tourism. However, this is a very quick article. Cash swings, gang swings, have always been one of the worst things to do here. You can't tell if you're going over the scenario, whether it was worse for us, though the reflection of the mirror, the unrealistic display of the crown, and the successes that follow when there's no balance. We have often been badly treated when the imbalance has been built up through the process, when the crown's gang was way too strong. The most famous of these materials are the years before a collapse when people allowed the inexhaustible influx of foreign loans and, in part, into the wax trade, and when the level of absolute unrealistic success was maintained. In the 1980's, we were also badly treated when we got caught up in a bullshit inflation and now the only government was blown up. I'm gonna mention it here because we need to be very careful here. Of course, this would not be a concern if we were to make room for the seas rather than the other. But that cannot be predicted with full certainty. The pressure's up. How long can the harbor bank buy, be a major commodator on the market? If he stops, what happens? Perhaps in connection with this corrosion of the oceans, they would have said: " This is not a reason to take the risk that the Navy will continue its purchases. Let's just let it all get better and see what happens. But then, at least for some time, the effect could also be a continuing force. Then I think I'll start building major dangers. In other words, I would have been very interested in hearing what the deep economic and business committee and its executive, and that's why it's the highest. Economic and economic ministers have been able to deal well with these issues. Of course, it is only natural for us to discuss all of this together when we take such steps, how well we are set up, and how we know that these things can work together without trouble and without any balance in such matters. If we face this, the main reason why we are speaking of ourselves as being in this position is the adventurous growth of tourism. We would not be talking about the good conditions to eliminate a currency head if only the tourism had kept seawater for the past three, four years, and we would be with 70 to 100 billion angles in the balance of goods. Then I'm afraid they'd say, "Wait a minute, it's not good." That would not be so. Of course, it would be somewhere else. All of this affects one another. But there are also many ways in which tourism can be a trigger, such as because of changes in economic order. We do not yet know how this 20% force of dwindling gangs gradually over the course of two years will affect our tourism as we add that because of the growth, the prices in this country have completely flared up. Everyone knows that e.g. The price of restaurants here in downtown, the price of wine, or anything else, has become quite fairy tales. But they can do it because it's all night after night. And they even pay seven. A dollar for an average wine bottle, which costs less than 2 you. K. Get out of the state. It's just the way it is. When could there be a setback? I'm not talking about if I continue to grow stronger or something else, which is always hard to predict. The problem is, when an article has grown almost as a product of this kind, 20 to 30% years from year to year, it all moves on to the growth. You build a hotel, you order into the truck fleets in order to meet the interest normally. That's what they're trying to do. But that means that not even a contraction, but all of a sudden, zero growth could be like a shock to this article. If the new hotels could not be added each year, they would be cleaning up. We must try to analyze such underlying factors as we consider how strong the situation is. I have to confess, Madam President, that there is something that is only unpleasant in the back of my head when I think of these matters, that we may be a little asleep about facing certain dangers that are drawing up. That's it. I want to be optimistic and believe that this is going well, but I'm saying just as it is that I feel more comfortable with slower growth, such as. in travel service. Then I would have more faith that this could continue for at least without the danger of relapse. I have no experience in history that something can grow for years or even decades almost power - growing without having an end to it. History teaches you that. Although only for other reasons such as those involved in the nature of the country and more and more of the tolerability towards everything, the nature, the infrastructure, the people of the country, etc., I think we need to start looking out for ourselves. Therefore, it might be a bit risky to think that this adventureful waste of tourism is enough for us to continue sailing with full sails, even though we have reached a considerable angle in the trade balances and so forth. I'm thinking of not getting involved in a deep discussion that has been conducted here on the information collection of the Federal Bank and Article 12. I felt that an authority was well aware of this and that the committee had made changes at 12. to well-preserved and well-preserved data. That's all I can see. Of course, I agree with the importance of being able to get started on that subject, not having unnecessary or completely open and undefined sources to demand any information. Of course, no one desires it, I think, and not the Navy himself. He has no interest in anything except what he has to do with it, and he needs it because of his responsibility and work. But it is our job to make sure that it is reasonable in the law. It seems to me that the adjustments were made to a certain criticism that the bill settled, as it turned out. So that's what it was, Madam President. Although this is a little late for a while, at the last record of this council, it would have been a time to take a little kitchen day here on economic and currency when such large issues are en route through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u50	A respectable president. First, I want to state support for the idea. A senator came along at the end, having a special kitchen day on economic and currency issues. It is probably the political case that has been the main source of anger after a collapse, some say e. Kr., who's left of a recession. But far from it, I'd like to say as a citizen. A senator for some time, so I am not new to hear a word. A senator on economic matters, that I've noticed over the years, long before a collapse, though I've never been a left-green sponsor, that it was, in fact, a whisker. A senator and his party, who warned that this could go bad. So I pray to hear it now. A senator may speak even if we do not agree on everything in politics. Hv. A senator gave a fine speech at the outset that this is not an amassing the capital, currency capital, or what to call them, but is only changing them. That is why, especially with the information I have so much concern about the future, despite a fine job. Economic and Business Committee: Will we ever have an Icelandic crown without having it in any kind of oceans, and, of course, with some authority, such as the Sensitors or other surveillance agencies that watch that things aren't going downhill? I wondered because I know why. A senator and his party are not in favor of the European Union, but they say that this is the only way to pick up coins. In fact, over time I have become less religious. But I'd like to hear some attitude. A senator about that. [[The president calls.]] Will we not always be headed in one way or another?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u51	Madam President. That brings us back to the question of names. When we were discussing the present crisis, it was emphasized by others that these were the means of capitalism. This would not in itself be a currency head in the old sense because we needed to do a currency and not have enough of it, for that in itself was a waste and a daily need. They were capitalists because the economy was so unprotected and exposed to abduction because of large capital movements. Of course, this space here is moving even farther away from being a currency head. These have become even more selective capitalists of large movements. Is that a currency head, is it? Yes, perhaps we can say that it is yet to be mentioned. But if the next step may be further improved by this, increases in the amount of money, and, in fact, mainly solved by what is sometimes spoken of as some kind of national response tool, a chance to intervene, to break off some very large movement, I feel that it is considered to be a matter of opinion whether it is proper to speak of things that have gone down. Then I ask, "What's wrong with that? " Why don't we talk about it first? Does it hurt? Is it undesirable that we have some precautions to protect ourselves? I don't think so. I'm not afraid to say that. And it is not necessarily certain whether a person has a bigger or less currency. Why would an independent economy not have caution tools that they can use to protect their economy and their communities from harm? I'm no particular amateur to see that a failed attempt will again be repeated to try to skim the whole state of consciousness and to look asleep at all speeds of fragility. [[The president calls.]] Well, then I'd rather have some really good care.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u52	A respectable president. My problem is, I kind of agree. A senator, but more for political reasons than a prince's reasons. I really don't like having these limitations. That is not to say that I oppose them because they can be necessary, just because of circumstances that arise. A senator was describing. If we have a floating crown and we're not tracking it, we're not seeing it because we're living in a tiny economy. And even if there was something bigger, it would always be possible, even if only because of the economic design of the economy, because of what we represent to be valuable, because of the fishing route and the tourism industry and other industrial branches, which are actually exports. The reason I feel bad about these seas is not because I think it's important to get 100 billion people from abroad, but because of the surveillance it demands, as a man needs a police officer, more of the police as the problem is bigger. I'm not against the fact that there's a police force, but I think it's so important to keep it under control, and I want to need it as little as possible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't want to need any heads. That's mostly what I put in my place when it comes to the oceans. [[The president calls.]] Whether this should be called a currency head or a capital master, I'm not sure. I don't care, as long as we're clear what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u53	Madam President. To answer that question a little bit better, I'll say yes. I am absolutely convinced that the crown can be our independent currency without any restraint, any restrictions. But it will cost certain things, and I'm not sure it's worth it. I'm not sure that's fair. It will cost us a lot of money to keep. We must then have a wealth of state and well-deserved, with rest, and it could also mean that we must maintain a higher interest between Iceland and other countries. While much of this is positive in itself, it can also cost a lot. Perhaps it is more realistic and reasonable to build it on one of these routes and have the national emissary equipment available if necessary. I remember asking that question to the Canadian bank manager about the President's recording of the canadadolla what he said about this. Is it realistic that we can have our coins without any restraint? And he said, Of course. But then you just have to do what it takes to do. [[The president calls.]] The foundation must then be very strong. It will cost you something in this sense. You must maintain such a strong position. Then you can do it. It was the man who is now the bank manager of the Bank of England.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his excellent speech. The Senator rightly says that this is not an amassing of the oceans, they are being cleared somewhat, but he adds that it is hardly reasonable in the present situation to make room for them as much as is being done here. The question, of course, is, Is it over my head reasonable, as it were only in the answers? I wanted the senator to be able to determine the limitations of these changes into values that he believes would be the most important factor in making room. What are some of the limits we might face, or would it be good to get rid of the remainder of the changes? And perhaps on the other hand, whether the senator is concerned about waxing business. We had a number of experiences with them back then, and it certainly did not work out well. Of course, the late banker has left behind a growing trade that includes them in human society, in moderation if they are good. The senator is concerned about that, even. As a result of the progress and growth process, is it possible for us to reevaluate life as a result of these changes?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u55	Madam President. I don't know where to bring them down with what should clear more in the next round. However, some would probably think that these 100 million totals a year to number 6 2 mg. a-arms 1. would be a sum of money that could be so much higher. Some would probably say that and others could not buy just one house a year or something like that. There's still stuff in there. But I think the most important provisions are that the products and services trades in general are the ones behind this and the currency of people to travel, and things like that aren't on the limits. It's the space I think most people, on the one hand, and on the other, are going to feel. It's not much more to pick up. The question, then, is whether to raise some of the roofs of these large movements. Regarding my waxing business, I immediately became agitated when they began to scour them back here. I immediately became it in the fall of 2005 when they began, if I recall correctly, rather than 2004. I remember then I got some men from the National Bank Pension Department to see me and talking to me as the president of the Left Green. By then, there were 40 billion who had entered the wax - crumbling trade in the autumn. I found it a lot of money, and I asked, "Don't you worry about it? No, they weren't so worried about it. Wait a minute. Didn't this end up at 7700 billion? In the economy, it had become so fanciful. That's why I'm a spokesman for the fact that people are very quick on the brakes, if that happens. Happily, the force has been lower than any fear because of the foreign inflation, so low, that the Caribbean has not been able to bring up the growth, as it did repeatedly in dress contracts. And he has come with the binding potential, the binding potential, which is designed to block it down. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I've considered it to be so or heard that he thinks it's sufficient for now and then that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u56	Thank you. The senator's answer and the warning. I think there is good reason to keep your eyes open when it comes to waxing business, such a problem they faced. But because the senator generalized economic developments on the subject, how remarkable it is that we are to finance the exchange of goods with the service equal! When it goes with the fact that we have reached the position of being an Internet possession country abroad, i.e. you have more possessions abroad than you have from a foreign debt, you wonder, " What is the basis for this interest here and in neighboring countries? ' When the service equation gives us positive results and a foreign source has become that way, is it not that in many respects the basis for the high interest in the land, which was to finance a home that is now gone? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u57	Madam President. A little more about waxing business. We also need to look to the world's situation when we consider ourselves at risk in this regard. It is not for a wealthy garden to pay to achieve good results in short - term financial volumes, as is true of interest in neighboring countries and the economic situation. Therefore, this has been happening here and there, although connected with the euro, they have been better able to find it, the Swiss, New Zealanders, Danir, because they are still buying it as such. We need to be careful. Iceland could suddenly fall in and get into fashion, enough is the interest difference. I think the interest level has been way too high. I must say exactly as it is that, of course, you can be wise afterward, looking in the rearview mirror, but I weep for all the money that has gone into this high growth when it turns out that due to low oil and raw prices, and because of the crown's funding, there has been no inflation pressure. If not, there would have been an increase in housing on the real estate scale. Of course, one might have felt that the interest should have been much lower. [[The president calls.]] It is far better that they are so low if the zebra later feels that he has to raise them, rather than raise them to a much higher position.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u58	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for this speech. There was a good understanding of the economic issues and the problems we are always facing in such a small independent economy. Of course, we are always following our tails, always trying to deal with situations. Just as we need to react when the growth differences get too big and there's going to be influx. We need to respond to the rapid growth of tourism here. It's all a problem. This analysis was fine. I'm not quite sure that everyone is as cheap on the economic issues of his own party, but I'm not talking about the former members now in the United States, that they have this understanding of the problems we face. Because of what? A senator asked if we had not been asleep in these dangers, but the answer is no. We're not sleeping over it. We're worried. That's why there's a lot of caution in the bill. We think about a precaution, how to handle it. This emissions e.g. is to respond to a massive influx, that we have the possibility of taking more out to cope with this situation so that the crown's strength will not be further increased. It is quite right that, in my opinion, it is quite a part. We're always dealing with this, and we've already made a device that allows us to do it. Hv. A senator spoke a little about the travel service, that it grew, and that it could be reduced, perhaps with much more to be left behind. I think, and I ask the senator if he agrees, that the crew can be expected to be reduced if tourism investments get pulled together, if tourists shrink. I'm sure it holds to some extent. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator not agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u59	V.E.G. President. Yes, it is true that when there is considerable structure and investments, the temporary balance of goods for the worse can be completely justified if there are good and profitable investments for the future. It is being replaced and purchased quite a few of the productions and transportation equipment. It had become urgent and necessary. They are present, although they are transiently more import than export. I also agree that now emissions or evacuation are in a way similar to the risk of too much influx and overinvigoration of the crown. Of course, it is the ideal situation to take the more risk that there will be some efflux when, in itself, it may be economicly good that it will stop the crown's funding, which I do not back up fully to the highest limit of what is reasonable for us in the long run. I simply think there's a pretty hard place to see if there's something going on, that the exports and competitions will start to lose their energy. All of this, however, is a question of some of the buttons that meet together and that need to work out the best balance. It's good to know that the Economic and Business Committee has tried to cross this. I had no doubt about it, the fine committee has worked it as well as has been given to the Secret Bank and other special people in that regard. I think we should have complete confidence to take these steps. We've been doing pretty well up until now. I'd like to thank the Sustained Bank that he's repeatedly shown that he's been the problem. He's often spoken against, and he's being scolded for too much interest, etc. But my experience with him in these years, since 2009, is that he has been very successful in carrying out the test and yet is not an envyable privilege for one bank of credit to be asked to perform a currency head. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u60	V.E.G. President. I hear that me and what. A candidate agrees on this in all the main points and agrees that this bill is not just good but even necessary in the present circumstances. I think we'll probably agree on it too, too, that it's a big problem in such a small economy with its own currency to stay stable, not lose control. It takes so little to disrupt it. That is why it is so important that we have resources to respond and respond quickly. Of course, the economic regime is always such that, as I said earlier, we're following a little tail of us, reacting to some situation. Perhaps the biggest problem for us now is that our major European business countries are still in a lamoid rush, which makes it difficult for us to do our business. But we must keep on the watch and have the resources needed to cope. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u61	Madam President. Yes, there is much harmony with what we are saying. In itself, I don't think there's any serious disagreement about this, unless it's simply about the end point in this, whether it's practical or beneficial for us to have an independent currency or not. We know a difference. One thing is clear, and the experience should teach us long ago, that it is a challenge and requires great responsibility and discipline if we are to try to have an open economy with an independent currency. They require special responsibilities in these matters. I just went over what I think they need. We need a strong deposit, we need a hold on money, a low debt status, etc. A person must not indulge in careless or sleep disorder in that matter. Therefore, it is very important that each step of life be handled carefully and see if we are reasonably safe with what is under it. [[The president calls.]] That is why I have meditated on these matters, perhaps more for myself than for others.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u62	A respectable president. Speaking of sleeplessness and carelessness, I wonder: it's now more than ten minutes over four, and I'm asking again as if I've asked before and will continue to ask, as if it were a matter of business and probably under these circumstances, whether there's something to know, when we can expect something to know, and if there's no news, it's good to know, too, because it's under these circumstances. I've been through this before, and I'm gonna keep going through this until I'm ready to react. I heard in front of me earlier that some executive said there was some kind of filamentist going on. Here we are using the time to talk about and ask questions that need to be asked. This is where we need to ask. And if they want a solution at the council, they need to talk about what the Senate should be like for the next week or weeks or how it is. Knowing if they are trying to figure out what they're going to contribute to this is the question. [[The president calls.]] I'll join them in a good time. A senator who spoke about this in the hall, it's time to save all the time in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u63	The president would like to mention that, as he said before, the same kind of inquiry of which. A senator does not know that there is something being heard about the matter. A senator asks about it and will express it as soon as it changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u64	A respectable president. One has an understanding that it will take the highest. One day the prime minister is picking up the head of the forward party and that it is time for them to negotiate on which issues to be emphasized here. But we at the council can't live with this situation anymore. During noon radio news, the wonderr of the news agency appeared on the scene. The president of the last council simply refused to make a meeting after the work programme was published, unless the government had a priority on the list. I believe that's where we're going now. It is pointless to sit here just to allow this government to give the nation the image that everything is going on here. The government does not cause its project, she cannot decide what subjects she wants to get along with. Then the chairman of the Senate is to defend the council against this kind of harbing, as we may now see from the government and simply do nothing for a meeting. So it is my request to the president that he present it to the presiding committee. It is my keen desire to follow the example set before, that it will not be announced to a council meeting until the top priority is made to the administrative body. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u65	A respectable president. Contrary to what many may think, members of the council have something else to do than to be in a Senate hall and talk. It's no problem to make good use of your time here. All he needs is to use his head to find out what the rest will be like. In view of what happened. 4th, including We're out of here. mentioned earlier about what? The head of the forward party and the highest. Prime Minister, I wondered, " Is this a question of having two candidates, certainly Honor and Honor, speaking together? ' If that's the question, then you must put it in context with an upcoming Presidency. If that's what's stopping the council, we should just skip this council until it's clear and we can start talking. At least I don't understand why we're doing this here without talking to each other. I really don't understand. I don't understand why men don't just talk to each other. What's so hard about it? What should be so unfair about that requirement?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u66	A respectable president. This council is becoming the sheepliest. It was interrupted during spring meetings in a rather fine manner and was handled with a number of Senate matters, objectively and well, and arranged to be gathered for a short assembly in the fall and there would be no new assembly at the beginning of September. It was the promise of Bjarni, son of Benediktsson, chairman of the Independence Party. Now the promise has been cheated by extending the old council to the new council that was never to be held. Here, the Senate continues day after day and week after week beyond the work programme, complicated, with no apparent eyes at the council, or to follow up on the issues in this room. [[The president calls.]] The President of the Parliament is supposed to follow a work programme and complete his work tomorrow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u67	A respectable president. I simply draw conclusions from a statement made by the prime minister that he is going to speak to the front of the government that he is talking to the head of the forward party because he is not speaking to the presidents of the formal administration parties. As we all know, there is one of the most powerful governments in the country, which is now in possession. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, former prime minister. Then the members of the Independence Party pass through the halls and say: It is only best to postpone this council until next week, because nothing will happen here and no decisions will be made until after the forward party party party party. The government is inactive, the prime minister is afraid to take a stand, and it can't outrun the competition with the former prime minister. Of course, when no one knows what the government really wants, it is no part of the council to continue the Senate. The lack of advice is absolute. Here are one or two members of the board, either if there is a member of the council hall, to be taken over, no less or less, which was to be the major case that the government was to continue on. [[The president calls.]] This is beneath the council. The President must stop attending meetings in this situation until the government brings in a list of priorities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u68	V.E.G. President. It is strange to hear the talks of the chairs now that have been proud of the success of the Senate work, the good they have done, and the good they have done. This place is full of big, important interests for the nation. We're supposed to keep talking about them as long as we can. It's not about us, it's about our duty, getting important issues through here that are more and less solid. Very big, very important business. We are not to stand here arguing with the president of the council on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u69	A respectable president. It must be made a comment to a talk or two. paritaprevir Dozen's Brynjar Níelsson's armor is that, of course, it's about us, the people who work here. The problem is that the declarations that the government office has given over the Senate and in the manner in which the matter was arranged here do not exist. Over and over. It is not the promises made by the directors of the administrations. The dates submitted, the schedules being made. It is this way at the council, as in other human relationships, that it is important for a person's word to stand still and to trust in or put aside the plans and dates in that subject. [[The president calls.]] The President's following it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u70	A respectable president. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson says that there are many national issues, many of the government's priorities, of course, that we need to address in this council hall. But that has been the big question in the past three, four months. Are these cultures and other things? Is there a problem with Minjaus? Or are we talking about surrogacy or sailing laws? Real estate records? What are we talking about? That is exactly what we have been asking for in the last three months; what are these blessed priorities of the government? There are so many things inside. It's almost impossible for the government to announce new issues in every news lesson. It's just a matter of taking a personal courtesy at the U.S. Congress to tell us how to set priorities for our time. I think it's a matter that's being discussed now very important, but maybe a government cruise law is important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u71	President. We keep asking questions. The President made it very clear in the television news last night that it was quite clear that tomorrow's Senate cannot be completed as planned. I disagree with him, but I can do nothing but say that I disagree with him. Then I think the next step is that the President of the Parliament will tell us what he thinks will last a long time next week. Are we talking about two or three days of Congress, or are we talking about all week? Are we even talking about a council in mid - October? Is that in the cards?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u72	The president assumes that the president and the chairman of Congress will soon decide what to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u73	A respectable president. I want to go through this matter a few words when it comes here at 2nd. It is interesting, perhaps a symbol of the lack of judgment and the solution at the council, that is now 2nd. The case that the government was conceived of is that no one is in the hall except the highest. The president and the one standing here. You have to ask yourself, " Is there any government object left in this country? ' In this case, I think it's important at first to look at the prehistoric existence of the currency burglars. Of course, when we now look back, it was important that the currencyors were put back, and they were forced defenses, which were inevitable, I think we can agree now to resort to a crash. It wasn't so when we sat on the council committee, as it were, on dark November evenings and discussed this matter far into the night, and it was settled at five o'clock in the morning after much discussion at the Assembly Hall and on committees. As a result of recent developments, this decision was inevitable. The economic conditions that occurred in the fall of 2008 will, in fact, be regular in Iceland because Iceland is a small country and a young country, and hence a country of borrowing, borrowing more than domestic savings. We borrow a lot when it comes to success, and when risk increases in the international financial system, risk laws increase, loaners want to increase security, and the money comes back out. In Iceland they always have to go through the currency market, and then the currency cools like a rock. This occurred in Iceland in one night of 2008 and in many ways deceived the world's view of collapse because the world's early world experience was that in Iceland there was going to be a completely special event that was basically different and different in principle than the rest of the international financial system. It was later revealed that it was not. Other countries had parallel problems. I specifically mention the borrowing countries on the edge of the European Union, Greece, Spain, Portugal. There, however, money went back to the countries that had borrowed large sums of money, Germany and the Netherlands, but it went through the bond market and caused no collapse in one night, such as here but for long periods of problems in the economy of these countries. Interestingly, it was the World Bank and his experts who recommended the handling of the currency registers. I remember the managers of the labour market parties who were like Tómas, who wanted to feel the nail marks in order to know that it was really that the representatives of the International Bank Fund were speaking for currency heads. But the situation was so difficult that they could see no way of controlling the inflation that we were dealing with other people. It was also inevitable to place the currency capital because of the unskilled government of the Federal Bank at that time. When the bank decided to lower its control height in one night and then had to rise again, as well as when the Sullaban decided to secure the gang's gangs one day. It worked until noon in the same day, and there was a fall from that procession. I don't even mention the Russian loan, I forgot, the famous Russian loan advertised by the Secret Bank as a release on Iceland's currency problem. It was this lack of professionalism that made it even more difficult to deal with a market that was basically broken down because there was no belief in professionalism in the Federal Bank or his ability to handle this matter. What the oceans did was allow us to make room for the economy. Many doubted that we would ever get back from the oceans or that would take a huge amount of time. Once inside, it was difficult to visualize the circumstances in which we could resolve the situation. The problems were huge, as was most evident when we set up a budget for execution in March 2011. At that time, the defamator was assessed for nearly 30% of national production, and there were no parallels in the world's economic history. At that time, the switch was not completed in the swelling camp of the fallen bank, so that the extent of the problem facing the national currency status was not even fully understood. They did not know the scope of foreign property, which, in effect, was added to the leftover peninsula and also had to be released. In March 2012, we dealt with it by legislation, and in an effort to achieve this position, we committed the property of foreign workers to the swelling of banks. When you looked at that time to the possibility of abduction, that was not a lot of optimism, as I say. Of course, this was because our economic base and our sizes in the economy are sensitive. History has characterized the rise of an Icelandic economist, which basically draws the strength of a gang and a blundering business hall that has to be corrected by a gang crash and inflation. This is, in effect, the history of the Icelandic economy from the beginning of the Icelandic crown. In those years, there were indications that we were looking in the same direction. In the spring of 2011, the divorce rate was directed to national incomes by the end of 2012 and the 2013 beginning, in fact, at the very worst time for the then reigns of government. Then, as early as summer, the explosion began in the traveling service that does not provide the end. In effect, additional exports for first the macroil and then, of course, tremendously positive service balance for the 2013 tourism service have completely changed the balance state of the economy, making the potential for a success of the gang then and also seeing that it is possible to take further steps in the disposal of a currency school. The 2013 Inspiration has been so advanced that people now feel that it is over - average success, and thus the ideal situation is now to take steps to further open up the sources of free currency exchange. In 2011, 2012, or 2013, we can totally describe an outflow that we could not predict at that time. The growing difference is also very favorable to us during the years 2011, 2012, and 2013 as a general lack of faith, let us put it, 2010, 2011, and 2012, especially, within both countries and abroad, on our economic inversions. The government's situation made it clear that this place was a bit cold, that economicism and commercial expectation had to be changed completely, and that the future looked bleak. In such a situation, it is very dangerous to dispose of a currency head without sufficient resources, since the danger is that there will be foreigners who take the money out but those who simply do not believe in the place where it is at home. This bill and research warrants of the Federal Bank, which contains it and is to be paid for the application of national economists on the subject, etc., sum up the weaknesses we have with the Icelandic crown. We are in complete uncertainty about future developments. If there is something that has become quite clear since collapse, it is only working if you are ready to head when the flow pressure rises. I think that's the lesson from this whole system. But in this policy, there is also much damage. This means that we can't expect companies who are planning to be in the international work of choosing to have headquarters in this country because no companies that want to be taken seriously in international business are at risk of being in a country where seas can be placed. That's a sacrifice for us. We see it so clearly in new activities in the work of knowledge that a positive trend has greatly diminished since collapse. Before the collapse and from the implementation of the EEA Convention, we had a large international company with Iceland headquarters, and I'm just name Marel, Assur and Actavis that mattered to us. We still have some of these odd jobs here, but Actavis is closing in Hafnarfjörður and there are no new ones so big to be made up in Iceland today. New research centres are much smaller and smaller. There are no hundreds of people at work. This is tragic and profound concern. As a direct result, we live in a currency market, and no one wants to risk having headquarters in a bank ticket country. The other cost of being willing to be on the head is the fact that this makes it easy for us to misuse power overmanagement. We make something called a national receiver, but their bait is important. When do they get sharp? What time is it sharp? Can a proper businessman slip through with his transfer five minutes to four if the obstacles are set at four o'clock? Does he receive a call that these obstacles are imminent or otherwise, just as was the case in the old days when friends of today's board learned of gangfalls before anyone else? They were able to obtain goods on the elderly, but ordinary people had to be caught up in the gangs. It is no coincidence that, at the same time as this government loses its membership in the European Union and shuts down a discussion about a new currency and a new currency environment, we have seen repeated its efforts in the terms of the ultimatum to change the management of the Navy bank and make it more political. This is because if we're going to live with the Icelandic crown where the currency's requirements are that people are always ready to head and where there are obstacles to voluntary business and that can be arranged by a government decision, we'll do the position of the governor of the country's political most desirable job in the country. As a result, we put ourselves in a position to be, not a free market economy, but a political economy. So the damage caused by the crown is enormous. We know that if we were to take full control of the situation, we would have to have a debt without money, we'd have a huge inaccessible currency reserve, and we'd have to have sustained much higher interest than in other countries. All of this is damage to Icelandic professional life. We try to do this to a large extent, and we'll have to do it to a considerable extent, but then we'll also make a national economy. We've already approved in spring influx obstructions where you can place a tie-related on those who bring foreign money into the country into the wax trade and, of course, a variety of efflux obstructions are in the pipes, and as I say, the U.S. will prevent us from becoming an international economy, we're going to be at such a length of half estate. That's why it's happening what I've been telling a lot of stories about collapse that it's impossible to go back without a hand. She'll always have some kind of headies. Men will call it someone else's names, but let us not deceive ourselves by maintaining the threat of laying a head at any time and by using a variety of national ecstatic devices that will offer different individual or specific decisions on who may be and who may not be expected to offer a world of political abuse to the World Bank and economic systems that will be handled in a similar way. I would like to finally, a respectable president, to express my joy that here at the Senate Hall are several members of the government stand. It's interesting that no member of the Cabinet can handle it, but it must certainly be a matter of concern to us as a member of the Parliament, and the Senate allows for us to be present at a discussion that is not wanted on the part of the board to participate. I'm glad we're here. paritaprevir The god - god of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson's son in the hall, but it would naturally be best to postpone meetings and continue them when there are any prospects of being spiritually and physically present at the council Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting talk in advance. Hv. A senator went over the prehistoric to the collapse, and I found it interesting to remember it because even though I was just a civilian then, hopefully respectful, I remember very well how crazy it was. Hv. A senator was only in charge of the Federal Bank. I remember when my ex-fiancée. Prime Minister Davíð, Oddsson, became the bank manager. That's when I fell out. I thought it was so crazy, not because of the person of man, not even because of his political views or what he had done in the politics, but because of the fact that he was the most controversial and influential politician in Iceland probably since the Sturbian World - it could be reasoned all the way. It makes a problem for such a person to be placed at the top of the Secret Bank, at least for a foreign person's suspicion, and it certainly raised a suspicion in those here on the basis of a person's being suitable for controlling a lemon like the Sensitian bank. Later, he became editor of the Morning newspaper, which is not less funny in my opinion for the same reasons. At that time, it was natural. It was crazy how the economy went down here, the idea that in some way we were some kind of extraordinary financial genius. The opposite was true in the day. I wondered, " When I hear talks like this fine talk, why? ' A Congressman: Have we learned something from this? Has Iceland as a community and as a government system learned something? Will this be different in the future? Now that we've got a bunch of tourists, do we have all of this all figured out? Or can we expect that in the future we will make similar mistakes if we do not?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u75	A respectable president. I'm sure we've learned something, but I'm also sure that we haven't learned enough. This is what we saw on the Senate discussion last week on the international financial watch because there was a great lack of analysis of the underlying dangers that are always for the Icelandic economy on the open market. I'd like to answer that question. A senator would say that I did not feel that we have fully learned from this if we believe that the solution can be a currency that is not a suitable currency and cannot be a work fee for an international competitive enterprise. Then I think the currency and the money problem will remain. It is not high now because inflation is low because of favorable external circumstances, but we know it just as if the night follows the day that it does not last indefinitely. When inflation begins or starts falling, unless it is both, we know exactly what happens in the Icelandic economy. Then people will look again to get a real currency that is as aggressive and weaker as a dollar. I also believe that we lacked understanding, such as in this financial issue, in the economic facts that we are facing. There will always be the influx of money to Iceland. There's always going to be a drop of money from Iceland. But it is very dangerous to create a communicator system, as it is being done with the national economists, which makes it possible that if troubled men get into the front bank, as the government has a great deal of intention to do in this ideal period, there will be tools for discriminate men, to pay favors, and to punish others. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u76	A respectable president. The depression in the answer is what? A senator reminded me of what I thought I had done most of the time here, i.e. the collection of information that we've been through at the National Bank. It is necessary and all of that, but it still has these problems. These are, of course, valuable information, and for more than the Sensian Bank and for more people than Icelanders. Well, there's a problem. I agree with what. Senator. I think we've learned something, something remarkable, but not enough. In particular, I fear that now we are primarily focusing on solutions or subsidies of the economy that can cope with this particular problem, which was due to the 2008 collapse of the bank. If I wonder if we're like that. Ready for a sudden reversal of the tourist stream, for example, that could happen for a million different reasons, it doesn't have to be listed, there's a number of things that can cause it, I don't see how well we would be able to deal with it. Then I'll be afraid, too, if anything like that would happen, and hopefully it won't, at least not quickly, we'll still need more devices like those put in here. These tools are put in place to collect information from the Navy Bank, a very broad source, over and over again, and will continue to be important. And most important, because we have this currency, I think we will always be on the alert somehow to the currency problem, which, of course, are the big swing swings. But there has also been complacency with the Icelandic government and, I'm just going to say so, too, to the public, in terms of possible economic mismanagement, e.g. The banking system, however, is much the same as the tourist industry. I wondered: " If we're going to have this crown forward, which looks like we're going to have the case, how can we make the best of it without ever being in any place? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u77	A respectable president. The problem with the Icelandic economy is that there's a lot of Mickey Mouse economy. These are small sizes, and it is on the chance of a reasonable amount of material to provide access to money between countries that it can significantly affect key levels in the economy within 24 hours. It is impossible for the nation to feel that we are in a way like rich people's game, that the key sizes in the economy can be set for a handful of people. There will be a problem in the United States, especially after the collapse, because there is no world around you at all, and it is hard to convince people to invest in it. Of course, we're always biting our tail. Now you start investing or marketinging Icelandic bonds in foreign lands, and you have to invest in Icelandic dollars. It is good for us in some ways, the currency market gets deeper, but it is also bad in that sense, as we experienced in the collapse, that when everyone becomes a case at the same time as we are left with a great deal of trouble. I think the best way to live at the crown is to have some kind of head and restraint and a national instrument like us developing, but as I said earlier. They pose a real threat to abuse because the key sizes resulting from the information. A senator was talking about earlier, i.e. The key issues and decisions on who can go out at any given time are really valuable decisions. Those who get to go out can make a lot of money out of those who get to go out an hour later or who may not get to go out. It creates a risk of political involvement in the management of the Federal Bank. That's the big danger I see we're facing right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u78	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize public shopping. That's good. It's actually based on directives that we have to implement for the EEA Convention. Similarly, there are some things related directly to us that we have been working on ourselves. We know the matter in a larger context. We have stressed it greatly during this terms, especially the majority of the legal committees, to press for new purchases of goods and services from the government or the government. I think it's safe to say it's been a really good experience. It is both righteous and wise and the best way to make sure that we get the best of our goods, as well as the best service, and it promotes healthy, balanced competition. There are a few things related to this case. In reviews, one community made comments that the standard of financial resources for the State should also include the local community, but I have to say that I didn't feel that there was enough evidence, especially the largest rural communities that this applies, or the largest, should have the ability to extend it as in the state. Especially in view of the sensitive nature of this service - it is possible to receive a gift from it. Then there's another, a respectable president. It has to do with the fact that in the old law there was a special arrangement for competitive competition. It was to indicate that the competitive authorities would need to assess the state of competition at the market so that when sending out in cooperation with government agencies, which are probably normal and desirable, with other members of the European Economic Area to obtain a more favourable offer, it would have to be guaranteed that this would not cause harm to the local market. It was inserted a few years ago. But it's awful that the person who might have made the best of it never tried, I'm referring to the Land Hospital, and as a result, we did not have experience in the way it worked. To be said, however, the speakers disagreed very much on the positiveness of this competitive evaluation. Some people felt that this was so difficult and insurmountable that they could not be included in common invitations, while members of the State Buy and the Contestance Commission felt that it was relatively small and simple to perform it. It was presented to the governor's experience that it had been successful in that agency on public invitations. In the following article, it was found that they had shared an invitation to bullets in the European Economic Area before a competitive estimate was introduced into the law. It went very well, but it took them a year and a half for them to get answers about their competitive evaluations when they tried to travel that way after it entered the law. It tells itself that there is something that cannot work out for the institutions involved. The land hospital who called the most important things to do never tried this, unfortunately, it would have been good to have that experience. The bottom line. The legal committee was taking out the law today. Instead, the Contestant Commission should be informed of the planned purchases and support for the application of the source. The Governing Body shall give the opinion of a competitive dinner and therefore take a position on whether the bid is to interfere with domestic competition. The role of the Contestant Commission, however, does not stop or delay the process of sending out, and thus it does not prevent shopping from taking place. In human language, this means that the institution will send a statement to the Contestant Board but will continue with the invitation and the Contestance Commission is obliged to submit their opinion of whether this will affect the market. It is a small issue whether the enterprise working in this sector is only working on the national market or whether the market is the European Economic Area. This has been the most part of the discussion, but this is certainly true of a lot of other things. For example, the presidents of the National Hospital have claimed that if they share in common invitations with other hospitals in the North, they can receive a much more favorable price. Is this due to the EEA agreements, we had to trade for the EU. Now someone might ask: What is it? This is the picture of the European Union's greatest criticism of the European Union and its member countries, but criticism focuses largely on the fact that it is a government of government that no one can influence, which has no responsibility to anyone. Then I refer to the Commission where men are hired, they are not elected, and it doesn't matter how Europe votes go or elections in those countries, they sit there and they have vast powers. The members who have the most access to these companies are large members, large whales, such as the banks and the major pharmaceutical companies. The concept of the European Economic Area is that this is one market area, so if a person can move something into the European Economic Area, no matter what, say in Britain, Germany, or where it is, the product should be able to float through the whole area. However, this does not apply to your medicine. There you need to go through the same programme, the same system, to be allowed for the medicine in your country. This is clearly done in order to divide the European market after the public's commercial capacity so that these major drug producers, who now are not very large in the world, can control the price of selling the product on the market. It claims itself, a respectable president, that it is somewhat strange when, like the Mediterranean, in the countries where products are sold at a much lower price than in Iceland. Those people who get out of this especially badly are the little markets like Iceland. Yet, in the European Union, people cheat on it a little, as they often do. Luxembourg, for example, sets out to take advantage of the Belgian pharmaceutical institution. Malta left, at least the last time I checked, a way of not paying attention to this, they just take everything from Britain. But we Icelanders have been affected by this, which is part of the fact that there are much fewer medicines on the market, and it has been difficult for us to do so, although we have been able to reduce the price of medication in recent years, and hopefully we are still achieving better results because drugs are very important and it is very important that we have as new as possible, as good as possible, because drugs are not just supposed to save people's lives, but that people who are otherwise unable to be involved in society. More and more people can participate in society because of the trend in the market. I refer to this, a respectable president, because I know this case quite well. As a health minister, I did a lot of work in these matters, including meeting with the European Commission on this matter. Everyone recognizes the problem, but little has been done to solve it. We need to keep this in mind when making plans for these things. End of story. The budget board is that we are not stopping an invitation, no matter what company you are dealing with. Of course, this is not just the Land Hospital, this is true of all public companies, they can go to tenders, but they have to report it to the Contestance Board by this competitive evaluation. The Contestant Commission has to decide whether it is a market then European, then there is nothing more to do about it, and then every agent for that product on the land, as well as those who buy into it, knows that they can do it this way. I think it's a solution most people should be able to accept. We also add here, a respectable president, a lawsuit for firms or firm organizations to the high level of tenders. Of course, that's very delicate. In many areas, public agencies, the largest, and sometimes even even the only buyers, are at the market. If anyone thinks he's wrong, it's a big decision to sue the one person or at least the biggest customer. Therefore, we felt that the business of the enterprise could bring issues to the Advisory Committee of the Mission. A comment has been made about one article that does not focus on these issues. There is a comment from the Society of Industrialism, which suggests that we need to better review a aspect of the matter that has to be settled by sub-products. I therefore suggest, sir, a respectable president, that we take the matter into the middle of a discussion committee. Otherwise, the Committee suggests that the bill will be adopted by the above - mentioned adjustments made in a special Senate document. This is what you're gonna sign. The members of Vigdís Hauksdóttir, Guðlaður Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, Brynhildur of Pétursdóttir, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, Harðardóttir Hardydóttt, Páll Jóhann the son of Pálsson, Olsen Olden Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, and Valgerður the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir. Officers of the government opposition, sharp. Councilmen Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Brynhildur St. Pétursdóttir's Oddný, Jandny G. Harðardóttir, signed with a warning about the weight set up for business partners.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u79	President. Hv. In Europe, an executive entered the marketing market and put Luxembourg and Malta as well as some of them cheated by the European rules. I certainly don't consider it to be a respectable president. I believe, as with the common market rules, EEA, there are drugs interpreted in this country, they are just too narrow to interpret. Safety guidelines apply to medicinal products because they may be dangerous, as necessary, as they are at the same time. A senator came in and can change people's lives completely. The new anti -rheumatic drugs have often been used as an example of how people who had no previous energy or who now live a normal life. We see how chemotherapy prolongs people's lives and always comes new and new, so there is no doubt about it. But drugs are dangerous. Therefore, they apply specific safety guidelines. The safety rules currently apply are used here on land as a technical obstacle to trade. That is exactly what happened when the inner market was set in place, when the technical barriers to trade were eliminated in the then - called European Union. They were destroyed. It hasn't happened in the medication. These safety measures necessary because drugs are hazardous in this country, are used for technical inhibition.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u80	A respectable president. I know why. A senator is very warm to the European Union, but this does not alter the facts. We're talking about security regulations that are exactly the same in every country. Any child in such a situation would conclude that medicinal products passed through the Norwegian Institute should be available for sale here. It's just not possible because of EU rules. Hv. A senator only has to live by being a bubbly group member of Brussels so that it can be sold at a higher price here than in other countries. It's as simple as that. I know this case well because I went to it as a minister, but I managed to reduce the cost of medication by billions. That was the hardest. I was in a gray area when I changed regulations, perfectly aware of that, after I had talked to the Commission, two European Commission members of the Union. I was afraid we'd have to follow the rules. When I changed, for example. The Council on the Package Leaflets then the experts thought I was actually in a very gray area. But it is a typical technical obstacle set by EU rules in this matter, such as many others, that are taking care of the interests of large companies. The payers are the people. Hv. A senator can be very hurt and frustrated that I say this, but this is a fact. Then we can review how people follow rules in different ways. It seems to me that the ESA follows this letter much more closely than the European Union. It would be nice to go over it in this room or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u81	A respectable president. Yes, you're absolutely right. The same national safety guidelines apply, e.g. correspondent in Denmark Therefore, only Icelandic interpretations and Icelandic rules make it impossible for us to use a marketing license from Denmark, that is just our interpretation. It was, for example. Established, not in individual countries, but in the European market. But Iceland says they have to be registered here specifically. It's not a lobster group, it's not just the pharmaceutical companies working in Brussels, they work here in the country. I've said it before in this chair that nothing has surprised me as much in my work, and yet things have surprised me as such. Here at the council, and how the Icelandic pharmaceutical companies make sure that the market is one and small so that they can maintain an excessive amount of drug prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u82	A respectable president. This doesn't change anything. This is the European Union's rule. Clearly, this is how it is done. There is no perplexing reason for that. You cannot accept it without the approval of the Member State. I did, however, have a contract with Sweden in my day as a health minister, that all the drugs that were authorised to go to Iceland automatically unless the company stopped it itself. Some of the things I think are amazing. On the other hand, that's the way... [[Special interests.]] Yeah, absolutely, it's all special. It's easy to plant special interests if you're a big person in Brussels. I have spoken to many European Parliaments who have said that it is surprising when the big banks and big companies are very involved in this Regulation. Why are they involved? Because when you're huge, it's no big deal for you to have 10, 20, 30, 40, 100 people in the Regulation enterprise, but small and medium-sized companies can't compete in it because there's so much to go through some rules that are often very peculiar. It was the last government to end the partnership I established. The last time I came to this point, there were dozens of drugs that went through in this way, which, of course, was most desirable, but I don't know why the last government broke up, so I didn't. However, this cannot be done differently than being in collaboration with the National Competent Authority in the Member State of the European Union. [[Up front.]] They're just like that. The rules of Brussels are this way because big pharmaceutical companies are being cared for so that prices can be higher in countries where commercial power is high than where there is a lower prenup. This is because the large bobby platforms, big companies, have such good access to the Brussels Commission, while the little parties are not so relevant, let alone these poor European Parliaments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u83	A respectable president. I wanted to draw attention to a case proposed by a group of Bjarts in the future and dealt with the removal of Article 5. a law on the Christian Fund. The reason I mention it is because I myself wrote a bill with a report that I loved and that I still love. I made it up, and I was terribly happy about it when I was told that a group of Bjartar's future had already submitted this point to that assembly. For a while, I wondered, " Do I want to make that offer too? ' Some of them are put in the same bill twice. Of course, I thought it was silly, like probably more, but in time I decided that I wanted it on the Senate papers, I wanted to have that bill. I felt that the report was an important message, so I put it forward, not with the intention of getting it on the program, but with the intention of leaving it in Congress documents. And if the case was scheduled, I'd rather support the future session for the Council of Hearts, end a great need, and encourage everyone to read both branches to see how important this matter is. [[Up front.]] I hope that the case will finally be settled in the next term.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u84	This information has been received by the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u85	Mr. President. I'm just going to come into this matter that's being discussed here, i.e. a bill for a law on public shopping, and to account for our warnings in the smaller parts, or at least mine, which is primarily about the set amount of money. That is what rural society has been criticizing, and not just Reykjavíkurburg, though it is most relevant, it is evident that Reykjavík is the largest rural society. Hence, the amount of money most relevant to that rural society is available. However, the European Union has also represented the country's rural communities and is generally in favor of the case, but it actually rejects these thresholds and when parties are assigned within the country, as indicated in chapter 3. The relationship reminds us that, under current law, all rural society should set up purchase rules, and the Union made itself a frame around what many rural societies have adopted to be exemplary, and then others set their own rules. This is an intervention in the SEC, and the decision-making authority of the local community, which is critical, and I think it is important, and not only that, but it also leads to an increase of costs, as well as to the proposed, not only these coordinated financial values, but, at the same time, the rural communities will be as established to the state as to their institutions as well as to the judicial committee of tenders. Both the Union and Reykjavíkurburg claim that this will result in a significant increase in cost as a result of purchase of expert services because more rural invitations need to go through this process. It reminds us that our rural communities, as we know, are both large and disciplinarians and their tasks as well, reminding them that they will be given this opportunity to buy basic services in their rural communities. Of course it's two-way. That's what I'm thinking. It is sometimes said that rural society is saluting one and another, especially the smaller, while others want to be viewed as supporting the business of the rural community. The possibilities set here particularly narrow the opportunity of the small community. It is important to remember that the changes proposed by this European Parliament's Directive, i.e. In terms of the reference height, the directive itself is not. These are not the changes to be made, i.e. ... toindicate ruralships on the basis of Iceland's Member States into the EEA. It's just a political decision to do that. I would have liked this bill to try without it being inside - we're going, I hear the head of the committee, take it in between discussions, and have been proposed changes in the way it was brought to a different perspective - because there have been no fractures in the arrangement that the rural society has had. If there was, it would be normal for you to consider this, but this is not the case at all. That's why the Union and the city of Reykjavík are particularly against this. And there's a suggestion that I'm going to read, by permission of the President, about a change of 1 mg. 23rd grow, which will be added to the article. It reads like this: ▪ Everybody shops for state, institutions, and other government agencies on their side, cr. 2 mg. 3. ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ and activities over 49,000,000. it should be offered and done in accordance with the methods of shopping that are set out in more detail in IV. section 6.5 Then we'll add: The same applies to all rural society, institutions and other government agencies on the roads that reach the reference levels in the European Economic Areas, corrosion. 4 mg. In other respects, rural society is permitted to apply the laws of this whole or part of their shopping habits and to make rules about them. That was the largest part of the increase. And then there's a: ▪ Social services and other special services funds provisioned by public citizens at public service contracts. VIII. 4 mg/kg/day should follow Here's a suggestion I really think it's worth looking at. In this context of this difference between state and country society, i.e. This central agency we know, the Government, the government and its institutions, is thus out of the question. As the terms of rural society are narrowed down, the authority and the government have been removed. For a minister is permitted to include lower thresholds for the purchase of public citizens, i.e. Apart from their societies and their institutions. When we see that there is yet another expense increase in the population that our communities have to deal with, we need only to stop. This is also thought to increase the misunderstanding, along with this expense at the expert's pay. It is even said that larger rural areas will have to increase their levels where more projects will have to go into tenders. The Icelandic community cannot agree that, as stated in the bill, this formality will lead to an increase in costs only for the time being. 'Cause that's also, as I mentioned earlier, the Pronunciation Committee. Farmers believe that this will result in high costs, as it will likely take more than that. I would have liked us to take a closer look, because it's that the government can avoid the costs of this, mainly through the Kingdom Buy, and with all the small purchases it makes with the framework agreements it doesn't do. In time, they may move closer, and especially these big ones, but they are only about so many different, many different needs, even though larger ones may be able to develop such a central device. Farmers are trying to strengthen their environment, and it may well be that any community's best interests are to shop in their jobs territory rather than having to put it all out. Although you want to have active competition and an increase in corporate equality, there is a risk that they can move from their rural communities, where they actually build on doing things that are often done in a relatively limited amount of time. This is one of the things that needed to be discussed. Because of weather conditions and other factors, the time of rural work may be much more limited in many respects beyond the spring - to - autumn high - saving period until snow. That's why it's even more important if you want to keep small contractors alive in your rural society, then this is part of their ability to do so, i.e. to participate in these activities within the rural areas. Because I'm not going to talk about this for very long, though, I'd like to mention the agreement made by the manager, that society had been met by reducing the number of days, i.e. the wait time rule, so called "1st." 86. g. the bill, i.e. from ten days to five days. A contract has to be performed for five days after a decision has been made on an offer. There is no such thing now. These items under current criteria do not have to wait; they can be done immediately. In fact, it was observed that if someone had to do something with a smartass, it might not always be appropriate for the rural community to wait for that time, these five days, to do the delay and actually damage more than the word. I think this is a good payback for comments that I would have wanted to see that we had taken into consideration. Especially that these two factors had been allowed to remain unchanged. However, the greater part of the decision was made to let it go through this way. But it's also okay to point out abroad, i.e. in the North, changing the reference height has been called a bit because the rural population has not been successful enough. Norway provides a more basic guidelines for government and rural development under the guidelines set out. For Denmark it was also noted that not all contracts are on these European reference levels and not all are charged with a legal committee. It has been noted that their costs, as in Denmark, were multiplied, i.e. The expert cost of rural society, due to the premium of both shopping processes and the number of counts that multiplied. I think this is something we should have changed. I might suggest that we do so on the committee between discussions. Other than that, the bill's pretty good, I think. I think we've tried to meet what else was mentioned in the committee. Of course, it's never that much like everybody. It just needs to be recorded if something doesn't turn out to be going well enough. Then you can pick up and review individual articles and test them, as mentioned here by the medication purchase of the Land Hospital, that it had not been tested. I can agree with the suggestion here on that. A respectable president. I'm gonna make it work. It is, in whole, a good bill, except for the communities I feel like we're always going to be part of both of them for expense and for their self-control rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u86	A respectable president. I just want to come up here to make a statement. We're all on the committee's opinion, but the smaller part is on notice. It's because of these controversial articles, i.e. These were the articles we spent most of our time in and for e.g. The competitive evaluation. In fact, I think the results somehow reached a gap between them. I don't think it should be burdensome for the government agencies who want to try to shop in public stores with some foreign organisations, as a prominent authority went over here and I'm not going to go to any further trace. We examined it back and forth and came to a conclusion that I hope will be quite acceptable. What was more difficult for me was the argument between local communities about having to fulfill these laws rather than just having their shopping rules. In fact, both viewpoints could be understood there. It is reasonable to make it a requirement that taxpayers, whether they are responders or taxpayers - be sure that there is a good process and that they are always looking for the most favorable offer. As I understood, the concern was particularly due to the invitation hearings, how it would be affected if contractors, or others who have been invited, were about to file an invitation. It would delay the work. In fact, it should not delay a task, although some kind of lawsuit may be taken, but I think there is a reason to monitor it when it comes to implementing the development of the rural community. Of course, we want to establish laws that will never have to be changed and can remain here for the next 10 to 20 years. But when we have a law that we do not fully foresee, it is likely to be on guard to see if it actually has the consequences of the communities'fears. I'm not necessarily sure that it is, but I'm not gonna do it either. Another factor in this context is the case. It may be outcasts, but it should never be used for the purpose of stopping a case or just to be boring. If there is any evidence that this is true in some places, a fee is asked for, which is reimbursed if the person wins the case in favor of, or if the case is in favor of, the case. There's something I feel like there's sometimes to look at, I'm not saying that's relevant here, but I know cases of cases of cases that are choking on the subject. A wide variety of items are being submitted that might not be done if there were a modest bill. I haven't thought about this yet, but I thought about it when it was mentioned in the Committee whether or not someone would go too far in trying to influence the project - maybe not to delay it, but to determine the interpretation of the law. Of course, saying so, the D.A. is an extremely important option. What makes me okay about this is that it's important for those who participate in an assignment in rural society to have someone right, some way to see if they're broken. These are just two in a law column that covers over a hundred articles. I think it's all for the better. I agree with this. 90%. The front line is for the other 10%. As I'm saying, just keep your eyes open about the competition and see how the shopping team members come out of this. We need to keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's talk and particularly for calling attention to the position of the local members in this regard. Of course, it has been a relatively long period of time that the requirements for rural society in the ESAs may be far higher than the requirements for rural areas that are on the European side because of the much higher monitoring institutions in these small countries in the EEA than in the large European relationship. It aims to limit the options and leeway of the rural community when various projects are under attack. Therefore, I would like to ask the senator about the possibility of a community partner to form a business in his area or to have other such views that may naturally violate equality but still be able to be a strong subjective point of view, that rural management in some particular area makes it important to maintain a certain occupation or expertise in that area by doing business with it even if it did not provide the most favorable option. I'm curious about the limits of rural society to these changes, e.g. in such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u88	A respectable president. This is exactly a good point, and it was discussed on the committee that my communities, perhaps out in the country, would like to do business with someone in their territory, hopefully provided that the offer was good. We responded that men, for example, might think of some sort of process, but we did not get an extension. It's not easy to go around. If there are less than 49 million projects, the law is not valid, and when it comes to products and services, it is 15.5 million. It was a question of whether to increase this control point for the communities. On the contrary, the argument was that it would also have to be very professional to figure out what was being done for tenders, that would also be the interests of rural partners, and that it would be necessary to seek out the most favorable offer. This article was very confusing to me. Many questions arose. Therefore, I trust that the relationship will monitor the negative effects of these laws, e.g. on small rural areas, the legislatator will be informed, or perhaps this will change very little. But it was discussed, and these are really understandable views.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I wanted her to know if she thought it was a reason to call for this application into the panel between discussions at the end of this discussion so that it would be clear in the Senate treatment. The other thing I wanted to ask the senator about a delay in a lawsuit. I understood the senator so that it would not be necessary to worry that the case would delay action. But it would be good if the senator could explain the facts. I would have thought that if PGE were to make a deal for any incursion in the new activations or tours called and such an invitation would be charged with non-contractual agreements, it might require that in such agreements the local society or company be waiting to close the purchases until the court's lawsuits are made. This can cause delays in performance. First and foremost, I would appreciate the fact that the senator would go through this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u90	President. I understood that there were exceptional cases in which a lawsuit would delay action. It'll just have to be seen if that's the case. I felt that this was more about whether a person would face a crisis and would be upset to try this lawsuit and perhaps get some precedent out of the committee. It was considered, or it was said, that the reference height would be higher, i.e. The balance height that would have to be in order for this to be approved. Of course, if there is some mad suggestion between discussions, the committee will look to it. We received a good report from Reykjavíkurburg and from the relationship. We called for more data because we really wanted to look at this. But we did not really get an extension that we agreed on was good. It's like I'm saying, I'm especially on notice about this article because there are a lot of questions that arise. But I also understand that at some point, the law needs to go through. We can't sit here for more weeks to back this one thing when there's a lot more to wait for. That's what you're worried about right now, how many big cases are there at the council. This may be a good example of how much time can be needed in certain legal cases. I don't have anything else to say but that it's really gonna have to show if this isn't gonna work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u91	President. I had no idea that my opinion of how the European Safety Guidelines are used as a technical obstacle in this country would cause the impressions of the European Union. I'm telling you the truth. If the speaker of the case addressed these comments with the strength that really be seen, I think it is necessary to explain my case a little further. When the European Union's internal market was established in the late 1980's, it was done by excluding technical business barriers within the so - called economic alliance. The Common Community was formed in 1956. There was to be a vacation store, and there were no barriers to carrying goods from one country to another. Still, people set standards for themselves, so French had special standards in various materials, Germans with others, and the third British. It prevented trade between countries. An internal market plan was then established on how to eliminate this. That was to be in force on January 1, 1989. This resulted in economic growth flying in Europe, as trade grew. There was a lot of optimism in the European economy back then. The manager of the case, huh? paritaprevir Gulsome Þór Þórðarson, says that the European Union is running around that some Directorates in Brussels obey special interests. One of the main markets, for example, after the bartering, so to speak, was the development of the technical business barrier. In the past, no airlines were allowed to fly without a special license. Each state issued a license for this airline or the other. I worked for the European airline. Who was in it? I think the airlines were twelve or thirteen. It was British Airways, Lufthansa, Air France, all these largely so - called national airlines, all more or less on the head. I got a job there because I had worked for the Fly Routes. We were in this relationship. Then, the evil manager of Brussels and the organization had a plan to eliminate these limits, this permission of individual countries to allow individual airlines to fly this route or the other. Then it was just said, 'Now the business life's over, and those who want to fly where they want to fly do it.' Let's see the flight today. Let's see the price of today's flight. About 20 or more airlines fly to Keflavík in the summer. This results in lower prices and increased tourism over a long period of time. Another example is that of the wicked apostles in Brussels. They canceled the government dedication of phones and communications. It was done in Brussels. There was only one company, British Telecom, and there was France Télécom, so there was one in Italy, and the phone was here. It was now the evil European relationship that brought it to bear. The governments were not satisfied with that. They wanted to keep it to themselves. But it was beaten through. Eventually, it is always the nations who agree to do things. Then we'll see how the phone company and telecommunications flourish today. The European cooperation has not been successful enough with the medicines. That's because the pharmaceutical companies in the world are very rich, like here, and they fight the most of all possible causes for this market to be free, just like another market. They have a point because drugs are dangerous. Therefore, special precautions must be taken. The pharmaceutical companies use these rules to keep markets separate. That's why drugs are so expensive. Well, it's probably because of a lot of other things, but this is one of the reasons. In Iceland, special interests keep drugs within this technical business block. There is nothing that forbids us, rather than Luxembourg, to use other pharmaceutical institutions. Luxembourg uses the Belgian pharmaceutical institution, and there's nothing against us to use them Danish. Nothing. If Luxembourg can do that, we can do it. That's all I was going to say. I think if these technical inhibitions of drugs were removed, there would be a reduction in drug prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u92	A respectable president. First of all, because of the speech you were speaking. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir of what has to do with the European Union, which I think is just good for us to talk about. This is a speech that may be a little old time. I got it. I got it. A senator to follow the discussion as it takes place in Europe today in connection with the blessing of the European Union. The European Union is a toll alliance. The idea is a great style. The idea is, we're gonna shut down, we're gonna be rich markets. That's why they say, e.g. Foreign politicians and have been doing this for years and decades: You must enter the European Union because you get everything but don't pay for anything. We have access to the markets. As for the technical business barriers, it is absolutely true that a great many of them were cut down with common markets. That was the rule. The drug is one of those areas where it was not made out of the influence of the lobsters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u93	...the security rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u94	It's no safety protocol, it's nothing but nonsense. Do they really think that if we get drugs to go through the Danish Institute, it's a very dangerous thing because we're Icelanders?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u95	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u96	It's just a total bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u97	I agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u98	This is done only to keep medication under control and the reason why this is done is because the Commission does not depend on anyone, nobody chooses it. In fact, the people in the Commission are the people chosen by the Member States. Neil Kinnock is a good example, Peter Mandelson and this Juncker, who was written about correctly by me, I believe the business sheet to be the most dangerous man in Europe today. Maybe not quite the most dangerous, but at least it's hard to be a leader less fortunate than a fine man. The European Union is always creating technical business barriers to keep other products from the European market. Icelanders have it, e.g. If you buy American goods, and I don't know that they're toxic. For example, the last time I went to the United States, I didn't take food from Europe with me, I'm just a little loose with it, and the United States is not dying of eating American products that go through the American Food Agency, but here it is that if I buy a can of Heinz or whatever it is on it's a little note that shows 100 grams, content out of 100 grams but not, so I put it, a respectable president, a pretty president, a little perv. This is a technical obstacle to the development of the European Union in preventing competition elsewhere. I don't think any one would argue about this except for maybe two classes in Iceland who want to walk in the European Union and either try not to talk about it and push it down or watch the world as much as it is. There may be three of them. The European Union has never promoted a vacation trade at the International Business Institute because it is not interested. This is what happens: the Brussels company's due-to-do is to see the advantage of a lot of regulations, a lot of regulations, a lot of regulations, to keep the little partners away. This is well known, except perhaps when the Icelandic European experts, who are like EU cheerleaders here, voters, talk about things. This is a discussion that was for example. very prominent in the Bgretti election. True, it was never found in the Icelandic press because it was always interpreted by sources as much of the European Union fan as I am a fan of the British soccer team Liverpool, and I am a huge fan. On the other hand, if I come to football.net or anything like that, I'm entitled as one, as an admirer of Liverpool, normal. But when European experts appear in the media, they seem to be some objective European experts, which they are not. They're European fans. The fact is, the European Union is acquitted and sacred thing to set technical barriers to keep competition free. To illustrate: If we examine the conclusions that were made when you were pushing Iceland into the European Union, what did the Icelandic experts say about how this would affect them? Yes, if Iceland walked in the European Union, the prices would all rise. This is before we struck down the customs. The price of all products would rise outside the EU and not just that but we would have to increase the number of customs by several hundred. Hv. A senator's smile is in the chest. I'll show you what. This is the case with a senator. I didn't write it, I didn't write it. True, I thought that if we were to make some money getting into a customs alliance, we might reduce the number of customs employees. But there is something else. You can dream about the European Union and talk about things that are quite different, but there is a reason why the European Union's competitiveness is always going down. This was to be the most competitive region in the world in 2010, which is so far from being reached. If you look at the polls in the European Union and not just in recent years but for a long time, it's going down all the time. The biggest reason is that it doesn't matter whether this is the EU, just take as an example UEFA or FFA, someone who controls and is in great power, has no responsibility to anyone, is not elected by anyone, cannot be chosen by anyone, and the consequences are disastrous. I'm not celebrating. It hurts for us, and actually it just hurts for the whole world. A respectable president. Icelandic fans can try to create someone from the European Union as they please. But while people have access to the Internet, they can travel and read the media elsewhere, they can investigate these languages, which are relatively simple, there have been many reports and assessments in the European Union and Iceland. But it's like with many other reports, they don't want to talk at all, they should always talk about it. It's all there is to it. The European Union has been around for a long time, man can make up some fantasy stories and exaggerations about the European Union, but anyone who wishes to study it can. Men can learn exactly what I said and see if it's right. If someone wants to know the outcome of the Icelandic experts, who studied the impact on the Icelandic consumers if we are going to the EU, it is likely that we will do so and pass messages on to them. In fact, I'm going to do something about getting that message out, if you ever get to talk about the European Union with these people who are trying to get Iceland there, with the consequences they're going to have. There has been some lack of getting Icelandic members of the EU to discuss the issues in public areas other than in some of the things of no importance in the larger context. Here we go. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, huh? paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hjörvar mixed in the discussions about rural society. I think it is proper to draw attention to what is stated on page 18. 3 of the Committee's opinion in the section Summits of Fundamental Committees and Authoritys on Business Partners, which says: It's the 23rd floor. The bill that deals with the weight set up is that of buying both the government and the rural society on the market and the service over 15.5 billion. K. and performed more than 49 million. K. can be offered in accordance with the shopping process of the bill. Other than this, social services are reserved, and other things. I have to admit, if you don't want to run for this money, I think it's a little special. The last time I knew, it's after my smaller, respectable president, but I think I'm doing it right, locals could use the Kingdom Hall services. Of course, rural communities themselves can set up their own shopping institutions if they want to and can cooperate if they wish to do so. But here, people were talking about it as if it were just a cost. Why go to an invitation? It is for the best price, the best ministry. That's what the game's made for. In this respect, we've had a lot of results. The other day, there were not four very large government agencies that offered computers and paper, and they were saving over 90 million. K. I think we should have an environment that encourages public citizens to have an invitation. I thought that's what it was like to encourage you to do that. This is no small amount, no five hundred thousand. That's 15.5 billion on one side. K. for goods, services, 49 million projects. K. If anyone doesn't want to offer more than 49 million projects, I think it's a little special, I'll just admit it and be completely honest with it. But I'm sure it's going over. It's true that this will bring into the community's self-determination rights. However, I feel very important that we have an invitation, both to a government and to our community. I would expect people to rejoice when we take such steps, and if they're not going to offer out these large sums, at least there's a very, very good reason to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u99	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a resolution for a four-year transport program in the early year 2015-2018. How happy we are that we will finally see to the end that we can agree to the four - year transport program! Sadly, this has not been successful in recent years and has not been the basis for the transport that has started since collapse except the budget of each year. We discussed the matter extensively and were actually contacted on the committee by all the members who had either sent in a review or who wished to attend a meeting of the committee for their purpose and cooperate with them. These are enormous numbers of people, and they had a number of meetings to go as well into the foundation of this case as possible. It would be too long to trace all of them here and now, but I refer to the transport committee as support. Just a brief look at the rules of transport. Today, the General No. 48/140, 19 June 2012, for a transport program by 2011-022. On that same day, the resolution of the Generals agreed on a four - year program for 2011-2014. Council proposals for a four - year transport program for the 2013 2011s were submitted to the General Assembly at the 141th legislature but were not discussed. It was submitted again to the 143th legislature but was not granted. The proposal for a four-year transport plan was submitted to the 144th legislature and was then supplied with an environmental and transport committee but not fully paid. This is the payment that took place about a year ago, and although it hasn't been paid off, I believe it was very important that the committee finished her work. This was the first time during this ideal period, which the committee had time, although in bed, to bring parties to the committee meeting and cross. The decision adopted from a committee, although not finished, was laid as a basis for next year's budget and many of the projects that were pointed out to be needed and needed to get a walk in the budget of this year. I give as an example to the Commission's proposal to put capitals at the Ness shop, he had not been funded, there was a deal that it would be done by protest from the government. The financier confirmed this, and the Minister of the Internal Affairs got it done. It was good that we started that assignment. Thus, in 2015 and the total number of 2016, a four - year schedule has not been established and is in opposition to 2 mg. Section 3. adapting transport programmes. The Commission has concluded that in a four-year transport program, government policies in the maintenance and development of the transport system are being developed by the establishment of democratically elected representatives at the General Assembly. It is vital, therefore, that there is a four - year transport program on which to build that work. It is a special joy to see that we are here and now being on a four - year transport program, particularly in view of the fact that many rural and national groups have pointed to the importance of agreeing with the transport programme from the Council, that is the basis for major projects, such as those with animal soils. The road plan pointed to the committee's meeting that it was necessary for them to have a transportation plan and other means of transportation so that they would have a firm legal basis on the approval of the Generals so that they could begin a very important project. As I mentioned earlier, the representatives of all parts of the country arrived, but at the scene they operate in the rural areas of the country. Transport practices are in nature such that they require special attention to land interests, as transport infrastructure is linked together and create larger sectors. In this way they perform basic infrastructures as the transport system is an important part of society. It is a fact, and it can be referred to in recent decades that employment areas have grown with the development of better transportation, thus providing greater opportunities for the inhabitants of the areas. Hence, whites have shown that transport is very important for urban development in the country and, in fact, the need for a population of more varied employment than is now available to flourish around the country. We have a detailed discussion of the importance of air transport and have pointed to important roles, both for the public and for the government, as well as for most government institutions located in the capital area but in the interests of all the people of the country. We specifically discussed traffic security and discussed the importance of priorities so that environmental security is presponsored. We believe in a greater reason to point out a road to the Eyjafjörður, South Fjordur Way of the Far East, Roastland Road, a road out in the Southlands, Grindavík Road, which is a very busy road for the Blue Lon, and an increasing fishing business in the Grinavík. Of course, this is not the case. The proposal assumes that in this year less than 18 billion will be available, less than 20 billion by 2017, and 21 billion by 2018. If market bills, like most public records, had been paid, the income stocks would pay up to 23 billion dollars. every year instead of 16 billion dollars. Now. This difference has been paid directly from the state funds but made as a debt of the Vega type. In view of the greater part of the Committee, these double - story accounting entries are, unfortunately, reduced donations to this important category. It is our assessment that this debt has to be eliminated and removed from the road, for we realize that money comes from the state's budget either way it comes. Unfortunately, transport contributions have been lower since the collapse of the financial system in 2008 than those in the preceding years. The contribution of the Road Building as a share of GDP is about 1.1%, which is a slight increase from the previous year. According to the proposal, and this is a cause of joy, expenses on road transport are expected to be about 1.3% for the next two years. Historically, this ratio has been around 1.5% but increased to more than 2%, i.e. In 2008, just before collapse, when the government's funds were thought to be filled with capital. In any case, we feel that this is a realistic goal to increase transport costs and that they will be in the range of 1,5◯2% of GDP. We believe that this is a realistic goal. Of course, we all agree with the need to take care of government responsibilities, but we feel that it is realistic to pursue these increases because we believe that transport is a very important category and money to it needs to be greatly increased in the coming years. It is therefore important that transport contributions follow increased land production and increased income. We've discussed in itself the difference between proposals for action on the terms of financial agendas for the period 2017-2021 and the transport program. These plans were provided at very short intervals, and unfortunately there was a difference between those who may be devoted because the first step was being set aside to work rapidly and safely, and perhaps not already provided the end of all the knots that would have to be done. We will also agree that there will be a budget for transport when the budget will be reviewed sometime in the years to come. It's nice to go on a short notice for a new Western island. According to the Law on those activities, an tender invitation was to be made either regarding the ship's construction and operation of the service agreement or the making of a vessel for all 4.8 billion. Because this proposal is available, it will be presented as a transition in a transport program, which is considered to be very good to me. That's why. paritaprevir Will Árnason, who will lead us on that point. Just a brief time on public transportation, which is an enormously important group of subjects, in my opinion. In 2012, a contract was made with the national part of the network outside the capital area on public transport, but the project was followed by a reorganization of special transport. The importance of this development was stressed, so it had to be secure for the economy. We have been concerned about the funding of the system as the basis for the exclusive rights of a particular system, which, in the opinion of the national body, makes it possible for the system to be run without a permanent loss. We agree with the concern and motivation of the General Assembly to provide the basis for the operation of the system, but we also suggest to strengthen their base of operation that we add 75 million. K. as an additional contribution to public transport in the country intended to meet the congregations at a angle. As I have been involved in this case and initially attributed to the development of public service, it has been moving to fewer places, being more specialized, like health services, and to a large extent only in the capital area. Therefore, it is still important to highlight the importance of international flight as public transportation for those who live elsewhere but in the southwest corner. It is important that we secure the area of Reykjavík as the centre of a medical flight and domestic flight in the country and that it will remain in the same form in the present location, thus ensuring the introduction of all the people of the country to the capital area and the official service there rendered. It is clear from the greater part that he places great emphasis on the transport programme that in the following years, Reykjavík's airport will remain unchanged and that his role in the public transport network, wherever it may be, will not be compromised, as the authorities in Reykjavík have repeatedly proposed and worked hard. There is reason to discuss the increased number of tourists because everyone realizes how much stress this has brought on the road system. The majority counts that we must contribute to the better distribution of tourists across the country and to the expansion of other routes, such as domestic flights. This would help to reduce the pressures on highways and tourist roads as well as on other infrastructures. Prevention plans are set up for the cost of 106 billion dollars. in a road and negative program for the season. A focus on the priorities of projects is on new projects, but it is suggested that in the latter part of the period, 7 billion will be spent annually. for maintenance projects, which is an increase of 1 billion. from the last planned schedule to be treated. The figures are rising a little in this opinion, and hopefully they'll come out, as I'll come back to. In view of the greater part, it is very important to increase the proportion of projects maintenance over the next few years in terms of increasing traffic. So in 2017 or 2018, the majority suggest a total of $2 billion. added to maintenance road. It is important that we also look to the capital area. The main founding pathways in the capital area belong to and to the State's responsibility, the largest roads in the country. So we propose a search for ways to finance the Dwl course by means of private transport. Visitors and advisors of the Committee agreed on the need to place more money on road maintenance and implementation in cross-cutting areas and to reduce the number of single bridges. Thus, the majority of the Committee contributes to an increase of the budget so that by 2017 it will be 8 billion instead of 7. The majority also suggest that the year 2017 and 2018 will be over 500 million each year. K. In addition to the asphalt of a malbian link road and the same amount of money on a bridge, plus 100 million. K. conducted on local roads. Although there is a significant increase, I believe that over the years, we need to improve the quality of these materials; maintain road maintenance, improved interfaces, and decrease in single - beamed bridges. This is a huge, massive, costly project, but I think all the people of the country are fully aware of the importance of it. We suggest completion of the project on Kappos Road, an extremely important road to travel in northern lands. How happy we are to be able to say that by means of this funds, this work will be completed! This is of utmost importance for the development of tourism, a large part in closing the so - called diamond ring, and will make it possible for the northern society to enjoy even more of this immensely beautiful region, and all that is leading up to increasing tourist currents. We also suggest that the construction of Mount Morisco will be carried out until 2017 and 100 billion. K. Added in 2018. We also suggest that 200 billion will be placed on the year 2018. K. In the year of Peace, it's important to the Snæfells community. We propose 150 million. K. will be placed in the Cradle and Höuna Road in 2018. It involves an important road to travel in the southern part of the country. On the same basis there will be 60 billion. K. Embraced Bishop's Lane from Geyski to the Tuungi in 2017. We propose construction at the Valley of Bjords and the city soil around the Northern Republic of England in 2017 and up to 250 million. K. will be provided to you in that year and to 500 million. K. A little extra to the city soil in 2018. Then in 2018, we suggest implementation at the Hörgáll Valley and 200 billion. K. will be given to the project in that year, the inhabitants of that area have waited many, many years for them to be completed. It's one of those roads that's been pushed back and back and forth, but hopefully we'll be able to complete that important move now. So that's 300 million. K. will be spent to complete the construction of Key Pass in 2017; the important safety issue due to the large tourist stream around the road, and the important role the road will play as a backup route to Reykjavík as the two-fold western highways of Kjalarnes begin in 2018. In this way, a greater proportion of the items contribute to further funding for implementation in the corner road through the Hornground, making it 250 billion. K. Adding to it is the year 2017 and the year 100 million. K. 2018. The majority suggest that 2017 be 400 million. K. • providing necessary implementations on the bridge at Lake Elvens, which lost weight tolerance as a result of a major breach on the eastern bank of the riverbed in the last Roftár. In addition, the greater proportion suggests that 2017 will be 300 million. K. For example, in 2017 or 2018, there will be 100 million each year for the rotation of the road between the Bavret and the Nesway. K. for the building of mold roads in Skardds' Valley, and in 2018 there will be 200 million. K. Pawned in the asphalt of the Berry's End, 200 million. K. Work on Lakes Road and 60 million. K. Through Eaglenes Road. We received a tip from Eyjafjörður that the construction of bicyclist footpaths had been almost exclusively in the capital area. We feel very important that land too will be gone and that it will build a bicycle path there. It's a pleasure to see how interested the Eyjafjörður authorities are in giving a good race path. We therefore suggest that in 2017 and 2018, there will be a budget of 30 million bicycle footpaths. K. every year. We got a representative from the organization to stop here and no further. They fight for reform on the Smokey Way. We suggest that in 2017, 200 million will be provided. K. The construction of telephone grounds on the road, and the year 2018, 100 million will be provided. K. to improve the negative road, but before any of the projects can be done, necessary planning is needed in the area. However, the actions of the phone morning can begin quickly and stresses that it will be, with a significant degree of traffic. Indeed, the organization did a tremendous success in fighting for this improved transport. I'm just gonna go over the tunnel for a minute. It is being carried out in the construction of the North Sea, an enormously important project. It began in 2013 and is designed to end 2017. Then it is good to report that construction is proposed at an animal tunnel between Eagle Fjords and Animal Lands on the West. There is a need for a legal warrant and an agreed transport plan, as I already did. In turn, geological research is expected to be carried out in the future treatment of the Soil along with the construction of animal soils, with the majority of which suggest that space is now in place. I think it's very important that this should be made clear because I believe that these tunnels can become important in improved housing conditions, not only on the Seyardir, but on the whole of the East, and hopefully lead to a linking of the foam with a so-called circle connection through the Moafjörður and that we can see them become a reality sooner than later. It is good to relate that in the Studies of the University of Akureyri and the University of Iceland, tunnels and services have a positive effect on women's employment, have more variety of jobs, and are used around urban areas. We also contribute considerable funds to the docks. This is of utmost importance to professional life and valuable creation. We're setting up funding for the Grinst. We contribute funds to the Council of the Cove, support funding for research in the Off-Ends, and recommend implementation of the harbor at Dalvik in the program, but to the Committee it has been reported that property will be distributed under a fishing house at the docks that will have a major impact on the town's sector. Then the more part contributes to the improvement of the seaports at Sigluard and for armada in Brenull Valley and is awarded 17 million. K. to the harbor of Eaglestastah, the amount of money comes to the deduction of projects at the docks of Rifi. At the same time, a greater proportion of the committee contributes to a total of 35 billion. K. In 2017 in the rebuilding of a South Park in Sandmaking, which has become dangerous because of wastefulness. Then we'll put 35 million. K. at the harbor in Helguvík, but in recent years the government has been building a Smokeynes and making investment agreements for two projects there. We recommend 52 million. K. To add a dikes to the plain of Moriscos. It's nice to tell you that we're finally making sure that the cost of a project in Akureyri will be realized. This has never been carried out on a transport program and has long been stipulated for funding to use the material from the Valallian tunnel in the construction of the flight barn. The airport is still ahead, but there is an enormous amount of transport involved. We suggest we set some 90 million. K. In 2017 and 70 million. K. In 2018, for example, to take over the material and complete that transport, the aircraft can then be attacked in the structure, and I reiterate that it is very good to be able to get this done on the trigger. We have talked a lot about the growth of domestic flights, how they can be done. Sadly, there are many of the concerns that humans have of the state of domestic flight and of airports. Although we're making quite a few improvements in airports across the country, I believe that in the years to come, we're going to have to do something better. The growth of the international flight is the largest factor in spreading more tourists around the country, so we suggest that the international flight will be especially strengthened, not only by the means of today's funding but by all means so that flight prices can be lowered between parts of the country, which are extremely important. We want this to be done in part by the public transport system, and that's why we're making 300 billion. K. as a starting line to find ways to secure the location of the internal airport and a modest price for transport. We also suggest that the national environment changes may be made as a result of its social interests and, as I said earlier, be determined to reduce flying prices. We call them several ways. We also believe that it is important to reevaluate the directions of Istavia's management arrangements and to reexamine the profits made from the operation of the Cheflavor airport in behalf of all the people of the country, and to build up a flight course all around the country. Sadly, the enormous profit that has resulted from the growth of tourists has been almost exclusively in the construction of the region. This is the company of all the people of the country. We feel that the structure needs to be seriously examined. To say that I want to thank the members of the Environment and Transport Committee for a lot of work and that we have been able to do a lot of serious research and have called all of this information. We tried to see, and we made a special trip in the West and the North, and we would have wanted to get beyond that. There is good reason to thank the members of the committee in both smaller and more parts. Although we in the greater part write on this committee opinion, they seem to support the projects we offer, even though they may have some other emphasis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u100	Mr. President. Perhaps there is reason to wish. A senator's happiness is finally becoming the possibility that this government will produce a transport plan or complete it, but it can also be no later, a terminal government in the final record. The problem, however, is that the contents are far too sad. Even if the adjustment is good enough, there is no way to rejoice over how much longer we are in the effort to restore funding to this category in the normal ratio of GDP. The need has become so intense that there is no longer any dispute. I want to ask you why. First of all: Won't the government and the greater part have to admit that the adjustment of the proposals is natural recognition that man has made a big mistake in not adding more to this group of lawsuits with a better national economy for the past three years? Those years are gone, we've been starving it all too much. Secondly, I wanted to hear what. A senator reviews only where the government and the rest have not brought up the price of the recent losses of income companies. This has resulted in relaxation of probably 7 billion to 8 billion, compared with increasing traffic. Today, there have been exceptionally favorable circumstances in which to earn the extra income that traffic itself pays. Of course, she is the one who has the right to pay for the transport. With fuel prices dropped in the world market and prices sold at home by about 50, 60, 70 k. In fact, it has been extremely convenient to take, even in stages, to increase markets, oil charge, special tax, heavy tax, and oil tax, and it would have brought an increase of 7 billion to 8 billion. How does more of the parts respond to this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u101	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. A senator rejoices over the increased contribution shown in this committee list. I agree with him. I am very happy to be standing here, pointing out that we are adding to the project about $11.5 billion, which is a tremendous contribution. Actually, I've spoken for myself that we need to increase the share of gross national product. It was 1.1% from collapse and in the past government, but we have managed to raise it to 1.3, which is positive. We need to raise it even more, just as I came in earlier. It is true that the senator made it possible that with a better national interest, we need to contribute more money to transport. I have talked extensively about it, but I have shown that the emphasis has been on making additional contributions to health care and to many other important issues. I have also pointed out that allowing transportation to continue, as a result of collapse, can become more nationalized. Of course, in all of this, we need to take care of responsibilities. We need to be careful that a plan is in harmony with the national budget. I agree with what. A senator, as is very clear in the leading section's list, believes that market income will be paid as much as most of the public records. We think it's impossible accounting that this is a move in favor of the State's Road Type, and we've pointed out that it needs to be blown off and removed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u102	Mr. President. I had the option of attending one meeting on a transport committee this spring. So I took up this matter, as it were. A senator recognizes, spoke. I remember saying, and I'm going to repeat it: I feel it's impossible to solve a transport plan here once a long - term plan has been distributed, which is also a great disappointment, and that this situation has not yet been resolved. This needs to be done either because of public financial legislation and the expected changes in future events, even the deduction of all or the most market income. I have considered that it must be a personal thing to be crossed over the accountable debt of this exercise, which is nothing more than exercise, to blow out some huge debt to the money fund because men have made political decisions to put money directly out of the state's budget in addition to market income in recent years. If no market income remains, what will the road pay the debt? Why are the ruling parties not making a decision in this matter? That's weird. With respect to the airport situation, it is good to see that people want to show the color of the change proposal, but it is more than a year after the committee gave direct suggestions on how to reduce the price of cargo. What are these 300 million thinking? Are they to enter the Service Convention? Has the Ministry of Economics been talked about doing what is, in itself, the simplest thing, and it's dropping or reimburseing the value tax of domestic fuel? It is a very progressive operation to reduce the cost of flying directly and could result in a half of the 15 to 18% reduction of the cargo we set for the Committee. It doesn't seem that there's ever been a sizable practice of this proposal, this report, for more than a year before, it's only about 300 million people there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-28-159.u103	A respectable president. Perhaps the only ones who made money were the ones that made it. So now, during our last term, we discussed it here at a conference hall, wondering whether we should not eliminate the required income because it is not just the market of the road income that has been used in other cases, such as the welfare, but elsewhere. That was a suggestion, if I recall correctly, for the last government to suggest that it be done. But I agree with what. A senator says that we have not yet been unacceptable. Even if that has not been achieved now, it may be a project for the next year that these accounting records are corrected. We can see in our hand that it is not good to have government records in this way. It is also true that there was a committee that covered domestic cargo prices. What came out of it was that the State's curses were not really that high mail at a plane ticket price, I think of about 1,500 bucks. every plane ticket, that's important. Of course, it does matter, but perhaps it did not completely change the situation. Therefore we say that there may be further, that it may be done much further. We can see in our hand that air traffic prices for maybe 20,000 bucks. In addition, there is no other way and it is more expensive to fly within a country than often between countries. That is why these funds are supposed to go on and ask whether we should take the domestic flight and make it part of the public transport system. This funding is actually the first step in that direction. The last government made a contribution to the public transportation system in the capital area, in the street. Here we go. Let us hope that these funds will succeed and that within a short time, we will not see drastic changes in the right direction.
