ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u1	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis proposal for a implementation plan on the affairs of immigrants. According to Article 7. shall be submitted by the secretary to the Council for the Council for a resolution on the implementation of a four - year strategy on the affairs of immigrants, at the same time obtaining counsel from other councils, institutions, multi-creatures and embassies. Is this the first time recommended for such a synonym proposal after a legal arrangement on the affairs of immigrants was adopted in 2012. The main objective of the Parliamentary arrangement recommended here is to promote a community where all can be active participants regardless of nationality or background. Therefore, the clinical significance of the has been shown by taking into account the interests of immigrants in policies, administration and public service. The implementation programme of this programme is designed to ensure equal opportunities for all citizens of the country regardless of their individual factors and circumstances. A community without separation will be promoted, allowing each individual to have the opportunity to enjoy himself whatever he or she comes from, thus able to enrich society. It is important that individuals and families move to Iceland to have the opportunity to have a successful life here in the country. The needs of emigrants in public policy needs to be considered, and the community as a whole has to deal with new situations, whether at work, in school, in health care, or in other government and rural welfare services. The strategy as recommended here was conducted in collaboration with emigrants, such as I mentioned, as well as a search for experts within the university community, among the institutions, and in rural areas. At the same time, the points published in the 2015 Public Review Report on the affairs of foreigners and immigrants were used. At the beginning of the work, the main points that had been received to the Icelandic government from international institutions and committees were also being developed in an open reporting process on the Ministry's website. The proposal of an immigrant council was to watch four pillars; the family, education, work market, and community. Four work force groups were appointed accordingly. In view of the degree of reversal and change in refugees'affairs, however, it was decided at later stages to add the fifth only support to refugees'affairs, but, of course, all measures in the plan also include refugees, where they are also immigrants. The implementation programme consists of 30 measures under the five supporting measures outlined here. A community foundation is seeing projects that present opportunities in different cultural backgrounds and thus use the knowledge of immigrants to promote Icelandic society. This emphasizes that the measures contribute to the active involvement of immigrants in the community. A wide range of partnerships, media, employment life, and immigrants will be sought to achieve action. Among the measures involved are education to employees of the state and to rural society and a reward to those involved in professional, careful, informed discussions on the affairs of immigrants and their participation in the community. Family study highlights projects that contribute to the increased information being given to immigrants first after their arrival in the country. They should seek ways to highlight their circumstances in a housing market and work to improve their housing security. In this regard, support will be given to the immigrants who are bent out and lacking support in the country. They will also be working to increase the participation of children and young immigrants in organized sports and youth activities. One thing I would like to mention specifically in chapter B, about family service, is that B.2 is a model for the reception plan. It aims to appoint a group of members who are assigned to form a model for a formal welcome program for rural society. We had studied what individual rural societies had been doing and thought that it might be very important to have a formal plan. It is estimated that at the end of 2019, at the end of 2019, at least 15 rural communities have adopted a formal welcome program and that these rural communities will reach the majority of immigrants in Iceland. It may not be surprising, a respectable president, that the budget has special discussions on the premises. It has been observed repeatedly that housing conditions in foreign populations may be difficult, and immigrants in our neighboring countries are defined as one of the delicate groups to consider when it comes to housing and a very high percentage of immigrants are e.g. in the tenement. In view of an earlier talk on equality and violence, I would like to mention that in all the programs I have been working on is linked to the violence, and there I have stressed that we use the limited resources we have and the energy we have by integrating the plan in this way. We are also becoming more aware of the fact that there may be other discrimination factors that strongly influence people's position beyond what may be the most common concern, a sex, but as mentioned here, they can be the origin and disability, as mentioned in the previous talk. This is especially true in regard to the support of women who have had domestic violence and then violence in general. That's what I, Minister of Internal Affairs and Education and Culture Ministers have put us together to work out an anti-violent strategy that has specifically entered vulnerable groups, the vulnerable. It speaks especially of disabled people and of those affected by immigrants. Then there's a third foundation, education. It's very important. The education program highlights equal positions and equal opportunities for education as well as the evaluation of the knowledge and experience of immigrants. The plan is suggested to be more efficient than has been in terms of the expulsion of immigrants from high school with support for all schools, including with increased emphasis on teaching in their mother tongue, children with a language other than English. It also emphasizes improving the quality and availability of Icelandic education for immigrants. I think it's very important that this strategy goes to the General and Education Committee, as I will suggest, and also a report on the status of immigrants in Iceland. It contains very interesting information that we would like to have different, as in the case of disfellowshipping. That's what we're working on with this strategy, especially when it's time to drop out of high school and then move on to college, so education is, in my opinion, absolutely important. The labour market highlights the strengthening of the workforce's status by immigrants and ensuring that they have the same tools as others. Salaries of a labour market will be put first as well as ensuring immigrants additional opportunities for re-education and work-related studies. This will be expected in one of the measures taken to improve the monitoring of work sites. If there's something I think we can say that we've been doing pretty well in this situation, then it's a business group of people of foreign origin. She may have been the main reason why she has walked well in the seminary. We saw, however, that since the collapse, unemployment for immigrants grew a lot. It took longer for their unemployment to decrease than for people born in Iceland who were not of foreign origin. Here we are considering factors that we really feel need to correct when it comes to the workforce. For example, there is the percentage of immigrants in public and community positions. You can only look at the conference when there may be others sitting in it. Remunerations in the labour market in general will be put in place, this is not a social subsidiary in any way, and the labour market network is supported. In our small community, we all know how important the network can be. Then we will discuss increased opportunities for re-education and work-related studies and the growing number of expert immigrants in Iceland. I am very pleased with the bill on alien laws discussed above, but especially with the changes being made on the job law when it comes to immigrants. I really hope that it will lead to that, along with what we are doing in this program, that more specialised immigrants can use their knowledge and skills in the Icelandic labour market as well as those already in the country. The refugee service emphasizes that refugees quickly get an opportunity for active participation in society, whether in a labour market, in education, or in other areas. At the same time, refugees will be helped to deal with the tragedies they face. It will be emphasized to help people to fit themselves in here, as well as refugees, and here, through the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees as well as those coming to the United Nations by other means. In order to develop the services and policies of refugees for the most efficient welcome they will focus on studying the interests of refugees as soon as possible after their arrival in the country. A committee is proposed as a map plan for present services and suggest how to add services to refugees after retreat treatment, and then the committee proposes a agreed welcome system for refugees. Special attention should be given to the aspects of rural society and their free partnerships in the welcome of refugees, as well as the link between administrative institutions and education for the staff of state and rural society involved in the hosting of refugees. I believe there's a very important proposal and it's urgent that we take care of it. In any case, we have been impressed by the welcome of host terrors in particular of the vulnerable groups of refugees. The United Nations Refugee Organization of Refugees has a specific definition of the status of refugees by evaluating the delicate status of the individual. One group we have received is single mothers, single women with children to flee. Another group are queer people who are often persecuted not only in their own country but even in the refugee camps where the individual are and another group we have also received are people who need special help because of poor health or disability. They will consider how we can continue to support these particularly vulnerable groups, but along with considering those who come here and get a fugitive's position in a life of refuge. As long as the Senate resolution proposal is made, I submit a Senate document, which is a state and development report on the affairs of immigrants, according to Article 8. the law on the affairs of immigrants. It is the first time that such a report is submitted to the Council. The report provides further support for the suggestions for action published in the implementation programme and the development of the report on the report in the recent years and its current situation. The report shows evolution in the last 15 years, and it can truly be said that the landscape was somewhat different from the fact that 3.2% of the people were immigrants in the year 2000, but it is now estimated that 10% of the population was the first and second generation of immigrants. The report also discusses the job involvement of immigrants, but 9.3% of the workforce in this country has a foreign country. They discuss the status of immigrants within the school system and the development of refugees in general. A respectable president. I've explained the fundamental issues, and I really hope that the Constitution proposal for the first legal development program in the affairs of immigrants, which is presented here, will contribute to a community in which all can be active participants regardless of nationality or ethnic background. I allow myself to suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to. The General and Education Committee and a subsequent discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u2	A respectable president. Now that I am a little late into the night, I see no reason to extend the discussion. I sort of come up to the speaker's place, in answer to the minister, to describe my pleasure in such a strategy. It's time. It also answers the call of time to provide such a plan, one that deals with the hosting of refugees, i.e. how we live for people after they have moved to the country and how we can easily adapt to Icelandic society and remain active in a workforce. I would have chosen, as shown in a foreign - law lawsuit, that there was one institution to have it by hand, i.e. to guide, assist, and protect the interests of immigrants, both when they come here and seek refuge, but also in the first few months, and after they have been received here. It also reveals a considerable degree of national culture how we receive those who seek us and how they are made up of everything. I'm glad that this plan has come to light. It is a sign and a witness to the issues we as a nation have to face because of the events taking place in the world around us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u3	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying, "To the highest. " A minister then and then a minister. paritaprevir An Ólína Þorvarðardóttir Kjerúlf of the village that it is important that a conquistador proposal such as the implementation of an immigrant strategy is proposed. Yet, I rejoice that there are a few things I would like to do in a brief talk. I'd like to start by saying, "To the highest. " Ministers that what is discussed in section C, on education, is of utmost importance. However, I have a little bit of concern that it may not be firm enough, that I would like to see even more strongly the importance of Icelandic instruction being good and available. I feel that the government should work to allow immigrants to attend a course in Icelandic language to form during work hours without cost. I think it would help people to make themselves home in Icelandic society. Similarly, I feel that it is very important to maintain well the interests of people's mother tongue and, especially, children. I think it's good that C.2 is discussed, because to be able to participate in society as a competent member of society, it is necessary to have a language that you know well and understand well in order to think simply complex and difficult thoughts. It is vital, too, that we have a deep, meaningful conversation with our immediate family. That's where I think the native tongue was a huge deal. In fact, I think it's a fine goal that it's suggested in 2018 that 75% of students in Icelandic as a different matter get a local or remote education in their own mother tongue. I ask, since this plan covers the year 2018, why are we stopped in 2018? Isn't the goal of going to a greater than 75%? This may be some fine setting point that the committee might consider because it is a very important matter. Joint C.3 involves measures for removal from studies. I'd like to put a little question mark on what is involved in the project, which says that work must be done that as many high schools offer an appropriate study offer. I wondered what an appropriate study offer is. Shouldn't the policy be that immigrants complete the same education as other foreigners for generations? I feel that there's a need for attention to the wording and what we're going to do. It would have to go further. Chapter D discusses the workforce. There I would like to be especially welcomed by D.6, which is about improved work-supervising. We have often heard of how foreign workers are being treated badly. Sometimes people come here temporarily and may not be considered immigrants in that sense, but this also applies to immigrants, people who may not know their rights in the same way as those who have been here and who have grown up in the community from infancy. I think it's important that this law be inside. I also want to rejoice over what is said in section E about refugees and with a minister that the point of E.1 is particularly important to the reception of fugitives after refuge, since the inconsistencies and conditions between the people on either the way or side of it come to the country is, of course, shouting and urgent that they be reached there, and I want to make clear that this is the case, i.e. improve the rights of those who come here, not as greeting men, but as those who come here on their own initiatives, that their position need to be added just as much as those who take refuge. I also like the way E.4, to study the situation and the well - being of refugees. However, I would like to say that while this study is in force, I don't think it's enough to do just once, even if I'm not speaking at all, that there is a need for a more frequent investigation while this is in effect, but I think it's important to say to this discussion, and to maintain that, of course, it's important to do such research in a fairly regular way to get more information about the feeling and status of refugees. Of course, it can be that people who come here at different times naturally come into different social situations. Hence, their situation will be different and need to be observed. V.E.G. President. There's one point I think the committee needs to take a special look and make a change. It is part of B.7 of support for women who have had domestic violence. I am indeed glad that there is no support for those women. But the objective article says, by permission of the president: ▪ To promote the support network of non - Israelite women who have had domestic violence and thus reduce domestic violence. And thus reduce domestic violence. Here the expression goes down, for I cannot understand this sentence any more than to eliminate domestic violence by promoting the support network of violent people. Where are the doers in it? I fully agree with the content of this article, but this expression seems to me to be what is in English called ◯victim bleating, where the blame really hangs up the person. I don't think that's what's at all the top. There is a minister with this expression. Therefore, I would like to direct it to the Committee to take it and change it so that it is quite clear that this is the case with violent people, but support alone should not result in domestic violence. There are other ways in which we need to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u4	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For her speech and interest in the language, the Árnadóttir Þóra Eagledotir is very much concerned about her speech. I completely agree with the proposal to change the B.7 and the importance of saying this in a better way so that we can clearly identify what we are. It is also related to the report and to what people are considering. There should be a full sync between the two. What experts and those who did the plan for me have specifically been considering is that the proportion of women who have come to the female shelter of foreign origin is far beyond that of the nation. As I spoke of, there are 10% immigrants from the first and second generation here in the country, while of the women who went to the refuge, and hence children, 35% were of foreign descent, and 32% of the women who stayed in the safe house. They came from many lands. It also refers to a campaign that was advanced in the Southnes, the capital area, and the northern part of the country because of domestic violence. On the other hand, I would like to thank you for the tips presented in the debate. What I would like to mention, too, is that I agree with her about the importance of what is involved in the job market. We may often take care of the extent and close cooperation between the government, public institutions and labour market members when it comes to ensuring that the work market is being carried out by the law and the rules of the Icelandic labour market. That cooperation, however, is invaluable to me. There are those who work to that end and make sure that the workforce is not being abused, and we need to continue to cooperate with it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u5	V.E.G. President. I am glad to hear the minister's positive response to my speech and that the minister agrees with me that this sentence needs to be considered, because, as I said earlier, I believe the Minister's will in these matters is in support of women who have lived under domestic violence is quite clear. The wording, on the other hand, is unfortunate. I trust the highest. The minister and the Commission who completely gets the case in order to correct it so that when the concierge comes to final payment, the wording will have been turned so that no one will have to question the point of promoting and supporting women of foreign origins who have lived with domestic violence, it would have been in no way to bring the charge of violence upon them, I believe that no one would want to do so. Hence, we need to change the wording.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u6	A respectable president. So I quote the data, the report, on the 2014 Women's Annual Report, which suggests that this high proportion does not necessarily indicate that women of foreign origin are more violent than their Icelandic sex sisters. It says that the reason may be more likely because foreign women are less able to approach relatives and friends than they are Icelandic, thus having fewer homes to live with. It is then relevant to state, but the position of women from countries outside the European Economic Area, as it is naturally important to consider how diverse the background is, in many cases, worse. What's often very difficult, and that's one of the things the General and Education Committee has been discussing, is when women are even dependent on their spouses for permission of land. At the same time, a group of women report that women of foreign origin often stay longer than women of Icelandic origin at the safe haven but do not specify the difference in the distance of residence. So I hope that the committee will do well with this, find a good expression, so that it is clear what is the will of the Senate and of us at the Ministry of Health and what we want to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u7	V.E.G. President. I come up here to celebrate the fact that this council arrangement has come up. This is a matter that is important to our society. It is vital that we handle the affairs of immigrants well. I'm happy to see how clearly this is installed and analysed. We certainly need individuals to be added to our community, to welcome those who want to join us and become active participants. I think it's very important how this is presented here, to emphasize opportunities that involve the different cultural background of the people of the country, and to use the knowledge of immigrants to promote Icelandic society. True, our community has often been quite unique, as is the strength for society to become as diverse as possible, we are in international relations, and it is good to contribute to our becoming as much active in the community as any of us are looking here, it is invaluable to us. Then we come from a different background. It is very important that people be received and welcomed. I'd like to mention a project I got an introduction on, i.e. We've got a surprise for refugees in Akureyri. That assignment has been extremely successful. It shows how successful it can be when society is ready, and it is certainly in Akureyri. As well as in the close-ups, everyone shared fully in it, and they were really willing and there are, there's never been anything to do about it. There is a fine example of how this has been accomplished in all its parts. The interest of local residents and the joy of receiving new residents has indeed been demonstrated by people who have shown interest in this subject, offered assistance, appeared as volunteers in the most amazing places and at all times and really opened the community to new residents. It is a real joy and satisfaction to see how children are falling into school, people come into the workplace, and these are doing well because all of us are taking responsibility for such assignments and taking to heart the responsibility we are to take care of. I wanted to draw attention to this remarkable act there and how it has worked out. That task is one of those who can totally look to and see how it has been accomplished. This will help us to see how this work is being done. In section A.3. is referred to as a source of encouragement for which the goal is to promote a more professional, more elaborate, and up - to - date discussion of immigrants and their participation in the community. I think this is a hugely important factor, as shown in A.4, which is about education for employees of the state and rural society. It must be the basis for everything to be able to communicate knowledge and experience between people who are working on this project and how we can keep it in rhythm. In the Akureyri introductions, it was observed that there should not be a gap in this process, that the time between groups should not be too long. There is something that we need to consider: What are we as a community to welcome in many groups, how exciting, and how hard can we succeed in doing so well, and are we ready to continue working toward that? There is a friend in this matter that we need to consider so that all of this will turn out well and that everyone will feel comfortable with this project. I think we should be quite able to achieve those goals, as we have shown ourselves and in other places. The democratic involvement of immigrants and the cooperation of immigrant social and stakeholders is very important, for people to get to know the infrastructure and immediately find themselves participants, and to see how they can affect their interests, such as other citizens in this country. They talk about cooperation between institutions, as we have seen here. That's extremely important. I agree with what has been presented in that subject. It is based on the fact that immigrants receive best information as soon as possible after arrival into the country and have easy access to all their information and means, which way they can go to get information and become participants. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir This is what Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir said about the reception and wording in an article that deals with the support of women who have had domestic violence, but I trust the Committee and the people working in the council who will accept this body of Congress proposals perfectly to work on all these matters and that they will be successful. But I'm happy that we're here and I hope we have the best way of handling these matters. I'm glad our community will be more diverse and varied.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her speech and particularly the point she made regarding the importance of being prepared and positive for welcoming people of foreign background, whether we are talking about refugees or immigrants in general. We all know in our small community how important our network is, whether we're putting on Facebook, we're looking for an apartment or our first summer job. If we just think back on how we got it, it was very often through our friends and acquaintances through the network. That's what people don't have when they come into a new community. This is how society can focus on what it can do, such as having an organized welcome program where family or members who move into society get immediate contacts, contacts that can tell them about things we don't really think about, such as what to give on our birthday when birthday parties are on. As we have lived in small towns, we know that it's not often said that a house is a number, but it's Gunna's house; we're all supposed to know where Gunna's house is. There are such things that can be so priceless, and we do not often realize that it is the most important thing. We may often think that more important things are involved in housing, household equipment, clothing, these worldly things, but these are the most important things to succeed in this and that of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u9	Thank you very much. Social and housing minister for the counter-relevant and will agree with her point of view. How important it is that our communities are ready, that we prepare ourselves because we have few prejudices and if we lack knowledge and that we do not approach the people who are coming! We need to realize that we need to talk to each other in order to build communities, and we need to communicate. But I can tell you that in the community where I live, I was asked a few years ago, where I cared for adult education: Don't there be many foreigners who have no weapons? I said, "No, there are no foreigners. " Then I started thinking about it. Yes, I could count a lot of people, but those individuals came right into families, had their network, and got guidance on things that seem so small and are of little importance to us, received guidance from the families about what you have in your meals, how you go to various places, and other simple things that we're not wondering about. This is what matters, how we should approach, what is normal for us to bring to school, and when you can visit, or what is normal to do in dealing with the kids in your class, and what is not, how we play after school and what else. Then there are some children who did not understand why the girl who moved to society never wanted to play with her after school. It was because she didn't know it from her community she used to live because it wasn't allowed to be out, it was so dangerous. It was wonderful to observe the discovery that happened to her baby when she realized she was free, she could stay out, it wasn't dangerous. All she had to do was call in. Such things are important and help us to make our society enjoyable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u10	Mr. President. This is the second time that I make a call to this team to call attention to the same matter, which is a petition submitted on October 15 of the fall and was approved at the World Council of 20th October, a petition to which I am the first apostle and with eight others. Councilmen, to the highest. Financial and economic secretary on the deification of secure real estate loans. There are five questions related to the implementation of secure real estate loans. I brought this up the other day, um... Two weeks, and it showed that the president of the council would get financial and economic messages that at this request would fail. I must say, Mr. President, that I find it totally unacceptable that now June has come, and the request is pronounced before seven and a half months; it has not yet been answered. I find it totally unacceptable, and I recommend that the General wants the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs to respond to this report request, so we're going to do it. The members of Congress who established it on October 15 receive clear answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u11	The President knows after the night. A senator alerted the case after the result was made, but this is certainly grounds for presidents to reinvent the matter and will do it as he has a chance to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u12	V.E.G. President. In the numerator, Gylfi Zoëga recently states to the president's permission: If the favorable economic development described here is to be maintained after recovery of capitalists, it is necessary to start a new economy that reduces active interest between Iceland and major business countries. If this is not the case, investors may try to profit from interest by buying a dollar and investing in domestic bonds. The crown's gang will then grow stronger and its travel services will get worse. It is just as it is good to have the sensible person express it, but it is reasonable to say that he is also a member of the World Bank of Money, which decided this morning to keep the steering growth in Iceland unchanged at 5.75 percent, which means, in fact, 6.5% interest in 1.7% of inflation that is currently measured for some time. That decision, one of many in a long line, is as wrong today as it used to be. If people were very serious about setting up a new economy here, I don't think they'd be remembering the current situation to keep growth unchanged in these hills while threatening an increase in these growth if inflation is rising, but in Iceland inflation rates are now only measured and basically single-handedly on the Kalkofens Road, where the Secret Bank is located because others are not expecting inflation, as inflation is not expected. The crown's scholarship is still being returned to products, etc. It is a very serious matter, however, that now it is pushing in money that is never before before, because of the interest rates offered by the Navy. They're a sign of future trouble and disaster if the Sustainer doesn't look at himself in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u13	A respectable president. As a representative of a transboundary group at the General Assembly, who takes special interest in the affairs of children and young people, I was very happy to see that the setting has been set up for a children's house in 30 cities in Sweden. During an interview with the press in Sweden, the Swedish queen said that the Icelandic Children's House was a wonderful idea, but she gave a address to the Norwegian Children's Fund recently and gave some special thanks to the Icelanders for introducing Children's House in the Northern States. More countries now want to join the British, Lithuanian, and Cyprusns. Babyhouses care for the affairs of children who have been subjected to sexual harassment or violence. There is one field for those responsible for the investigation and handling of these matters, such as judges, prosecution, police, doctors, and child - welfare authorities. Imagine how much better it would be for a child in this pathetic situation to be interviewed by all of these people at one place where the environment is warm and tailored to the child's needs, rather than by a child in shock. Of course, Icelanders can be proud of the pioneers who were guided by the interests of children and who let this pioneers continue to guide their children to the best interests of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u14	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss growth and housing to the extent that these issues are held together. If we start with the Secret Bank, the Unified Control Program, I have previously told it in this discourse that if results are measured by target design, the National Bank is doing well in carrying out its money policy. A target activity, as the primary objective is to maintain a stable level of prices and to make sure that a measure of annual prices does not exceed 2.5%. That goal has now continued for more than two years, so that goal - related results cannot be shared. Of course, it is positive not only for employment but also for plans that need to be made based on future prices and the homes that need to meet expenses based on their income. And money has grown more than ever because of its prices and price - making contracts in the United States. There's a lot of economic growth in the maps, and the level of tension increases in the labour market. In spite of all of this, we see the increase in demand and production potential. In this case, the level of merit and the years of inflammation have been measured around 1.7%. We have real-life growth here, up to about 4%. The foreign elevations may be weighed by the rise of the crown, so in some places the crown's strength is in prices. We worked here at the high General Assembly to strengthen the housing market, rented market, and market for social housing. But there is something else to be done. It requires working together to help people, especially young people, who are buying their first property. The cost of the financing is too high, too high. Here you need to extend your special savings, simplify your building rules, change your mortgage budget where your insurance is taken off. [[The president calls.]] It's sensitive for someone to talk about elections in the fall, but maybe it'll be chosen in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u15	V.E.G. President. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to celebrate the step that the Iceland government has made of the highest proposal. Prime Ministers to appoint a Western Committee that is to work on a strategy for the area, as well as to thank the Westerners for their role in the matter. The number of Western residents has dropped by 20% since 1998 as older age groups form population compositions than the reversals that have taken place in southern western West with new instruments shows that there is just a possibility, that people can be able to live and work in the area. A report on the economic growth of parts of the country that I have mentioned earlier in this group showed that production was most pronounced in Southnes and in Western Europe, from 2009 to2013. The report specifically shows that there is reason to be concerned about the development of events on the West. Marine soil is still the largest industry in Western Europe, and it appears that a recession in this article explains that production has been linked in Western Europe over the past few years. Thus, it is good to look at newer instruments in the area, many of them have grown up in recent losses, and thus keep people who would otherwise have no choice but to move from there and where jobs are offered and where wages are in accordance with others. According to the above report, the salary in the West increased by 10% less than the pay in the whole country. To ignore the settlements of the nation's oldest layer, only to create a new outer layer, which in a short time will be the new territory that needs assistance. Since we're in here, we have a chance to work on the subjects discussed here, let's celebrate this decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u16	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss a case I've actually talked about before. In recent years much discussion has taken place on the pressures of land hospitals staff as well as on the poor housing of the Agency. There have been some conflicts and plans for continuing these improvements are now being carried out. In my work at the council, I have also discussed these matters and pointed out that I could not use the powerful health institutions that are near the capital to reduce the pressures of land hospitals. In this context, I have pointed out the benefits of using the Western Health Organization for these projects. There is room for operating rooms and an empty department that could be used. At the same time, I have pointed out that there are powerful medical teams and support teams that may be taking on increased funding. I have even. Suggested that the General Assembly conclude to assign a health minister to order a group who will know how to promote the health services of Western countries and raise its budget with the aim of protecting the operation and reducing the pressures of land hospitals. The proposal also suggests making the Western Health Organization an emergency clinic for the Land Hospital. I've also asked questions about the same subject. A MBA study was delivered today as the final assignment at the University of Reykjavík. The study shows that a waiting list for replacement procedures can be shortened from 15 months to 3 months by operating operating operating operating operating at the Western Health Institute at Aranesp. It is thought that the Agency is a suitable option because of close proximity to the capital and that it is also a source of support. According to this study, there is a high level of work to be done. All patients are difficult to wait, and courting is costing society tens of millions of dollars a week. The cost of performing such an assignment is some 25 million. This investigation harmonizes with what I've been trying to point out. It is responsible if this project is further investigated and acted.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u17	V.E.G. President. A legal decision to go to a university school has been made, and today the decision has not been made to determine where the study should be taught. The University of Akureyri has expressed a tremendous interest and willingness to give up this study. The University of Akureyri is very good for that. Already a very ambitious dillo study program has been set up for 120 ECTS and 60 additional units for master studies, but it is also in school's lake, if the University of Akureyri were chosen, to offer a master's course in police studies. The important thing is that the University of Akureyri has offered to study in countless articles, including in education and nursing, in telecommunications. The school is also of the magnitude that it can provide personal guidance and personal help, and it is not necessary, those who intend to study police if it was in Akureyri, to adopt with a family because the study could be studied for an enormously important purpose. In the State Department of State, a letter from the university authorities in Akureyri covers their ideas on the police mine, and I direct them to the highest degree. Minister of Education to consider it with a very positive mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u18	Mr. President. I want to speak in my speech about the Nigerian Elzes Okafors, who was expelled from the country on Thursday last week. This happened despite his and his lawyer's application for humanitarian visas in Iceland. That happened, despite the fact that the NTSB had published that the delay was likely lost to dismiss him on the foundation of the Order of Dublin. This occurred despite the fact that the Swedish authorities would not accept him and that they would give him one week, i.e. To this day, to come forward to be referred back to Nigeria, where he fled persecution and Boko Haram, risking being captured and killed. This case is incredibly sad and very difficult to grasp what is being done in the security system. It is incomprehensible to dismiss people from the country awaiting a lawsuit in the Icelandic system, sending them out into complete uncertainty with all their spiritual distress. Perhaps the most amazing thing in all of these matters is that at the same time we send these poor people out of the country who have been here for years, they notice, and have adapted to the Icelandic community, we're bringing in all the aircraft leftovers, the labor force involved in doing all the most difficult and the lowest paid jobs in the country. If all plans and projections are to be followed in the future, thousands of foreigners will be needed to make these jobs. What's going on, Mr. President? I challenge the highest. Minister of the state of the state to use Okafor Okafor to be picked up in Sweden and granted possession and employment permit in this country, ensuring that he will not be reassigned back to Nigeria. What else would be pathetic is this is an incomprehensible act and nation that teaches themselves to be ashamed of democracy. Let's stop making terrible decisions, Mr. President, as we've been doing in this category. This isn't the first thing, I remind you of the Syriac family that was here in February. Let us give them a chance, show them fellow feeling, and give them a chance to live a decent life in peace, for that is what they want.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u19	Mr. President. In many ways I can agree with the words of the last speaker; I have not had the pleasure of following up on this discussion in the past few days. I was going to call attention to something else and maybe two. First of all, Mr President, what the Senate is doing here is very well and objectively. In my opinion, it is clear what this is, that this country is now so lucky to have a pernicious and reasonable political attitude that brings good things to its good standing and gets a normal course but does not put a stone in their path of prejudice towards the established government, as it was constantly done during the last term. We are getting closer to elections, and some people can compare in their mind how present governmental opposition is a serious matter and has worked hard to correct many basics from the highest level. Governments, and compared with the way the Specialist Party and the Independence Party, particularly during the latter part of the last term, worked organized destruction in an effort to establish a different government that was trying to rule the country under difficult circumstances. The other subjects I was going to mention are the pleasant news that came to the top of the media. Industrial and commercial minister, secretary of travel, has now been attempting to have the toilet count at the ring road. On the other hand, what to do with that count doesn't know a man, because nothing has ever come from anything the highest. Minister has tried to make a travel effort. I am prepared to comment on the activities of the council because there is a suggestion on how these matters should be handled. It is moved by several members of the left movement to a green supply, and it suggests that the road will be assigned to this responsibility and that the new destination of the road will be held throughout the country in order to solve the most urgent problem in the environment. It sucks to know what things are like and there would be a quick, active way to do that at least. to make a great deal of it and to hand it to the longest person in the country to carry out this assignment, i.e. It's the road.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u20	Mr. President. The topic of the West is often part of the discussion, and unfortunately, many people are severely diminished in the West. Since 1998 there has been a growing decrease in Western weather. There were then 8,500 inhabitants, but today there are 6,900. Now the government has awakened from a sleep-out 15 minutes before election and puts in a plan for the Westland. All right, but is there always supposed to be some kind of cramping strategy and conflict 15 minutes before election? Why not wake up after the election day and take urgent action for the weakest areas of the country, in the construction of materials that can be done in various ways? Should they now know it, and see the profit thereof? This can be done by using existing processes, pre-employment programs already done well and effectively. But this government has cut out parish plans. She's cut the transport plan. She's squeezed into high school, which goes from high school to college, as in Iceland. It has hindered the availability of people over 25 years of age to study that affects population development in these areas. She's done nothing about improving the fishing system. It does nothing to build a link and to determine it in the Deep so that it can be started during the BRD operation in order to improve the potential for employment. It is a contract made out of sheep, which is actually an attack on sheep farms, such as on the West. And that's how you could continue to count. Why don't the government ever show the power to do this differently than promise 15 minutes before elections that would enter a campaign? These matters are to be worked out with the locals and transverse. [[The president calls.]] We know the committee that founded 15 minutes for district elections, the Northwest Commission, which had only access to and his people in that district. [[The president calls.]] We want better work. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u21	V.E.G. President. I like what you're doing. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson represents Ezes Okafor as a subject here at the General. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's case was fineEzes but I'd like to keep discussing it, because it's not the first time that this situation has become such an Icelandic society. A serious fact is, however, that there seems to be nothing that can affect the Foreign Institute and the way it operates. It seems that she sees it as her job to carry as many people out and to use all available advice. V.E.G. Minister of Ólöf Nordal has said, both on TV the honor show - which I recommend everyone to see that these are excellent factors - as well as when it recommended new foreigners to be the goal amongst them. to ensure humanitarian and efficient management of foreign affairs by the government. On the same TV show, Highpana, a representative of the Foreign Institute said that their mission was to enforce government and minister policy. It certainly hasn't been done here, and I find, in view of the most reprehensible of all. Minister Ólöf Nordal has not been able to reach him on this matter. You must ask yourself: " Isn't there anything to say? Minister of this lawsuit, or does the Foreign Institute not obey the orders of his commanding officer? Either way, it's an unscrupulous and unscrupulous community to high-end shame. [[The president calls.]] This needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u22	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something with a bang. Councilmen who've been talking about the Ezes case. It's obviously a disgrace to the way we treat people. I thought it was long ago that we treated people like animals, but I guess not. What I wanted to describe, however, is really government educationalism. Where the hell is she? Now we were getting into the hands of a student loan and scholarship bill, that was distributed on Monday, and that is all there is to see is that the way we view education in this country and who is entitled to be educated. Already it's cut who's got access to the colleges. No longer can anyone go to high school, receive a proper education, but now there is a 25 - year - old limit. At the same time, it's actually here, if you read between the lines, you're supposed to have a college education by the age of 27. People are being put together in the same box. It is not to be seen as a whole and how important it is that people always have the opportunity to educate themselves, except that this proposal, this bill for law from the highest level. Well, Minister of Education, it's just some crown equal, which really isn't equal at all. What really is government educational policy? Is it to graduate all students from the University of Iceland and other colleges before age 27 or are you limiting the opportunity of family members and those who have children early in their lives to study? Is making sure that people are not able to study more expensively? Or are they merely the quality of the student loan system? It is particularly evident in the bill that it is only fine for students to take over. Then we need to start rethinking only to what the loan fund of Icelandic students is because I don't think it is clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u23	A respectable president. I just want to talk about what others have. In connection with Okafor Okafor, a member of Parliament, who was under pressure to leave the country, it has been stated against his will. He was taken by force. Sometimes I say, as many do, that it is not always against the Foreign Institute, sometimes the law is simply inhuman, and in the chapters it is. In time, however, the examples that you do not understand, not even from existing laws, of how to work like this in the first place. It's at the Foreign Institute to blame, it's to politicians, how to deal with things like Eze. I can appreciate that politicians do not want to talk about unique matters, that individual organizations do not want to talk about extraordinary matters, but these are unique matters. These are individuals, and we are responsible for them. There are rich sources of information in many countries where fairness can be taken into account and therefore similar. It is not the obligation of the Icelandic government to use the Dysician arrangement, as the European government does. It is intolerable how the Icelandic government, as if it were their duty to enforce what is apparently their will, to treat people this way. Eze lived here for four years, he's got a friend here, he's got a life. Why on earth is he not on this land? How could anyone possibly defend this nonsense? The time has come for us to pull ourselves together and stop treating these people like animals.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u24	A respectable president. There are many things that have been going on with this team today, especially with regard to the languages of the immigrant mentioned earlier. I like it like what it's like. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, calling for government education. Actually, I've done so in a written inquiry to the highest degree. A minister of education, but he received a letter asking for an appointment, which I have not, in fact, given him, but he simply takes time to do so. But it is important to know the course to take in a case like the current LINC. You need to know about the underlying factors. It involves studying abroad, etc. I'm coming up here to tell you where the birth stock bill is. It has been observed repeatedly here and at the highest. Minister of Social Affairs that she intends to raise the roof of the birthed ordinary treasure before the end of the season. That's what I talked to the highest. Minister in the last week, I think. But it's not a bill that won't interfere, and we know we're going to be in Congress this morning. Why is that? Don't the government groups agree on this? Is that for the government? We've heard that the Prime Ministers of the Foreign Missions want the matter to go on, but what about the procurators of the Independence Party? We see that the Ministers of the Independence Party do not have to respect any time limit with the contribution here. V.E.G. The Minister of Education is all but one-on-one with the LIN bill. Why not this case? We could accept it today and take care of it tomorrow. [[The president calls.]] If I were, I would.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u25	A respectable president. I'm going to destabilize myself by taking up again and again the tourist business of tourism and toilets. Now, in both the capital and throughout the country, we feel that tourism is in full control, that pressure is already under way, we are in the next tourist resort. There's no evidence other than that this is going to be the biggest and largest tourist resort yet. We know that a toilet spot on a highway, at tourist attractions, is in a total paralytic mass. The situation has become so bad, according to the head of the road, that the road has begun to check that the streets close at the highway's request for landowners because of bad associations where there is no place. This won't be over. This problem cannot be turned into some vague future, since the tourists are here, they will be here their days, their weeks, and they will have to do theirs at that time, and they will be gone, and others will be replaced. I'd also like to mention that Effla's assessment of tourism's management center was consulted with a number of people, but not with the Iceland's Institute of Scaring, so in this report, access issues were not addressed when the toilets were being checked. The road has prepared an emergency plan to be financed. I cannot help but insist that the executive position is in place and is dressed in a book on these matters. They cannot be thrown into the future. This is happening right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u26	A respectable president. I want to talk to the highest. Education minister on high school management problems, which are so serious that some of them have failed to pay the major fees. Things didn't get better when the Ministry of Economics adopted the annual procedure to turn off business payments to schools that are so-called debt to government funds. Last week, an emergency resort was made to make a single payment for school, 100 million. At a point, up to 280 million. K. possible. So the issue is by no means solved with the total number of 100 million. K. is only one third of what is needed to solve that crisis. The unsolved long - term problem, a problem that is fundamental in planning and distribution of funds to the high school stage, remains in a cosmology model that has never worked as the salary pool is being moved by the needs of the fund but not by the actual economy of schools and where there is no regard for the actual growth of students. So I'll just give you one example. During the last fall, a large increase was noted in the Snæfells School in the United States, but only about half of it was measured according to a calculus. The head of Iceland's School Master of the Schools has said in the press that there is no more cuts in the colleges to pay off debts, they have simply come to the limit of endurance. We're told that for months large schools have such as, for example, large schools. The Academy of Education at Akureyri and the University of Women in Reykjavík could not pay bills at the right time because of lack of cash. In general, colleges have even found it difficult to live under collective pay, for we know that paying is the biggest road in high school. It says so over the last few years that, um... The salary was close to 80% of the budget, but it is now more than 90%. Of course, there are a number of factors in the algorithm and the account users of the influence. The status of each school needs to be assessed. Some schools are intensified, and the pay cost is higher because the average age of teachers is high, there's teaching discounts and life - spans that need to be evaluated. The high level of teaching, of course desirable, on the other hand, increases the pay expenses of a school and seems to harm them. While using this cross-cutting method to assign money to school, they do not enjoy special privileges in this regard. According to the minister of education, the problem has been recognized. For example, he signed a book on collective agreements that the calculus of high school would be properly restored, highlighting that basic variables reflect the pay paid at any given time, as stated in the accounting, and that the censor's review would be completed at the previous half of 2015. It's been over a year since. This has not yet been accomplished. Now high school instructors have called for explanations that the pay balance of high school has not been restored and why school management is still below the limit despite declarations that the main learning arrangement for study should improve school management. So now I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on the increase in this promise to revise the arithmetic and requirements of school management. What delay does the arranged adjustment of the calculus on which school is financed? Will there be a teacher's dress contract? That is a compelling question when things are really happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u27	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for bringing up the material discussed here. Its importance is obvious, i.e. funding the high school level and how it works Those who have observed the high school discussion in recent years know that the problem we face is not new. The discussion has been a long one, both in terms of the methods we use to share the funds and funds we have for the exchange of schools. First, I want to draw attention to the fact that in 2012, I think it was, we would say that the contributions we had to each student in the high school system were about 900Yous. K. value of 2016. So it happened that high school had been in progress, and many schools were finally right in balance. There will be significant cuts in the high school system to this number, 900 fars. K. each student, while comparing himself, is that at a high school there are more than one and a half million involved in each student's study. So the calculus does not create funds. What was done during those years to meet this requirement was to take the way to subtract the money bar, absolutely correct. This did not mean that pay was not paid. But that was the way that had gone to distribute the funds. There could have been another variable. That would have been the same conclusion in itself or similar. That was the case at the time when the decision was made most wisely. But the good news is that in recent years we have been moving in the right direction with regard to the salary bar. 2014, the most salary was a multi-numbered error of 22%. Since then, this defect has been reduced. This year, it can be assumed that the lump will be 7.6% and that it will be released by 2017 or 2018. In other words, we have managed to add funds so that the clumps we discuss so much about the neighborhood. What, then, are we talking about? Why is this happening? Yes, because we've been raising the money into high school. It's not that there was a cut-off like this. On the contrary. Today, the pressure for each student at the rate of the year is 1.2 million. It's been added. But when you look at the basics that are now in a national budget and then the fact that we've gone from a four-year system to a three-year system, and the money saved keeps in the system, it's headed for the end of a government budget to become completely different in the secondary schools. Let me describe how it will appear. If we look at ourselves in comparison to the northern countries in 2012, each student in Iceland had $7,600 dollars, the money - efficient, but in Denmark it was 9,900, and in Finland, 8,500, and Sweden, 10,900. I'm going to protect a world of Congress from the Norwegian figure. But when it comes to 2020, on the basis of the current national budget and on the basis of the number of developments that are also available, the Icelandic figure will no longer be 7,600 but 10,600. Then we will have to come to the same place as a little over our neighboring nations, provided that they are not adding specifically beyond what is present. In other words, we will find that the comparison between Iceland and Northern countries in terms of funding for each student in high school will be quite beneficial to us. This has been done and done in recent years. You're right, we have a tax problem. There are problems in the system. But when people look at the bigger picture, where we came from and where we're headed, this picture appears. This can be seen by examining the figures in the budget and then comparing them to the number of student schedules available. That's it. That's it. How important it is that we succeed in handling the problems we face at each school! [[The president calls.]] But I assure you, this is what lies ahead. This is what we've decided on the budget, and it's good news that we're going to the same place that the North countries are now making on budget for each student in 2020. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u28	Mr. President. Thank you very much. I have heard them quite often. Increasing education and ability improve the quality of everyone's life. Each individual's education is a life's work, both in schools and in secular work. Unfortunately, that vision, in my opinion, is not reflected in activities of the highest degree. A minister of education, as I'm sure no one has missed because we wouldn't be here to talk about this situation. Lately, I have spoken to many who direct high school, both students and teachers. As noted in the media, all of them are deeply concerned about their high school career and financial status. The head of Iceland's School Master, as was attributed here, says that running high school is almost hopeless. It has been suggested to review this algorithm for a long time and the pay bar that has been bitten and has not reflected the real cost of pay, but it is, of course, what's going on in the high school of the country that doesn't make ends meet. It has been heard, and would now be interesting at the end of the hearing from the highest. Minister if it's true, that about 60% of the schools have a vision of loss control in the current situation. Because if there is a cut to the pay, the offer of study is reduced, which means, yes, the student's reduction, perhaps the minister's intention. More than any good reason to worry about the work in high school, both the professional and professional professions involved in education, as well as other professional activities, such as academic and professional advisers and other support, e.g. We students with special needs. How to handle this support properly is of great concern. Not to be talked about general devices, tools, and tools that have become widely out - of - date so that students cannot use the latest technology, which is unacceptable in 2016. The highest advantage of the Icelandic high school system has been flexibility, but it is sad that most of the changes that have been made by this highest source of change have been made. The minister of education goes on to narrow off the school activities, make them more monotonous and inflexible than they have been, thus reducing their prospects for a wide variety of student classes of education. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers how he intends to prevent these narrow and unacceptable high school standards from shrinking their service and how he intends to meet specific individuals in high school. [[The president calls.]] And do Ministers have numbers over the need to renew equipment in high school?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u29	A respectable president. A vision of the future. Minister's fine as far as she can go. This is where the savings that result from the short - term high school will get into the high school business, and we will see a higher amount of donations per student, to that end. But there is a certain level of credibility. He has a strong experience when you visit high school, as I did during the days - I went to Education School in Akureyri - and also when you Google: the biggest trouble in high school, which I did today. On the visit to the High School of Education, you see that they are being held at school, and, in fact, more schools, in huge numbers because of a sludge violation of the school's total success. It's just what gets on the students. This tough thing doesn't rhyme with the best plans for the future. A minister and his mind, which he described earlier. Why do you condemn the highest standard? Don't Ministers have these ways of dealing with higher schools that prey on students and that are entirely novelty, and must be corrected? So when you google, like I said, you deal with high school business, you see that it's been going on for a long time. It's like we're never gonna be able to finance this properly. This is news far back in the last century, the business of high school, the reports about it. I sometimes thought about it in general when compared with the wealth of the nations, saying that we are one of the richest countries in the world: are we? I mean, can't we just finance the instruments and the proper teaching, pay, and high school equipment of students in Iceland? [[The president calls.]] I'm just saying like the poet, where's the money?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u30	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ólína of the Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir for starting this important discussion and the highest. Minister for his answers. It is true that several of the talks mentioned here have lasted a long time. At the same time, we have heard reports of high school management problems. I would like to speak in this short talk from one point of the news, but I'm especially concerned about one group of children or students with learning problems. How important it is that the positive results you are going to achieve make sure that the schools have room to back up students who have to go through the high school system longer than is expected. They must have room for this class to be supported, which makes these students more likely to receive a suitable service and to be able to conduct their studies as they please. I wanted to bring this man into the discussion and ask him the highest. Education minister of what these factors will look like, how to deal with the student group in this situation, and whether there are plans to support high school support, with the goal of supporting students in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for this important discussion, especially the perfunctory, okay? paritaprevir Ólína Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir. Not long since I graduated from high school. To this day, I think it's about six years. I was so unhappy to be 18 in 2008 when the collapse struck. Even so, in that nonsenseing kindness that was there before, there were still problems, but there wasn't enough money left. I was in MR, which is now a rather cheap school so widely seen when it comes to comparing with another high school. And this just hasn't made any better. Now we're back in some bullshit good stuff, the longest economy we've seen in a long time, and I don't know what. I don't understand why we just can't fix this. You can come up with some numbers and say that in 2020, we'll have so much on each student and every head. The problem is now. The problem was yesterday. The problem will continue in 20 years if we do not do something now. I'm the highest. A minister of education to take the initiative to meet this high school in a clearer way. Clearly, more is needed. We see an accumulated problem at the colleges year after year; for the past 26 years, as far as I know best. It may be time for us to start investing properly in education people in Iceland. As we're doing this now, it's some kind of thing; we're shortening high school and restricting who gets access to high school. This isn't going to work long enough. If this continues, we'll end up a low-paying country with a low level of education. I'm the highest. Minister of Education to handle this immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u32	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking for this need for this discussion, but I feel that some strange lack of understanding exists in the administrative home on the importance of education and the role of high school management in this regard. It has been reviewed many times, backwards and forwards, here at the Senate Hall and at the Parliamentary Committees, the state of high school during the 2008 financial collapse. During the preceding years, a great change had taken place in their business and prosperity. That is why there was little fat to cut off in business when the crisis struck. Many schools may not make up their current position to renew their computer equipment or furniture and high - tech schools will not be able to renew their equipment. A great deal of tough work has come from the advisers. High school in debt to the state funds won't get money to bridge the gap. This results in poor service to students, unless the schools shop in whites with the expected interest costs. Committees have called the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education together and separately, in which things are promised to be better than they do not. The senior schools have called for solutions, asking for meetings but not getting any answers. About 90% of the high school funding goes to pay. The calculation of collective agreements has been debated and the schools are inclined to lean on that account, end up with an account problem that will not go up unless they have a negative status for school. The problems of high school must be solved, and they must be solved immediately because something else is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u33	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion. It is truly needed. During the last term, not only were high school funds cut into bones but they had entered the marrow and were not taken away. Current level. A minister of education is adding funds to high school, and let us also be aware that Rome was not built in one day. This may be a problem of decades, but it certainly does not seem to be the case with the Supreme One. Minister of Education to work on it. What a pleasure it is to learn that in 2018, the prize number of people in 22% of 2014 will have been corrected! It is said that schools are becoming less flexible. That's not true. From four years of study to three years, the same flexibility exists. There are always some students who will need more time, and there are always some who need more time and that flexibility will remain. I also find it very enjoyable to hear that society is developing a will to improve high school, to place more money in it. The college has not had the same understanding as the 5:10, I would like to say, and health institutions that have really needed it, but it is a pleasure to find that it is a wake - up for us to place more money in high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u34	President. I want to thank you for your need for this discussion. The Theocratic Ministry School is an extremely important place in Icelandic society and in all communities, not only for education but also because it is the scene for game and creation, social life and development, and an enormously important and precious time in the lives of each person. Such levels of education especially require diversity, clarity, and flexibility. School and school level must be ready to face the need for diverse systems, a multicultural system that is active, which is stimulating to people of all kinds throughout the country. Sadly, what has happened in this category during the season has been the other way. The highest effort. In general, the Ministry of Education has been centered on central management, on the increase in self - esteem. The reduction of high school, totally without hearing from different voices, was like the University of Reykjavík, which was totally ignored in this process. V.E.G. A minister closed high school before 25 years of age and older and caused a whole new problem in Icelandic society, where school was closed for this age group. It is an intolerable situation for this school level of uncertainty and need to take a stand against the attacks of its own Minister, who should have ambition and understanding to put the interests of young people ahead of everything. The crisis must be solved immediately, and the problem needs to be resolved permanently.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u35	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the need for this discussion and verbal abuse, okay? Þorvarðardóttir I thank Kjerúlf very much for taking this important matter on the program. Education minister of Illugi Gunnarsson for explaining to the Congress the state of high school from the side of the executives and the cause of the problem. V.E.G. The minister took us back to 2012 and what? Þorvarðardóttir An article quoted by the schoolmaster of the Women's School that I had read at the same time was injelphousdddóttir. I take note of my old Icelandic teacher's words from Iceland's Versailles School. There's a difference between business problems and financial problems, as shown in the highest court case. Minister. I think we must approach the problem there, and at the same time face timely dressbacks in the teacher's collective agreements that are certainly effective. High school is a cornerstone of our education system. We all agree on this, and we all agree to protect and defend the professional work. Because it's the highest. The minister took us back to 2012, saying that I remember exactly how school directors and teachers dealt with the high school cuts. They were united in groups, and teachers taught larger groups than is desirable. This is what we need to correct, and it is accomplished. When there is a payment pocket because the debt side is expanding, it needs to be worked down. [[The president calls.]] I mean, heading for the highest. A minister during this terms adds to the reasons for coping with the problem that we have no choice to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u36	A respectable president. Thank you for calling attention to this important matter that we have discussed at the council and that has been discussed in society. High school standards are very serious. In the financial program, I understand that it is being made up to some extent in high school, but it is also assumed that the reduction of the study will bring more money into high school. It's very important that this happens. I am concerned, though, that the schools in which short - term studies have actually gone through, such as those in Women's School, do not enjoy it to any degree. Here's a good plan of action, and an ambitious focus we can say, and I'm just hoping that whoever takes this office after the election will attack this and work on it because the high school situation as it has been in the past few years is inexhaustible. I don't like it in Iceland. Let's put less money in high school than the average OECD. Not a week goes by that we don't read about any trouble in school, and that's not because waste is going on and schoolmasters simply don't control the project. It's just because it's too close to being given. I want in the last second of the study. The mine must be strengthened and supported. I'm the highest. A minister to the effect of the short time he has left in his office, I urge him to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u37	A respectable president. I thank those who have participated in this discussion. But this was shown in the reply of the highest. A minister we believe is aware of as we have observed that although the minister says that cutting is not being done in the high school system, it is still being done. This cutting is just disguised by staging the algorithm in order to obtain some hidden cuts, e.g. by failing to respect the reality of certain schools and adjust the salary bar. Now the minister's case shows that there is still 7.6% error on the salary bar. She's not even expected to be back in shape until 2018. Teacher's contracts expire in October. How, then, will the Ministry arrange for teachers' collective agreements? Then we know that all of this will affect the school work itself and will serve with the students. You must ask yourself, " Will schools be in a position to fulfill their legal obligation to students? ' What's the high school education minister's ambition on the part of the country? You must ask yourself, " Why, there seems to be no real education course in force. ' All the procedures being announced by the Ministry of Education at this school that others are going to go out to tighten, narrow, and cut down. Fundamental authority is being used to lead adults out of high school. Here is a new student loan bill that is also presented that is hampering, militarized, and narrowing conditions and the potential for study. It's like there's no real education policy in value, a respectable president, and it's tragic when we have enough money to embalm the community and the educational system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u38	A respectable president. I agree with the thanks this has brought to them why. Congress members who have participated in the discussion and would like to say that they are already in the financial program how much money has been decided to enter high school in the years ahead. That number has become public. There is also the possibility that the effect of shorting or leaving a four - year system means that we are going from 20,000 to 16,000 students. The combined effect of this is that we are deciding that the price of 2016 was increased by 900,000 K. In 2012,2013. That will be 1,400,000,900,000. during the course of the 2020/2021 study. This is how to deal with public policy, look longer - this is called down students. [[Fade students.]] The speed that has gone through is changing the system in line with what we know elsewhere, a respectable president. They're not being dismissed from school with this. People are not being meant to come to school at that age. It's not so, Mr. Honorable President, but it's the effect. That's where we see them in the actions of these policies and what it means to each student. That means the amount of money is passing out of 900,000. up to 1,400,000,900,000. What does that mean when it's done? Then there will be another amount of time at school to deal with the challenges, such as investments in equipment, increased education with students, the ability to provide better alternatives where appropriate, etc. What is this about, and what have we done? During this average period, the teacher's pay has increased tremendously. We have already increased the pressure on each student, and we will continue without intervention in the coming years, if this is not to be destroyed. If people just stick to the organization and the plan available and is financed in a financial programme, we will be going up to a total of 1,400,400,000,600,000. each year, we come to the same place, and even we're higher than the average of the northern countries. [[The president calls.]] It's the way to get into a long-term public conference, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u39	A respectable president. In my opinion, the labour agreement, which is being discussed at the council at this time is a environmentally ill disaster and may be one of the worst environmental problems for decades. It will lead to a huge fortune - billions of dollars, at least, to provide meat on foreign consumers. Jón V. Jónmundsson, one of the country's chief advisers on sheep breeding for decades, wrote in the beginning of April an article on the lack of a vision of the future to the contract, including the one listed above.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENTAL AGENTS Further: 5th pars. The contract was one of the amazing examples of the past. It discusses the payment of remuneration... Professor Ólafur Arnalds says of the remuneration on his website: ▪ This methodology has been reported in many parts of the world, including the U.S. In Europe, as a result of this process, it is very often overproduction that is not associated with the need for the manufacture or state of the country used for production. Lottery payments are the opposite of environmental considerations. It is easy to show how this methodology leads to an increase that can become completely out of control, but both experience and scientific research have shown such a link. In my opinion, it is absolutely impossible to accept a contract that leads to an increase in sheep in Iceland. First, there is no market for increase in production. 33◯37% is being exported today with billions of concentrations from the public. Second, the increase is independent of the state of the environment, the economy, and the state of the country. Such methodology is direct environmentally hostile. In my opinion, the deal calls for answers to the following questions: What work and policy work was being done in connection with new agricultural and environmental market agreements? Did analysis of the need for the various communities for sheep breeding support be made? Was there any way in which the treaties of the land varied with the making of the contracts? Did an analysis of where support might be contrary to rural development in which various types of sectors are growing rapidly? On the other hand, what were a number of agricultural reform programs for rights and domestics based on the current regulations for the quality-controlled sheep product? Were all the land reform programs confirmed by State Rent and Food Institutes for rights and indignities, on the other hand? If not, how many did not receive such evidence? And are there any news that can't get a witness in line with the agriculture component of quality management in terms of sheep production? If so, what news is that? I haven't been directly involved in the Senate's discussion of these contracts, but I was allowed to enter as a temp to attend one of the professional conferences. I gave some of the questions I asked here and did not get satisfying answers. I wished to have a discussion about these matters at the highest level. A minister of the environment who couldn't do that, but thank you very much. The prime minister for having a word with me about this matter, for he is well aware of these agreements, was responsible for them in the early stages, and therefore I want this discussion to be taken here. This is an enormous issue, huge interests, and a large amount of money. This is very long, and you must wonder, " Is it not normal for us to discuss such projects and the preparations behind them, especially in view of the approach to elections? ' That's about it. Six months to the election in Iceland. So you also have to wonder, " Is this not a good reason for a contract to be signed by voters before going through the council? ' I think that must be a normal requirement. I think it must be in the best interests of those who present this case and have the conviction to present it to voters. It is not successful to present this matter in a political dispute or in the criticism that this agreement has brought to the public and to stakeholders.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u40	A respectable president. Most of the questions involve only the working conditions of sheep raising, which involve just one of the four contracts mentioned in the Convention. In connection with the work and marketing of the livestock agreements, a signed agreement was signed at the labour station and the Environment Ministry at the Iceland's Farming Association on Climate Industry. There is a wide range of projects in the government's approved application program, and among those who will be used, there is a guide for reduction of agriculture through the cooperation of the government and the national community of Iceland. The guide will take into account a comparable job in the fishing field, the analysis of Iceland's Economic Institute for Economics, comparable work in other sectors, and the experience in other countries. Willing to be more content with terms of treason. A contract to the agricultural university for diagnostic work in this area has been made. Among other things, there are 8th floors. The contract estimates about 30,000,000. every year, i.e. 300,000,000 k. During the contract period, to map the source of the Agency in Iceland and establish a processual study, assessment and monitoring system which will help with management and contribute to sustainable development for the future. Among other things, the studies that have already been conducted in this country by the European Environment Agency, the Geological Institute, and other bodies, are considered, but also the methodology used by Marine Research Institutes, the sustainable objectives of the United Nations and other factors. This project is being developed in cooperation with the Employment Department and innovations as well as the Environment and Resource Ministry. In 2013, a thorough analysis and reevaluation of quality - controlled sheep production was carried out with the publication of a new Regulation. The land transplant has made a special amount of money to follow and, in fact, additional funds so that in itself, that part of the work has gone well. In an analysis of the need for the various communities, a report from the University of the University of Akureyri was given to a seafaring minister in May 2015. There were also other reports, including for the policy of the marketing of Icelandic sheep products as well as the assessment of the Institute for Equal Opportunities on the status of women in sheep farms. The report of the University of Akureyri's Research Centre included a state of intelligence on certain aspects of the industry and key aspects of the work environment. The report also examined how any future support for sheep living would best be made according to the aim of improving sheep farms in scattered areas, including sheep and cattle. Because in some of those settlements there was no other profession, according to the general report. The report refers to the main research carried out on agriculture and rural policy. These include the aim of supporting perimeters, particularly in the number of deserts, would have to identify which area should be given a specific basis or other kind of support. Using the findings of the report, the contract was directed to increase regional support as well as to redefine areas entitled to that support. A building agency has now been assigned to offer suggestions on these factors. In terms of the respect of different agricultural resources, the regulation on quality-controlled sheep production is of detailed land use requirements. Today's sheep product falls under a quality control, and it stands to build even more fully on the knowledge available in this field, such as the project on food of the source products mentioned earlier. The contract also estimates that a larger portion of the payment will run through the quality control system than this time. In other words, it is your goal to increase this role in supporting farmers because of this factor. As to whether the situation was the opposite of support, the contract contributes to a greater variety of employment conditions and to a wide range of national and rural uses. Therefore, no specific analysis was made whether any support could be adversely affected by any other factor. As in many other things, one another does not rule out another and the greater diversity of employment, the better. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to sign off in my final response. It's just a little time to cover so much questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u41	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall for taking this matter for a special discussion at the council. I'm on a job committee where we've been working on the livestock contract and the laws related to it. I think it's best to read the final words from Ólafur Arnalds, a professor at Iceland's Geological College, on his website dirt.net, which says, by permission of the President: ▪ An agreement on the working conditions of sheep breeding is a very controversial process, including among farmers, many of whom have pointed to the evidence listed here. One of the country's greatest experts in sheep raising for many decades wrote an article about the lack of a vision in the future with the making of the contract, including the lack of a contract.: ▪ Embarrassing is being moved from areas with the best land quality to those who are relaxed. And furthermore, pars. The contract was presented as one remarkable ancient ghost. It discusses remuneration (Jón V. Jónmundsson, The Morning of April 6, 2016). Ólafur goes on to say: If it is approved, it is an environmentally relevant catastrophe, perhaps one of the worst environmental problems for decades. Furthermore, it leads to an enormous wealth (millimeters at least) of the way to provide meat in foreign consumers. There will be no reconciliation, leading to negative discussions that damage the production and benefit of farmers living in good pasture countries. It's a big, big word from our expert. Similarly, Sveinn Runólfsson, a former geographer, writes a review of the matter in private and private. That's where he's even involved. Regarding the availability of agri-environment schemes by the Food Organization, the report shows that ten of these will wait and work with them. There's a lot of things in there. There have been concerns about this case on the work of the Committee, both sheep farms and various others who have come to the Committee and discussed the section of the Convention on Climate Management Committee, for example. It is stated that there is no consideration for the commitments that Iceland signed at the Paris climate convention. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall for bringing up this important matter. At the same time, I thank you very much. Minister for his answers. In my short period of time, I would like to focus primarily on the fact that in the case of such a big and important commitment as it is in the long run, it is so important that behind it there is an analysis of these factors, for example, analysis. how it rhymes with climate targets. Hv. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir has asked about the environmental impact of domestic contracts. It shows that not used e.g. Environmental impact assessments and the environmental objectives of agricultural agreements or other established measures have not been evaluated. So you might ask yourself, " Is it not a normal practice for which it is as important and important as this, which certainly has an impact on the climate goals when we consider the emissions of Iceland on greenhouse gases and how it is divided between sectors? ' Not only is agriculture, but it is true of all the areas affected by the climate targets, that it is to form the Ministry's management of such projects, although not being carried out in the sense of a traditional factory, will go to such environmental evaluations as we measure the eco-efficiency, as we assess the climate impacts. It's part of making the administration closer to us so we can achieve our goals. It also caught my attention as the highest. Minister mentioned earlier, i.e. for specific effects on women. Of course, equality should likewise be overruled in this way. I'd like to mention that protection has provided a more precise conclusion, since the sustainable use of vegetation and soil has been specifically discussed, rights, quality control, escape and other factors, and the need for environmental authorities to come on these issues. I think it's very important to the future that we better integrate these policies. [[The president calls.]] The Ministry of Presidency thus plays a key role, for we will not achieve the environmental goals that we set out in the environment if we do not proceed with the right data and the right analysis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u43	V.E.G. President. Of course, the expected market agreement that will be discussed at the council has many aspects. One of the important is the environmental side, i.e. In what way agrienvironment schemes affect the environment. I have to say, I feel that in the contract I am trying to take more into account such factors than perhaps older policy measures in this area indicate that and some aspects of this relationship are being noted more closely. But I can agree with other public speakers that it might be done on a greater scale at the council before this is over. Then there is another issue that will not be under this discussion in the manner in which agricultural agreements are made, in the way the policy in this field is set, how much will be strengthened to be in this sector and what the protection of agriculture is enjoyed from foreign competition. There are other questions that are also important to be asked in this regard. I have to say, as you watch the subject of contracts now it seems to me that awareness of environmental importance is growing. There's emphasis that matters in that relationship. However, more careful discussions about these factors must be made before the matter is settled on the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The speaker for starting this discussion, and it's very important when we consider such large contracts we make with the agriculture. Changes in livestock are natural commitments to the future. Likewise, we have made international commitments to stop climate change. In VI, it's interesting. a section on impact assessments is not addressed to climate and nature protection, but we all know that agriculture is about using the land. It comes as a surprise to me that despite the emphasis here on a agricultural scholarship and a new support with the so - called land payment paid on the entire cultivated land, as the bill on page 5 shows, is under way. 15, with the permission of a president, there is no overall policy on how to be sustainable and to what extent to promote protection. Similarly, much of the land's free passage is noneffective, especially when we are trying to make up the land. Free living may well be out of harmony with today's demand for protection. For example, there is something that I would like to see more clearly in the market agreements. We may need to rethink how we use agriculture, how we cultivate our meat, how we make our milk for environmental effects. You're right. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall says, here is a lack of a complete policy on how we view future agriculture in terms of environmental impacts.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u45	A respectable president. I think it's very important that we discuss these matters. Although I am not an expert on bait, I feel worried when reading e.g. A review of the land healing of the state, which is a experts in this field. If they make comments, I feel that it should be taken seriously. In fact, I have felt that when it comes to overindulging and deforestation from sheep, even groups that assume against environmental protection have not dealt with the problem as should be done. In its review of land healing, which says that it does not in itself take its stand on the bill for discussion, it will merely establish the role towards land healing, saying, under the permission of a president: It is considered, however, that at the end of the contract, in particular the contract on the job conditions of sheep farming, there has been an opportunity for soil healing, and there is no new contribution to sustainable agriculture. However, this could have been done in a way that would have benefited the welfare of farmers. This must be serious. I assume this is going to be a better examination of the Committee. It is not acceptable for us to be using sheep in a rudimentary land, in an area where land healing has, in fact, defined as sensitive areas that cannot handle. There are cases where this is going on, and I know farmers who aren't happy with it, and I encourage them to be involved. I want to thank you for this great discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u46	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the discussion. Today, the various parties work to keep the land well healed. Farming, foresting, healing, and maintenance of plant membranes are being carried out, and many of these are driven by farmers' work, e.g. Farmers'project, forest farmers around the country, along with the quality management of farms and farm society projects. V.E.G. A minister then mentioned the role of farmers in the climate program earlier. Thus, there is a convergence in farming work already and the efforts made in new market agreements at the General Assembly focusing on sustainable land use, forest prayer support, and the research of pits. Inside comes a land culture support and support for cultivated land as quality control is restored. This is defined by the quality of sheep's sheep production as dilation that has been manufactured according to the requirements for a defined manufacturing process, loyalty and protection. The contracts that are discussed are presented to try to improve the development of the country's resources through further research, along with the provision of the state's funds for projects that will turn in.a. ... toaquifers. Therefore, it should not be forgotten that this is stated at the main objective of the contract on the working conditions of sheep sheep raising, where it is specifically addressed by the proprietaries, that it is practiced in accordance with environmental, agriculture and sustainable land use. There may be an even greater need for environmental improvement in the contracts, further motivation for management, and greater attention to strict weights, pressures, and tolerability, but the task is not impossible or impossible. There is now a review of the details of the Environment Ministry legislation, which has been conducted in 1965 by the current legislation. Reimations highlight efforts to promote greater health, to improve land, and to restore ecosystems. The Kingdom's land transplant has been advertised by applications for the restoration of wetlands. So there is a possibility that they can combine the objectives of their legislation with that of new livestock agreements. I think it is best to look to a recent conclusion of a rural and sustainable land use group, and this year the state contributes to nearly 700,000,000 dollars. The tithing for the Kingdom's land healing, as its assignments are varied. [[The president calls.]] So the opportunity is clearly there to allow the environmental issues to outweigh the agreements now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u47	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. I think it's very timely. We're talking about contracts that will cost the State about 13 to 16 billion a year to the next ten years. That's a lot of money, a lot of money. It is only natural that we ask ourselves, " What are we getting out of these contracts, both for society and for how farmers are making money? ' Even so, it is important to discuss the questions at the same time. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall contributes. What demands do we make in these contracts to those who use the land and change it into their activities, as farmers truly do, how does this affect the environment? How does this affect climate? I think we're supposed to do more than celebrate only efforts as it was called by the cause. paritaprevir The Birgir son of an Ármannsson and what. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, that in the contract there is an effort to do this. We are to go further when there are so much money involved and set clear standards when it comes to all the factors mentioned, i.e. determine ahead of time which goals we will meet together, the exact requirements we will set for farmers, what they will result in. If human efforts fail, the contracts can be accepted even on such grounds. All too often, we place too much money on the various projects in this country, tax dollars, and do not place adequate demands on ourselves on the effectiveness criteria associated with them. We can go further on that. I'm not accusing this government of being worse than anyone else in it. I think in general we can do more by setting clear standards and trying to achieve them goals, e.g. through these contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u48	Mr. President. It is important that agriculture develop in good terms with nature and to sustain the sustainable use of the land quality, to protect from the bait of vulnerable areas, and to protect thedeveloped land. The domestic agreement provides regional support, but this does not take into account the state of the country or the land use criteria, which would have been preferred to channel sheep into areas that are evidently better addressed to sheep farms. It could have been watched to link quality control to the manufacturer in some way that it would be self-sustained to work against vegetation and soil destruction. Farmers are, in fact, one of the most powerful guards in the country, and it is in their interest that the use of pastures is sustainable. The production incentives in the market agreements may have negative environmental impacts on land use and climate-based conditions. It is important to contribute to energy exchanges in the rural areas, to increase forestry and grain production and to work with farmers with positive incentives to use the resources of the country. The labour agreement is to contribute to development in the article in a sustainable and eco-friendly way, producers and consumers to benefits. The production of farms in close proximity to consumers is of great importance and support for sustainable development. Carbon footprints, such as they are called, reduce their number by reducing the transport of world farms. I believe that such goals can be achieved by farmers, since they are powerful advocates of nature in the land. But it would certainly have been better in these contracts, you can do better, whether it has anything to do with the livestock contracts or not, because it is the common interest of all the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u49	A respectable president. Few or none are as dependent on the responsible use of nature as are farmers. We are to use the pioneers who live among the farms of this country, thus bringing together the interests of the farms and rural areas of the entire environment. Increased emphasis on organic farming in agriculture here on the country means less use of resources such as fertilisers and antibiotics, which are highly environmentally friendly. Health and food are one of the major factors in the everyday life of all of us, and we can see, for example. how the Icelandic box beats abroad. It does not provide the end of the trend for consumers to want organic, healthy agricultural products produced in Iceland. I can totally see that markets may be created abroad for this product over the next loss and years. consumers also want traceability and production to be done in an untamed country. There is evidence to suggest that the lower levels of carbon footing in the United States are based on the same habitat elsewhere. The use of food on acres is lower here than in most other places, and antibiotic use is also, as previously indicated. Hormones are forbidden and defences are almost unknown. Also, there is no need to reenact the environmentally friendly growth of food in the vicinity of the main market as compared to carrying it by long distances. The maping and studying of the carbon footprints of sheep is now in full swing, and the results of this work can be expected in the autumn. It is good to remember that more than 25 years of age, farmers and land transplants have worked together to make the land whole and some 35,000 acres [35,000 ha] of land. The project seems to have succeeded in remarkable success. So I believe that ahead of us, there are huge opportunities for agriculture in Iceland, where environmental goals are guided, and I am truly encouraging farmers to see. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u50	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion we've been discussing here. In many respects, it has been a very serious matter. In our oldest laws, a thousand years old, there are regulations that could be said to have ensured some sustainable use of pasture in Iceland. Therefore, it is a bit tragic to witness that this is not their point of view. In terms of as large and rich interest as expected in the contracts, we must not only listen to the reviews of our major scientists but also ask for direction from the nation but also make such decisions under their direction, especially when there is a short election. We need to keep in mind that the production of lamb has the highest level of carbon production, and the excess production goes against the environmental policies of the country and the commitments involved in various UN environmental treats. The agreements they look are very encouraging to increase in production. We need to define where support is most important. We need to define the need for production and adapt it to consumption within the country; we need to define where there is no need for such support where there is plenty of other tools. We need to realize that, in many cases, there may be a great barrier to the variety of job roads in rural areas, including urban areas. by preventing property and space from reaching out for other activities, as well as housing, where buying the production rights of food would be much more sensible to use for the future of rural society. These are things that I think we need to take a closer look, and I encourage government officials and representatives to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u51	A respectable president. So I'm starting to agree first that what I didn't get back to, the Food Agency conducts a agriculture policy. There were 50 programs that had to be updated for March 1, 25 for rights and 25 for the upcoming countries and local countries. The haploidination programme can be signed if it has been completed in consultation with the Agency. She sent 40 autographs, but 10 were unregistered, and the land transplant is now delayed to June 15 to win reviews for the remaining two programs. Regarding the question of whether anyone has had any witnesses, the Food Organization cannot provide the answers to the question, since these strategy are still in the debate process, and there is time for June 15th. I have to say, in many ways, I strongly disagree with many of the individual senators'claims on these agreements and believe that upon a closer look at them, people will see how well they deal with the issues raised here, factors that concern people. These changes are the biggest and most important for decades in agricultural contracts and are, in particular, based on sustainable use of land. It is also true that in the last 30 years the number of sheep has decreased by 40% with a related reduction in the burden. The best legislatures in the country, the finest legislatures, are the farmers of the country, especially sheep farmers. Thus, in the case of agricultural reforms, the quality management that is now growing from mild to 35% in support of 56% in this contract, has protected some 300,000 acres [300,000 ha]. In the cooperation work Farmers make the country, there are 640 farmers, and as we have seen here, some 35,000 acres [35,000 ha] have been cultivated. We are taking in ever more tourists who will want to make use of the food we produce here. [[The president calls.]] One of the best efforts to prevent more carbon production is to produce the products where it is consumed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u52	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, for the duration of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. Is there a vote for this proposal made by the president? It's not, and it's approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u53	A respectable president. I appreciate this case, and thank you very much. An committee specifically for covering it well and making very logical changes. On the other hand, I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity and remind of the 12th case, a case proposed by the Pirantics, a pact of independent police surveillance. We strongly believe that there may be a much further way to do so, but this certainly is a step in the right direction. Of course, we hope that this is the most proud step in the right direction, so let us celebrate the case, and, of course, vote with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u54	A respectable president. Because there has been some misunderstanding in the community discussion on this point, Internal Affairs for the State Marshal, I just want to state that as shown in the reviews of the case and in the discussion, it is crucial that the surveillance of the police to which the bill is intended, and certainly also in Porta's proposal for an independent police surveillance, is an external surveillance, not only to be available for any internal check. According to this, as the discussion progresses, the police'internal surveillance is likely to continue. I, however, support and vote by 1st par. The bill will fall away as this case requires a much better review, but it will reiterate that internal Affairs does not require external monitoring.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u55	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a committee study on a bill to legalize a general social apartment from a welfare committee. We made some changes in the case of the 2nd. and then let's take the matter into account, which is natural, when you're working on something so important and then make big changes. There was a problem with how to book the Agency's budget, and it came from a welfare committee asking that the Department of Health, the Union of Iceland, the city of Reykjavík and the National Association of Iceland would cross the case together, and that all the members of this team have a great interest in the case. ASI intends to build up a lot of this house, this was part of the collective agreements, and the rurals and the government are to provide the laid-offs. These people responded greatly to the request of a welfare committee, but they found something and eventually found a conclusion that everyone could accept. These people were introduced to the committee, as well as to a KPMG representative for our community's accounting rules, with the suggestions we had wished for them to shape for us. Although we have not done all of this, we followed many suggestions. Similarly, the committee makes minor adjustments to correct the situation. The bill's headline will be changed, and it will return to its original promise, a general apartment, that the wishes of the European Union of Iceland, who strongly suggested that this be changed. A majority of the committees feel that it is normal to deal with this, but there is one priority on the committee since then. paritaprevir Ólína Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir. It was then discussed the rent level, for the National Association of Iceland expressed a lot of concern that we had taken out a so - called prisoner exchange laid down in the bill. We heard the Common Union's viewpoint, and we put in this provision for division, and those who take advantage of this department exchange will be paid according to each department rather than the overall cost of the Agency. It is important that this law is only a warrant, for various tenants who are working today and fired without profit try to balance rent between different areas and older and younger apartments in the name of social mixing. Then ASI declared dissatisfaction that if a tenant had been over the income or property limits for more than three years, the stress could be calculated. Iceland's common association was against this. The committee is not in touch with these indications and does not make adjustments, but we conclude that moderate stress has been expected only for a long time to have earned income or possessions over the limit. We suggest a change, regardless of this, that the last three calendar years will be referred to rather than three consecutive years of age to explain the loss of income or tenant property below the limit. Then we come to maybe the biggest case in the bookmaking process. There we have followed a suggestion from our rural communities and the National Association of Iceland, which was concerned that the founding legislation would be on other mortgages, as required in a two-way decision. It would be negligible to their own creditors, who were going to build a rented house that would make it very difficult for them to finance. It had to be the case at 3rd. It's so-called stock money. It is owned by the rural communities, if reimbursement of the stocks is required, the rural communities can attribute it, but it will involve their own financial resources in housing institutions and, in turn, form their own capital in order to obtain a more economic investment. I don't know how to make a good deal of change, Mrs. President, but I'm going to go over them at the end so there'll be no floating here and I'll be there later. We believe that rural and legislators who may also be allowed to develop legislation will be permitted to bring comparable stock and to state that further implementation in Regulation is required. However, the law may have to be adjusted to achieve the objective of the paragraph for these organizations, so we have a provisional law in which we hide ministers preparing suggestions to make adjustments if necessary. Then comes the discussion of the ossuary charge of reimbursement. 5 mg. Section 15. The bill says that reimbursement of stock production should be reimbursed unless the same proportion of the population becomes generally reimbursed and stock made from its stock value. The decision of a reimbursement should be made based on the judgment of an impartial realtor on its expected market price. The Commission makes these changes, thinking that when stock contributions are reimbursed after loans have been paid, not that it is changing the purpose of the community or selling property from it, a real estate evaluation that has been updated in terms of the price of housing development should be considered. Then we'll make some changes in payment at Housekeeping Fund. It was in the original bill, so the budget was to be paid two-thirds of the rent pay so that the loss of the cost of housekeeping would have been paid if we were to be paid if we were to. On a welfare committee, we reduced this to 40% at 2nd. Environment, while the Common Union, Reykjavíkurburg and the Union proposed that the ratio shifted up to 60% to speed up the building of Housing Fund. In turn, society's habitats will be held at Hf. and students' social services protested this change. The Commission agrees that the speed of building a house's budget is desirable, yet it is mostly burdensome to pay 60% of their money in the fund to the owners of general apartments. So we go both spaces and suggest that the share of these payments into the fund be 50% of rentable income over the cost of operating. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with these changes. Under the committee, all the members of a welfare committee write, and as before, it was possible to write. paritaprevir Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þordóðurdóttir under it in advance. Then, Madam President, I would like to recommend a modification proposal to make adjustments. The foundation proposals were on other mortgages behind mortgages, but by turning this into a conditional structure, they are not guaranteed by pledges. Of course, the Union of Icelandic rural society showed us correctly that our rural communities were eager to ensure their interests and in agreements that no legal ban beyond the original loan payment or equivalent to reimbursement rates. We're on it. 1391 with a new commission proposal. We suggest the number 8 j's are withdrawn and that, instead of it, the words are as follows: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. mg put it this way: It is not permitted to mortgage a general apartment to guarantee commitments other than loans originally taken to buy or to build it and to reimburse stocks. However, it is permitted to mortgage the apartment as a guarantee of loans taken to repay the loans of original loans, as a pledge remains unchanged or diminished. - Actually, it's unchanged from the article we're changing, but it comes in addition to: 'We're supporting the development of the building,' shall evangelize the apartment for the ban and that it is only allowed to be used in accordance with the laws and regulations that otherwise apply to strains. Then we'll get another one in 5. An adjustment proposal that reads like this and is new: ▪ After 1st mg. Section 5. Enter a new paragraph, as follows: The ability to establish a ban should be established. 7 mg. Section 16. of approved This is where local interests will be guaranteed, as if the stock budget is to be reinvented, they will be no bets until the loans have been paid and the conditions of stock management must be obtained with a mortgage in the appropriate housing. So I think I overstepped all the major changes the committee made. I would also like to say, Madam President, that it has been particularly fun working on this case. It wasn't always simple, and we didn't always picture how we could finish it. But it also shows that when people are willing to work together and sacrifice less interests for more money, we can build something that is positive and good for an Icelandic community. On this point, there was a parapolitic community, but also with the Ministry, the National Association, Reykjavíkurburg, and the National Association of Iceland. There's a wide rift of solidarities. It is of utmost importance when building a housing system that allows them to develop and sustain their need for housing and to meet the need for housing. It is my hope that this harmony will result in continued activity with the same objective and will actually contribute to the security of the entire population. Finally, I would like to congratulate a minister in a heartfelt way that the matter has come a long way. I also thank her for the careful care she showed when we made major adjustments. We believe we've improved it. The Ministry did all she could to help us make the changes, and I also want to use the opportunity and thank the Ministry of Health for a very good cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u56	V.E.G. President. I want to come up for a moment and take advantage of the opportunity to thank you. The welfare committee and what. Councilmen on the Committee for a lot of work. For fun, I studied the history of the committee and reviewed the meetings that have been held on account of the case. It is good to relate that 28 meetings were held at night. to resolve the matter, a welfare committee. The work of the Committee and solidarity at the right time is said to be quite a factor. The committee concluded that I remind me of 34 adjustments into the 2nd Environment. And it seems to me that the adjustment proposals that came on the 3rd. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, these 15 changes are in a number of teams. All right, everybody. Councilmen of welfare committees have worked together on this matter and, as the chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir, said that more people have visited it. These include the Ministry of Health, ASI, Reykjavíkurburg, and the relationship. They should be greatly thanked for the indications and suggestions they made because of these factors and the help they gave us in their final meters in a very complex work that the Committee had for the treatment between 2 and 3. It is a pleasure to know that already a welfare committee has three of the top four residence plants. Social and housing minister of the Eygló Harðardóttir. I'm going to allow myself to be optimistic and hope that it is very brief to wait for the fourth bill to be delivered from a welfare committee. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Hear, hear, yes. However, the bills that have been handed down by the Committee are the general camp bill, the bill for changes in rents, and the bill for changes in housing law. Well, the housekeeping is still on the committee, but I believe that it is not long before that matter is resolved. The bill we discuss is the tremendous structure of 2,300 rented apartments for individuals and families under certain limits of income and property. It is of utmost importance that this was true of the members of the committee, for it is the only major building point in a housing market since its construction. The system around us is designed to build up around the country. It's nice to relate it to the 3rd. on the matter, when the law is just around the corner, that I hope, that rural areas in many parts of the country and the capital areas have made contact and declared interest in participating in this project. The joyful work was done at the moment. The welfare committee is seen not only in the capital area but also in the country. The country is seen throughout the country making changes that have been noted in previous speeches. Senators. We'll change the law to increase the possibility of all kinds of rural society to share in this great project. I'm not gonna have this much further. Before I do what I say, I'm going to reiterate my thanks to you. Senators on welfare committees for the work on this matter as well as on the other hand, I'd like to thank the Committee members of the Committee's Committee for Health Services, Gunnlaugur Helgason, who has been watching over these matters day and night, it's safe to say. He gets our best thanks for all that work, even though we members of the committee, or whatever. Senators, are fully responsible for all the details presented in these Parliamentaries. It is with great joy and satisfaction that I look forward to this matter, which is part of increasing the security of individuals and families in this country, that people have real options for farm shapes. That's what matters, the sound of security, that people can choose whether they want to be in their own house, in their housing working partner, or from now on, that I hope, at a safer rent market than we know today. Finally, I want to thank you very much. The Minister of Social Affairs for the Eygló Harðardóttir for her large involvement in the case and congratulate her.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u57	A respectable president. Here's a big case we've reached the end of this stretch. I want to say right away that this is important and very important to bring about the changes the bill assumes for the reasons we're all aware of. It has been and is predominantly present, a home - to - house situation especially with young people trapped in a poverty trap and with little choice. They could not afford to buy or rent, and it was long ago that the stage would be a significant step in changing conditions in order to increase the supply of rent houses at an acceptable and reasonable price. Hv. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir, chairman of the welfare committee, has considered the main reasons for what the committee had in view of her work. I must agree with those who have spoken here at both sides. A committee, as well as the secretary of the Committee, appreciate much and unselfish work, as well as the leaders of the Committee, who have worked hard to accomplish this matter. As indicated by a large document of change proposals, the front of the committee, the manager, and others have been very familiar with this project. But thanks to the committee is not my place to stand here. It may be close to the minister, and I suppose she will. I don't have much to add to the points presented. paritaprevir The Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir, president of the Committee, and executive of the Committee opinion, do no disagreement with the points she traced. Still, I want to introduce one point that may be of secondary importance but is in my mind, in part, materially. It's about the warning I'm going to make to the whole committee opinion that's attracting a change in the name of the bill. Originally, this bill was originally a localized bill. The committee expressed the view that, in fact, it was not a general camp, it was based on public tenets. That is why the committee came to that conclusion for 2nd. change the name to a general social apartment. For some reason, the term refers to the group the bill is designed to include, to remind, or to the like. As a result, there was a suggestion to call this social apartment because it was some kind of social resource. That's a big misunderstanding. Social rented apartments are different from social apartments. Social camps simply indicate that the residence form is based on tenures, even if it is legally divorced that the tenure form is to be self-employed. However, it happened before this discussion that the National Association of Iceland made note that the committee was supposed to adopt the term "partnership's office, which referred to a lawsuit for the Committee that the term "social" - ◯ may have some negative meanings that are not worth supporting and may have a negative impact or some judgment on the people who enter this housing system. It is now a matter of fact, why Iceland's Common Association is reluctant to use the term "Living Company', because, of course, if someone should be a surfer and a social assistant in this community, it's the All-American Union of Iceland. Fleeing from concepts because they do not have good enough years is not meant to correct prejudice or to change a negative image. This knew the black people in the United States when they took in the slogan '- 'Beautiful'. There is an old saying, so to speak: Despite its exposure, a Gimbur cannot have pleasure. That is also true in this case. This does not mean altering vows and thinking that they change their attitude. We are also familiar with accounts of the use of terms. Initially, a moron was referred to. Later, mature people were spoken of as retarded people. Then there were always more and more terms. But those terms get a negative year if their attitude is not positive. It's the same with immigrants. They initially spoke of immigrants, so they could not, and they started talking about freshmen. Now that the newcomers have become negative, they again speak of immigrants. Furthermore, social camps are not reference to the group to use this housing system. Rather, it is only reference that the laws take on tenfolding forms that are common living communities. Partners. I pick up this case and call it because I feel that by not agree with the view to allowing it to name what it really is, the welfare committee is taking over to predict language and language usage. That power does not have a welfare committee. If this is to be the norm, what term pleases the welfare committee using the general market container? The committee is on high ground when she takes this authority to serve political matters, wherever they come. In that I make serious remarks. Of course, I won't let it stop me from taking a positive stand on the whole issue, but it doesn't change the fact that I'm really offended when I see the hairs and weird things going on that I can get started when it comes to pleasing stakeholders, unspoken viewpoints, and even social prejudices, chasing them down by changing names on things. I would find it interesting to hear about the person's case here if someone would be interested in discussing this, what words we will then apply to a general apartment as yet the dominant term for the dominant housing plans in Iceland today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u58	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The head of the welfare committee for a very good and thorough review of the changes proposed by the Committee. I also want to agree with those who have spoken before. We agree that what we do with primes is the highest. The secretary of the house is changing the rent market because it is impossible for what it is today. It's very expensive to rent. If there is any safety, tenants will have little security. Three of the four primarys, the bill on rents that were approved earlier, the bill that is now being discussed in general apartments and then a bill on housing, play together, but the objective of everyone is to ensure the safety of tenants on markets, increase rent camps, which is very important, with vast lack of housing in most places in the country, as well as limit the proportion of people to pay rent each month. This was shown in a survey by the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Health. The secretary of the house had me remind you that tenants paid well over half of their rent income, which tells you that they often have little left for other needs. So we have to change, so we're changing, including, and the names listed, because we want consumers, residents, Icelanders, to have a real choice of how they live. Some want to buy houses; others want to rent houses. We have different forms of family life, we have different individuals, and we need to meet people in a place where they are at each other. A rent must be a realistic choice, but it is not what it is now. I have strong hopes that this bill will be approved and will expect nothing else, since there has been a complete solid solidarity with the Committee. As others have said on the committee, we have taken many strokes. We've had to discuss solutions and make a lot of compromises, but we've been as one person in the search for solutions. In between, we have sighed and given up, but we knew that our goals were noble and good and that we wanted to do all we could to reach them. It didn't mean to do anything, and then you get up and take a break, and then you go on, it's just like that. We've come to this place today to be done with two of the top four primes. House secretary, i.e. the bill of housing partnerships, which is a good requisite for the development of many people's choosing, we have provided the earlier bill for rents that include large improvements from their current rent laws, and now we have a discussion of the general camp bill. All I can expect is for us to take care of it from the Council today or tomorrow, hopefully with a full house. That leaves the fourth bill, which is the bill on housing benefits, which is far away. The welfare committee. I have high hopes that the committee will complete it. That bill is, in fact, the smoldering bill we're discussing, i.e. the standardisation bill, as the target of the bill is met, both the bills must pass through, i.e. The goal of raising rent houses, improving housing security, and making rent costs no greater than 20 to 25% of the provisional materials. I would also like to mention that the Committee has exerted itself, with good help from the Ministry of Health. I would like to thank the employees as others have already done, but I would also like to say that the stakeholders who worked with us that the case deserves a lot of gratitude for their contribution. In fact, some came more than once and more than twice to help us get the work done. Men worked hard on reviews of the subject, and many times they had very different interests. Men, like us politicians, were ready to yield for something bigger, something large, a new housing system, increased rent safety. I think it's remarkable. Some of the meetings were difficult, and then people blew a little bit, but then they met together, united, talked down on the results, concluded with the committee, and the committee could continue. It's been great and fun, I have to say, to have had the opportunity to participate in this work. It has been very valuable and surely remarkable, and it will be even more remarkable when the historical situation of having allowed little money to shape new housing systems. I think it's great. I'd like to thank you again on the welfare committee for your cooperation, thank you very much. I'd like to wish for the highest. The secretary of the house to congratulate you, it's all happening. This is a step in the right direction. Our next schedule is at the General Assembly, for not everything and some of these are important links in the improvements we are working on in the housing markets, but more adjustments are being made. We need to revise the financial system, the payment, the how it's done, and the insurance on consumer loans. It is, and as with many other factors, it is a long - distance race. What matters if you want to win is that you never stop, don't give up, because we finally get to the end. We'll have a new job to do, but it's okay, we've got to have something to do. V.E.G. President. I'd like to finally thank you for your cooperation from all the agencies involved in this great work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u59	Madam President. We hope we're getting to the final section of this bill's payment on a general apartment or general social apartment, as it's now called over, and it's well. As you can see, the data from the health committee are relevant to the 3rd. The point was that much work was being done on the committee between 2 and 3rd. and it also sees. localized in a modified document containing 15 digits and a number of subdigits. An authority and others have made quite clear how this is in the pot. In other words, there was a new round of the case in an effort to get involved with relevant participants in this cooperation for changes in Iceland's National Association, the National Association of Iceland, Reykjavík, and, of course, cooperation with the Ministry, etc. The committee, in itself, was well acquainted with the viewpoints involved and had already taken their stand, but they were willing to reconsider matters if they were to achieve a broader solidarity on the subject. Instead, there is a change in such proposals as that we return to our original ideas about the title, i.e. This will be called a general apartment, a conclusion that I can very well live with, and I am really happy in many ways. I did not intend to become an opposer, though, to have social appeal in the title as it was written. Um... I think there are valid reasons for both. There was reasoning from Iceland's Common Association to try to avoid anything that might draw to some separation between those living in this and elsewhere, but this, of course, is a social and social effort in housing. It remains as unchanged despite the change in name as it used to be. Second, I would like to mention the change in accepting permission to share the building blocks in a housing centre. I believe that's a good solution to that matter. We immediately saw that the milestone shift, such as the setting up of the bill at the beginning, did not work out when working partners and various providers who have other viewpoints to care for their activities, such as ensuring an equation between all their members in housing, equal rent, and use a scholarship when building an institution or company to ensure a better advantage over the line, even in new buildings or apartments that have been purchased in expensive areas, etc. But why not make sure that this is the kind of approach, to have the authority to have new housing institutions in their approvals and activities based on a certain milestone or division? The conclusion is that we're going to make it happen. Third, about a very delicate thing that one prominently understood, which, in fact, was the bookmaking of the founding of a state and rural society, with the receiver, a housing agency, or a builder who receives it and is carrying them in their possession in the sense that he received stock contributions that drew up more than 30% of the apartment prices, or building expenses, but should then return them in its due time. They need to be careful how this is done, conservatively, in remunerationally and in accordance with the review and accounting rules on both sides. This, however, was quite difficult for men. As a result of the change in the preparatory phase, the original idea of irreversible stock growth changed to their irreversible and irreversible demands of rural society, and this changed the nature of the situation. In effect, the treatment proposed here is - that of housing institutions, as well as of other sources falling below 2 and 3rd, sections 1 and 2.mg. 10. g., if enabled to import the founding contributions into their books as a condition of own capital or stock, while they live up to the fact that these funds are in their hands and do not carry interest - in their very nature, in contrast with the indiscriminate loans involved here. If, for example, financial institutions get it, they can count it as their property in a certain way, but rather separate, it can form a share in the Agency's personal resources, which is a loan and to be paid later. The difference, of course, is that there is behind most of the Agency and can be lost if things go wrong. This means that when it comes to reimbursement, reimbursement is required, it makes clear to the point that the building of automatons is on its side, and it is beneficial in the case of the rural society to their authority and customs to take on a number of valuables that they have for their work. There is no reason to believe that it is more difficult in this case than it is in many others. As regards the part of the State, it needs less concern, especially in the light of the change in government stock gain directly to Housekeeping Fund. There is a problem, however, that for equality to be cared for, other legislation, such as memberships or other forms of society that have, for example, have chosen to have their housing issues, need to be able to do this in a similar way. It is tried to grasp this by implementing this in Regulation but maximum. A minister also assigned provisional regulations to initiate when preparing for a legal examination of these matters and to suggest that the need for adjustment is needed for equality to be guarded in these areas. I'd like to pause a little at the 11 thrift of the changes, that's the question of how much of the relative rent-relevant earners are going to be set aside for housing funds when the original loans for financing of the apartment and the stock supply have been reimbursed. The bill resolved that this percentage was 2/3 at the start. It felt that a welfare committee was too loud. We wanted to change it so that the host of the house himself could build up a scholarship, but he would not see so much of his rent income later when he canceled his home directly into the Hombles Fund. It is still a well-validated perspective that both sides of the system need to be considered. There is no need to be deeply concerned about those already strong, such as Social Services, students' Social Services and Brauns, the House Fund of the Organization, where men may have a 50%-570 share of their financial resources today. Of course, they are well - equipped and well - equipped to handle this new challenge. I'm worried about the new guys that are coming into the market. As a result, they have to become reasonably well - off financially. It'll happen later if they don't just have to deal with the first 50 years of reimbursement, as well as even 15 years of reimbursement, and then the future will take place where most of their resources, as a result of living within the apartments, would go directly to Housing Fund. After some time, the conclusion is, in effect, to meet in the middle and suggest that this benefit be divided into halves in the future. That is, I think, a fine conclusion that hopefully everyone will be able to enjoy themselves. Change suggested by the welfare committee and then did 2nd over. In my opinion, this case is highly developed, making it more social and urban, and much more likely to reach its goals. Of course, that's what counts. For one thing, the changes have been made so that workers can get into the system and take to work vigorously on these grounds. This is what happens when we are trying to reach out to the goal that rent costs will be no more than 203/425% of the provisions, such as by accepting a warrant for 4% of additional stock initiatives, which are irreversibly strong when it comes to building for the most efficient groups of rural society or academics and desperates. And by taking permission to add 6% plus 4% stock contributions when dealing with situations in communities where they are the most difficult in these areas, where real estate prices are so low that more and less are prevented from building because of the risks involved in building new housing, knowing that the real estate market may be half or 1/3 of the stock market within the period of time when the facility would be sold. I have high hopes for this law. I believe I speak there on behalf of the entire committee. We struggle with it and assume that these sources will be replaced. They're part of the case. They're until now, as I say, meeting views, regional and social, and they are more relevant to making it more realistic for the law's purpose that rent costs become more manageable. It also goes on to tell us that we generally do so, and I believe that there will be more testing, longer loan time, a start at 50 years of borrowed, or a person taking advantage of funding options, so that the reimbursement will come in in 50 years. It is quite remarkable when compared with the original account users of the bill for about 30 years, all too short of this investment, and it means that the first generation of tenants actually pays for it, rather than as long as the loan time is longer, it spreads on more shoulders and is more likely to be two to three generations of people in the apartments with the cost of setting up the mortgage. This is important. I hope, Madam President, that this will be of benefit to us as a help to solve the land's housing problems, which are full and complex, and that this will be the beginning of successful measures that increase housing security, to improve the benefits of the income of the community to the extent it reaches; yes, it is the community that, according to the nature of the situation, is most difficult to split high costs of housing. I must at the end warn that this alone is the big thing that solves all the problems. I beg men to handle such matters with caution, even if elections are at hand. This may be 2,400 apartments in some three to five years, but that is not so difficult. It is only a little more than just to cover a year in the country, if it spreads abroad to some extent, in the context of the overall needs for housing in the country, not much. Of course, you want to back up everything you have in these areas and be happy to put your work and energy into it. I also think, and I'd like to warn a little about it, that everything can be done very well, so that the objective, of these earning groups, can be caught, without the cost of living. But everything that's going to be reduced from what we're looking at today, since these are more than 40 to 50%, is back to work, and that's why you're supporting it. Of the improvements, it can be said: Yes, of course, they are important in this context as well, and they are intended to help meet this rent cost somewhere, but remember that the first new apartments in this system will not be moved until two or three years. The need to improve the quality and support of tenants are facing. However, this could have been done earlier. I'm not just criticizing the current government, so to speak, we would have had to do better with the material in the last term, even though it was difficult to live, since this is probably the group of people who had any least of the attention while all the attention was being paid to moving down the debt of those who still have housing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u60	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. But I can't help over describing my disappointments by changing the name of the bill. We agreed to turn the bill's headline into a general social apartment. We agreed on that after 2nd. During a vote and then a committee between 2 and 3. It turns out that the representatives of the National Association of Iceland are not at all comfortable with their promise, wishing that they will be taken back and referred to as working for a long time as the bill, and it has always been mentioned general apartments. Men of that prayer were not satisfied with this change in the committee. A respectable president. Like what? 5th a.m. Witchest. "Ólína Þorvarðardóttir, spoke here earlier, "I think we're compromising on a case that's kind of silly to me. This is a social campaign for housing. There is no question about it. The objective of the bill is to meet the lowest wage in this country, to make it easier for people to live in a secure home for a long time. I say the same way as what. Kjerúlf YoÞorvarðardóttir yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo. On the other hand, in view of what I've said before, I don't have any reason to be ashamed of it. But, of course, I am content with all the rights to attend a vote on this matter, in view of what I've said before, but of course, the bill will follow on the 3rd bill. in the same way as it was done, and so did I and the members of the Independence Party here at the council. I expect this too will be the changing proposals available. It is worth remembering, as this has shown, that, in place of the previous separation, it is now possible for those who go to the building of such apartments with a foundation made by state and rural society to decide within their union releases to split up and thus exercise a certain authority in the way they look to the rent. There was also a request that those members who began to build according to the arrangement proposed here could document the development of both state and rural society, mainly as property funds in their books and that their rural communities should be able to do the same. Thus, it was found to mention this stock - priced stock. When it came for reimbursement, the funds would be cashed by the release of a bond. I think it's a good solution. It was suggested that if there was no money, if the stock budget was applied as a debt to the housing institutions there, hses, if there were to be a debt in there, the funding of other areas of building could be less than if it was a personal budget. [[Foreground on, Highes.]] I think this was a fair matter, and the committee came to meet it. Also important is the way we are going to build the House's Treasure. It was put in place that the owners of public apartments should pay 2/3 parts rent to pay the aside cost of housekeeping when loans and stock contributions had been reimbursed. The percentage was 40%. It was up to 60%. Comments were made at that time and the ratio was set to 50%. I think this bill, which I allow to call a bill to be a law for a regular community camp until it is changed, is a significant step in making the knots so that those who normally have remembered the least of the means to play the safe haven for long term. That alone is a worthwhile assignment. I want to do what others do and thank my members on a welfare committee for a very efficient job. A well - being committee has shown as large and as large as the housing case. However, the Minister of Social Affairs and Homes as they were and have been submitted, that in spite of differences, political differences over a number of issues that have been involved in this industry, the Commission has been able to talk to her about solutions. She's been cleared up for all her work. It shows us in black at the High Council that at times it is easy to keep the solution in sight rather than the problem. It was a matter of well - being, and so it should be.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u61	A respectable president. I didn't mean to participate in the discussion because I talked to the two of them. Um, but this is a case that has had quite a bit of work done at the council. For me as a member of a welfare committee, it has been a vast school - as shown in the case of the day. paritaprevir Elisu Arnardóttir Arnarddóttir was held 28 meetings, and the work has already been tremendous, apart from what had happened before the hearing came to the committee. It's a bill that's been overworked and done well. It's a little funny that it's the name of the bill that's the main column of debate when it's up to, but to me it doesn't really matter exactly what it's called. I think it's key to achieving the goal of the bill. I am so happy to have been involved in it and to say in my old age that I was part of a system that works. It's my wish, like the rest of us, that it will work, even though I've said this to the 2nd. I hoped that the building system they're putting up would survive the crown, for so far the dollar has been destroyed and destroyed all the housing systems in the country. But that's another story. I think there's a reason to be happy. Hv. Senators who have spoken before have gone through all of this, how the matter has developed. I can agree with anyone who has spoken here that this has been a lot of work and can show what you can do and what you can accomplish when you really work together. It has been done in this matter, as it has been in all other matters. I think it would be a political achievement if all the housing and the bills from the welfare committee could be settled on one opinion. I think there would be a great breakthrough in the history of politics in Iceland. It's a big case, and it's been a big case. Secretary of society and housing. I sincerely congratulate her on the fact that this is getting caught. V.E.G. A minister deserves everything, and these matters have been her heart's. She may have had to face many obstacles along the way, and although I don't know, I wonder if this was not a simple task. But I am so happy that the bill has come to an end and I really hope that we can finish other matters. We're finishing this case. What a joy it would be for us to be able to land all of this and perhaps show the public in the country that we can work together completely! I really like that. I can speak for everyone on this committee, and it's happened. Councilmen looking for solutions. Of course, there were often disagreements, but we always came to a conclusion. It's essential that everyone accepts this. I think that's what's happening today. And as for blessing that name, I don't think it's going to be a key thing in the future. But I wish the highest. Secretary of society and housing, congratulations, and all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u62	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much for the discussion. Thank you very much for your cooperation and all her work in this case. What I'm going to get back is that when we look at the field when it comes to the Icelandic welfare system, watching the social references, watching all the standards we use to measure the results we are achieving in the welfare system, Icelanders are very successful in most areas. We are in many places at the top of our well - being, but as presented recently, we can see in the ratings, such as the Social Progress Index. Access to an economic home has not been in good shape in Iceland. As this government began, she immediately proposed the first summer of a ten - team eulogy proposal, which was a policy of what we were going to do when it came to the state of the domestics in Iceland. The major operation was to go to the penitentiary. Part of it was a decrease in skull and, on the other hand, the special delivery pathway that has been successful. A little lower on this list, it was found that the council commissioned me to appoint a projection of a future housing project. As I pictured it, we were going to establish an arrangement where we were looking for not just some homes, where we were going to create a system where we would never have to go through the corrections of debt again. The project management was organized. She worked hard to cooperate with a group of over 100 agents in the future on housing. As for that work, we had a great deal of good conversation with the labour market partners in connection with the collective agreements this spring, and they concluded that this bill and building 2,300 apartments was being negotiated in the next four years. In the outworking of the situation, good cooperation with the labor movement has been of utmost importance. I'd like to specifically mention the Allied Union and the European Union. They've really worked hard there. Every weekend and evening, almost every sentence you feel has been discussed. Since then, good staff of the Ministry of Health have worked to develop the bills that came to the committee. There the welfare committee and her fine committee secretary took over. We see the results of that work now. I remember doing so well when I was on a welfare committee myself during the last term that I found the welfare committee to be the most enjoyable committee. There they spoke down to their conclusions, even though they disagreed when it came to the matter, they spoke down to their conclusions. I always remember when the World Bank Fund came here and his employees, and they mentioned to me in conversation that one of the things that would have surprised them most about working with Iceland through the challenges such as. During the last term, there was the degree of solidarity in the council and in the community on the welfare system. The people gathered for what it was all about. The importance of well - being was never succeeded, so taken care of. We just fought for a little change, and then we all wanted more money on the system. I am absolutely convinced that housing, housing security, is essential when it comes to society's well - being. Not long ago, all I wrote about was global housing. Then I discussed a very interesting magazine I received from the UN-Habitt, a United Nations housing agency that is working on better urban areas for the future. What I stopped there, because you can often be so preoccupied with your own problems, it was found that the lack of practical housing is not an a specialist phenomenon but a global problem. This is a problem that is increasing with urban development in the world, and this is a problem that is the most affected by the poorest and most vulnerable individuals in every community. Then we're talking about the people with the lowest income. We're talking about women in a more delicate position. We're talking about immigrants, disabled people, sick, young, elderly, and queer people, as they call them. The document presents a lot of words to governments on a global scale and to rural governments where they say, with the permission of a president: A greater proportion of government and rural governments are in trouble meeting the needs of residents for housing. The wealthiest and most vulnerable homes have felt this way, since they have not had the uplift of housing markets and the handling of the government on housing has done them little. Action to increase the supply of housing for women, travelers, refugees, disabled people, and minority groups has done little to this point. Government intervention of housing markets has been minimal, and in many places it has ceased to offer housing, weights, services, and even set clear rules. I think we can say that with the housing policy we have for a great deal and good cooperation with the labor movement, we meet the administrative level, which is the Union's partner, we say, "Yes, but not Iceland." In Iceland, we're gonna have this different. We are going to look after all households, not just some homes. We also say that there is no one way that works for every household. We're not going to shove everyone in the same box. We need to be supportive of each other's homes on their terms. That's exactly what we've been doing. We've been helping people save their homes. We see this in recent numbers. We see that the home's debt has improved. And now we take very big steps with the assistance of the four primary housing plant I've appointed for the Senate on rent. 22% of the country's homes are in the rented market. As noted, this is half of the goal of renting less than 25%, a goal set in our declaration. The other half is the mortgage. We were thinking of a larger group, a common tenet, and that's very important. I'm once again thanking the Committee for a very good cooperation. I'm also going to take this opportunity in my closing words and thank you. Lára Arnardóttir is especially true for all her work in the case. What a joy it has been to work on these issues with urgency! Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u63	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a commission to a bill on clearance to a new Western island. It is good to tell you that since the opening of the country's crew in 2008, there has been a new ferry for reasons I will report. In fact, it was offered a year by the Lord, but because of the financial breakdown, it did not receive the lowest offer in the structure of the ferry. The reason they were to bring a new ferry is simply that the ferry currently acceptable is by no means fit to sail into that harbor. In spite of this, the number of passengers to the island with Herjolf has increased from 130,000 to 300,000 because of these improved transport. It may be a revolution in transportation that has not been understood by people who do not know about it, which means a vastly improved standard of living for those living there. This too is a big change in employment, and especially for tourism. The number of tourists to Iceland is projected to increase to 2,000,000 on the next loss, and despite the fact that there has been a fundamental change in the Western Islands, as we know that regularly arrived in the islands and have done in recent decades, Western eyes still end up missing the tourist, so to speak. It's good to keep that in mind. I thought it was interesting to hear that e.g. In a trial, there will be as many tourists a week as in the West Sea Island during a month. The amount spent in investments in Western tourism is not hundreds of millions but billions. It has a magnificent collection, the islands have changed since there were only a few restaurants in having a good number of people with great quality. This is a promising destination for tourists, whether domestic or foreign. Let us bear in mind that tourism has transformed society into basic and economy, and we are now looking out that if plans are made to be done by tourism more than combined exports of the aluminium and the fishing roads. And that's next year. This bill assumes that the square structure will be launched in the European Economic Area and will then take 18 months. The reason for this now is not simply a matter of the fact that transportation in the Western Islands is good, as in other places in the country. This is not a matter of going anywhere but of having a ship. Of course, it's possible to travel to the islands in a different way. But if we are going to stay on transportation as we would like to have other places in the country, we will never be able to avoid building ships. You can't do that in small amounts, either by building a ship or by not. These issues have been handled with great criticism. That's good. We should rejoice in the criticism and criticism of these and other things. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The legal committee tried to take this into account, i.e. We had all the guests we thought could include in this discussion and know to define the benefits of the project and to see if adequate preparation was available. From that point on, the fact that this matter has been prepared very well is attributed to the committee's opinion. I'm going to let a respected president read some key findings in terms of the benefits of the project and our conclusions of the Committee. It says, a respectable president: ▪ Already there is a process of design that depends on conditions in the landlady, including the For a new ship is more pitting than a Marine. The ferry will cut about eight feet instead of 4.3 meters. This is a key to reducing magic and increasing the number of voyages to the Pacific rather than the Sharkate. Nevertheless, sailing to the village crew will take almost as long as it does with General now. Second: A new ship will be much more efficient in business. Oil costs decline because of more efficient machines, and more and more are expected to travel to land island crews, which take more than two hours less than the village crew. Overall, operating costs may drop by 200 million. K. every year. The current cost of land island crew is also reduced, but there is greater uncertainty about how much it will be. However, it is clear that the cost of immersion should be reduced by at least Fifty million. K. every year. As safety increases, a new ferry becomes a environmental-friendly tycoon with electric motors that take the lead in light engines. There will also be batteries, but they may have a limited load. Electric machines respond more quickly to management and improve the control of the ferry, which in particular increases the safety of the land island docks. In addition, there will be a set of safety regulations that suggest that the cabin is not below the car sink at this time. Even if the one standing here is a chronic land cancerer, you can understand that if we have a ship that can only sail into the harbor at 12 miles an hour, it's a big difference between the new ship that can take everything faster inside. Criticism has invented it. It has been claimed that the new ship is worse off when it comes to sailing in the village, pointing them out, as shown here, that a passenger's space is not below a buggy, but above. Because of the sea sickness, I have often tried to find a place on the ship as low as possible, and it is far more comfortable than being above the surface when it is such as this, but there are safety reasons why it is not. After the EVI accident, the serious accident where a number of people were killed, there were rules that required that the cabin should not be below a car deck. Now, if we compare ourselves with squares in places we want to compare with, in northern Europe, where much of the security requirements involved are not fully met because of this serious accident that I referred to earlier. Forward from the commission: ▪ SERVANT on the Western Islands is getting better. It is estimated that the number of trips will be two per week during the summer period and that the summer period will be extended by one month. The export data refers to a 60 - foot - long [69 m] ferry that can transport 540 passengers. The ferry is about the size of a Marine, but it can take as many as 20 more cars every trip. According to the Commission, preparation has been careful and adequate. Independent members of the Netherlands and Germany have reviewed the road generation's comments, which are mainly about how the new ferry sails into the land island crew in comparison to the specific depth of the waterfront because of sanding. Simulations have been used in both the country and abroad to design the squares most effectively for the land-seas. Then a consulting firm has discussed options for financing and operating a new ferry. A special head of the head of the head of the State Department has been holding on to projects of the preparatory work, and she went to a number of experts and consulted with members involved in the case, such as the town of Westerns and Eimships hf. However, the committee points out that many uncertainties are still bound to some of the points that have been tore. In particular, it is difficult to predict how much water is needed in the country. Now it must be a depth of 70 feet [7 m] for Herlf, while it is estimated to be 10 feet [5 m] for a new ferry. Other factors that the Committee goes to the harbor, such as the possibility of a solid DG rather than the design of the ferry, are not directly related to the bill. Since so many uncertainty factors relate to the cruise of a new voyage to the National Sea of Ireland, the Commission believes that Herlf is not to be sold until experience begins with a new ferry. When people listen to the critics, they focus primarily on the harbor, landland crew. No one knows how to walk the Landing Sea in the coming years and decades, but it is clear that a new ship will be able to use its haven better than its existing ship. I think it would be an unwise choice to give up on the land of America. We must realize that there would be a fundamental change in the livelihood of those living in the Western Islands. Of course, this has to do with all the people of the country, and especially with those visiting because it is a huge difference between whether we are talking about sailing between the land and the island of the Pacific or the Pacific. Let us hope that we will do better with the Landing Islands than we have so far. At the very least, it does not take much optimism to say that there is fairly no doubt that more trips will be made to this port than the ferry that is available today. Many may find this expensive. Of course, there is a lot of money, but it is important to note that there has been a long search for a ferry that would be appropriate in these circumstances to rent. Not only has the traditional authorities done so, but the Council of the West has likewise taken up search. Sadly, there has been no alternative. A respectable president. After taking care of the matter, for that is why. The legal committee did this before we got the case to ourselves because we knew this case would come up here, but my conclusion is that it would be wise to accept this bill. I hope we too are well offered because, as it were, the situation has not been better, so to speak, to invest in it compared to the task conditions of ship construction. That's why it's important to finish it now. There's no doubt that increasing transport to the islands will make the lives of the people of the country better, I'm not talking about any other options for tourists, and I'm especially impressed. þm. Össur's ossuary to visit the Western Islands because I know that he would be received well, being a very popular man. [[- Government funds...]] [[Up front.]] I think these are good last words in this case that are linked to why. A senator like all other Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u64	Madam President. Those who have been watching me over the years are aware that I have always been among those who have always admired me most. paritaprevir Lord Guðlaugur Þór, son of Þórðarson. Many times I have come up here to discuss his speeches, and I have often managed to see in them more material than even many of his party brothers and sisters. But I have to say, I have often felt that he was better off than in the talk he gave earlier. At this point, it may be right for us to take this assignment, but there are many more and more reasons than they are. A senator moved. I must say, though, that when the senator welcomed me to the Western Islands, he rose at the height. But then I want it to be very clear that in the Western Islands, I have always felt like a greedy guest, apart from the first time I came to Eyja as a young sailor and the Western ears met me by sending myself into Bjössi in Köm, which struck me on the pier. But as always, it was a good victory. And when this discussion is over, I'm sure we'll have to consider some conclusions. But I strongly doubt that it will be on the basis of their reasoning as reason. A senator moved here to explain clearly that I am always on the Western Islands.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter, and any questions. A senator offered. I will try to answer them as best I can. I just didn't notice anyone. But I think everything is true and true. A senator said. Because here we are talking about a real senator, whom, of course, I've always looked up and thought about, I was hoping to do it. A senator would add to my lack of information, for no one is better qualified to make speeches than worse. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u66	What about the tunnel?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u67	I'm just waiting excitedly for what to do. A senator makes a physical comment to what has been presented here, and I know that next answer is not an answer to a respected president? I like it, of course. It seems like I can talk here for 14 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u68	No, you're right next door. Senator. Hv. A senator is opposed, and likely his time is about to come to an end.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u69	I want 14 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u70	Hv. A senator had a lot to tell, and I really need to hear more about what happened between him and Bjössi in Kum when they met at the harbor. We need to get more information on this. But it would be nice to have a material comment on the subject and the subject, a dignified president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u71	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking a leading storyteller for his history and reviewing this bill for a warrant for the release of a new Western island vector. It is certainly true that Western eyes have strong expectations that new processes can improve their service to the island. It is now either that a shallower ship will not be able to do so. Of course, it is the port of the Land Islands, which is essential not only to human life and employment in the Western Islands but also to the traveling service mentioned earlier. As long as the dock is closed, there will be no ferry. In recent years, this box is designed to sail to the land island crew, which is usually closed 100 days a year. From November to April, there are usually three days per month, with altitude less than one meter, the altitude needed to pursue the depths of the harbor. These three days have not been enough to keep the harbor open because it is such a sand source. That's where the dog lies buried. The fact is, we haven't been able to handle the harbor. The proposals on this bill assume that a newly formed ship will sail 84% of its voyages to the islands. All that experienced sailors, farmers in the Land Islands, and others have said about the ports and the problems humans have found in its design and after its introduction, every detail has been made known. Gos became a member of the Eyjafjörður, who also took a special note, that is clear. But its effect today is little or nothing, that of keeping at least one. It was also stated earlier that no one knows how long the harbor will be open each year. In the budget panels, the representative of the Road Building said that at this point there is no chance that people could handle situations outside the harbor, which are exactly where the problem lies, i.e. beyond the harbor. Therefore, it is important to put money into practice to investigate what to do in order to improve the dock situation so that these new ships can sail as often as far as possible to the harbor, which is, of course, the goal. My opinion is that after studying it in the island and the polls that have been conducted on this subject. A final poll asked over 800 Western ears showing that 87% of them wanted to rebuild the landmark before a new ferry was to be built. Of course, the department means it like anything else. The big problem is the harbor. If the new ferry has to sail four or five months in the village, it is clear in spite of what is being said here, i.e. that it will only be 15 minutes longer to sail to the flounder than the present armada, that new ships will not withstand that old ship of rotation when it comes to sailing between land and island. That's for sure. Experienced sailors say that in such traditional southwest bridges as in Western islands, there will be no two trips a day on a new ship. It will be a long way along the way, and most of the time it will be difficult to overcome. So there is much to be said about this. It has been observed that a shipwriter, a construction engineer, who was on the Generals Building Committee, resigned from the commission, ignored the need for a thorough pause, has to admit that a mistake was made in the design of a landy crew, and cannot be added to it by a new ship. It is very important to keep it in place. It is also important to consider what was stated earlier that the fuel testing done and the model tests by a new ship have shown clearly that the expectations and criteria for building this ship fail. In the construction committee meetings, it says under the permission of a president: THE design of a ship's failure to meet its SÁG is suggested by an unscrupulous search of a person who has not come to the design in any way. It has certain assurances for the working group. In other words, he wanted the design to be revised because the ship did not meet its expectations. Then there are the members predicting that this ship will be five to 15 minutes longer, sailing to the Cove, and now it will walk only 14.5 miles in the best of circumstances. It is important, therefore, that our research has already begun in the land - to - sea situation and that new bodies, other than the road structure, have been designed and rejected by a great deal of criticism by government officials and sailors in the Western Islands. At a meeting with the Minister of the Interior of the past winter, representatives of the Captains who have sailed to thepheil from the time the ship set sail for the land island. They've sailed there more than a thousand trips. I want, by permission of the President, to read a book they submitted at that meeting: We believe that the process of design is now completed only to a minor extent. It is not easy for the ships to travel in the South Sea, and it can be expected that the removal of the zeppelins during the winter months will increase with its appearance. It is important, therefore, that our priorities in review of all possible adjustments to the port so that the loss and safety of sailors will be better assured on this voyage. This is what the captains, who have sailed from 2010, say all the voyages to the Landing Islands, Western captains, experienced sailors. There's now one of them in our group here. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson. They have all said that during the month of sanding, there will be great trouble for the new ferry to take place at the dock. It has been found that in the fall of the first bridges, only about two meters [two meters] at the waterfront, as it was for months in the winter, and it doesn't matter how many squares a person makes, even if it cuts only three feet [2.8 m]. When the waterfront's in two meters, no one goes in. I think we, a respectable president, need to focus on securing a good port in the country, finding out how much we can use that port every year, and then building a ship that is useful according to it, because in the original strategy of the harbor, it was assumed to build a new and smaller ferry. At that time, it had not been assumed that the harbor would be closed for 5 to 6 months a year. It has now been revealed, and today, there is a new process that has the same size of a war Herjólfur, some 69 meters [69 m], and has even been criticized for being too small compared to the moving ahead. I can easily understand my dear friends in the Western Islands being impatient about not getting a new ferry. Actually, I think they realize we need to fix the dock. This, of course, needs to be a conversation and a cooperation project. I miss that no one, neither the Road Building nor the Ministry, has requested that there be more money to study the sealing of the land island to ensure that this new investment, which will be expected to be approved here tomorrow, can become the new Western ears to sail at least 11 months a year on the land island. Sadly, though, the present situation has little or no chance of doing so. Even the best ships that come from Belgium and the deeps of the country cannot cope with the waves. Those who have worked there have said that they have never met someone like them and that they are on the south coast, since the sea is out three ways to the harbor, east, south, and west, and often a great daring dance in the sea. And there is little that humans can do at the best of times. It has also been found that the studies performed before the port was completely incomplete. They had not examined how the southwest and the southwest side of the harbor would appear, in fact, did not have the circumstances to do so, and we continue to carry that cup. I'd also like to step up just what is stated in a report on public financial matters in 2017/2021, where it says that there is no fixed pumping mechanism to install the harbor. Of course, it is important that you think of ways and look beyond the box to solve the problem of the harbor. It has often been so that after the harbor has been closed as much as possible, and there has been a feeling of intolerance in the Western Islands that representatives of the Road Islands have brought some dolls like a fixed pumping mechanism or a remote access device or another such device to hold the harbor open. This figure assumes that about 6 billion will be placed in a new vessel, a new ferry, with about another billion in a fixed pump system. It should be noted that such a pump system has not been effective elsewhere. There are no studies to determine whether such equipment can work in the land of the country. So we have to do research again, and again research to make new processes useful. Admittedly, it is now 25 years old, too old, and it was not designed specifically for that harbor, and it requires more depth. But one must not forget that for water to deepen, there must be a considerable depth of water for the deeper waterships and a much deeper depth than a new ocean must be used to form. So these are things that we all need to examine together. When I have discussed these matters, I often wonder and wonder: " How good it would be if I were just wrong! This would just be all wrong. For it is not easy for me to stand here and say those words as a Western eye. But my conscience commands me that this be the situation. I believe a lot of experienced men, sailors in the Western Islands, who have told us about this. I'd like to talk to you at the end of my talk about General's business. In recent years, all of us have heard that Western ears have requested that it cost as much, i.e. It is very expensive, however, to travel to the Pacific and the Western Islands of the Village, but it is expensive to travel to the Pacific. There has been no money, and several reasons have been mentioned. As far as we can get, me and the numbers of the Westmen's eyes were involved, we've been able to collect information on General Wolf's operation. Clearly, the Eimship Society does not give up numbers from the ship's account, despite the fact that 718 million are going to run the ship, to the company, we cannot get rancourage numbers, or information about the cost of the ship's elimination. The figures I have and have sent Eimship and not received comments are estimated to be largely, but we go very close to all things. That's how we figure 307 you're doing. The passengers are leaving with the ship, which is 107 of you. senior citizens and children within 12 years of age who get free by ship. [[What about older citizens?]] No, the children, they get free. [[And older citizens?]] No, they pay half the fee as due. In 2015, I assume that income has been relatively 1,4 billion. Because of this, 451 million earners of cargo sales, about 170 million are from trucks and containers, and these are carefully estimated numbers. We assume that the pay cost for the ship is about 360 million, and the oil has 307 million. These numbers are pretty clear. We have 60 million ports, electricity, and water, and other costs, such as regular maintenance, scraping, insurance, and other costs of 165 million. They're all big numbers in this ship's operations. In our guessable, unconfirmed numbers, the ship's operation is over a billion. There are still over 307 million who are contributed to another expense or to the developer. In other words, if well - thought - out, it can be said to be the closest sustainable. I think that with a better port, it'll be easy to self-sustaining General. Based on the figures presented here, it takes between 80 and 90 million to have the same fare in the landports and the village. Despite recent increases that have been moderate in recent years, it is clear that in this account, there is much room to reduce costs, transport costs and transport costs, such as if the Western eye buys a sofa in Reykjavík, and the sofa costs 70 hours. That's a $100 bill. Call me when he's in Eyjana. [[Take it up: Pigsy.]] If it's true, it's pork. I say, it is important for us at this time when the council is going to decide to build a new ship that will be taken down to these figures, they will be obtained on a crown how this business works and profit will be returned to the Western Islands, to those who travel with the ship, and/or to pay off a new ship. Pay a new ship. For truly, as was shown in the matter of the day. The manager, if the ferry sails all year to the island, they come to 4 you. individuals, tourists who are going to have a trip every Sunday for the whole winter, we'll probably be in the island too. And then these numbers change a lot. So we have a job to do, my friends, to look into these business issues and how to improve transportation to the Western Islands. At the end of the day, that's what it's all about. Surely we will be criticized for speaking the truth of this matter. That's just the way it is when you have to go through the current. But when your heart offers you it will be so good to vow, and we go to the summer night with the hope that a new ferry will, of course, be better than I'm saying here. It is truly my hope that I am wrong about all of this. But that warning is vital to all of us. We need to listen to the Captain's voices, listen to the voices of experience that have warned us about how to deal in the country, in and out of the harbor, and that we will not achieve any success unless we contribute to improving the access to the harbor for safety to the sailors and the islanders who need to be on transportation, for the island people, for the careers, and for the tourism. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u72	A respectable president. Just because of what you're talking about. A senator, so that no one thinks he has been ignored that warning. The board of budgets, the committee's opinion, shows that we were particularly concerned with the fact that the ferry will cut a half of three feet [ 2.8 m] instead of three feet [ 4.3 m]. It's a big deal, as it turned out. A senator, on the foundation, makes it likely that sailing into the islands will be more successful. In the same way, it is not as 2008, for the nature of a case has been improved in shipmaking, including the design of ships. increased security requirements. Similarly, technology has moved ahead, and it would be unwise if we were not to take it into account. I specifically asked about it because I felt that there was no independent person involved in this. Independents came to take out this design and these factors. There are only two countries here, but there were three of them. In the end, we need to make a decision, and it's about whether or not we're going to use Landing. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that everyone knows the story of the Landing. All we need to do is make the decision to say, " We're not going to use it anymore,'because we can't invite the inhabitants of this country to see that their main attractions meet no security requirements. Sadly, either you build a ferry or you don't. If we could build one-tenth of the ferry and make the other someday, it would be okay, but this is an island, and there it must be transportation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. An agent for the inquiry. As a matter of fact, I'd like to say that I don't have a hyperbole for the design on this ship. On the other hand, it is not in any part of the world that any nation would think of building a new ferry of 200 feet [70 m] that walks 14.5 miles [3.5 km]. Like I said to the highest. Well, Minister of Education out there is like putting up the old black scrawl tables in the classrooms, so I'm just gonna mention it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u74	They worked.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u75	They worked. I also think the land island will do it. We need to have faith in it. We should not give up sailing there, but we need to make more research to make sure that the harbor is open for a longer year. Many people, known business partners and contractors, including The manager of the harbor, Dofri Eysteinsson, has said that it must be extended to the east side to find shelter from the east. Of course, there will be sand gathering, but it will take years and decades, and we will figure it out. Once such a garden is placed to the bottom, the sand will likely look there. There are many ways. When ideas come from players in the country, they just don't listen. There is a great lack of faith in the intelligence that exists in the normal Icelanders, who have solved the situation so far and is the company of South Africa, such as. It's famous for having stuck in the parts it's taken. We need to listen carefully to such ones when they advise us on how we should improve our harbor because I am absolutely on the arrival of the Landing Harbor. We need faith in her, but we need to help her. It took 40 years to build a harbor in the village. [[The president calls.]] We can do that in less than a short time in the Landsea if we start researching it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u76	A respectable president. Hv. The legal committee, of course, received all, not all of them, but those who have been most critical of this operation, to the Committee. [[Dora Eysteinsson?]] We listened to that party. Based on the information I have - as I've described before, I'm a chronic land cancerer and no expert when it comes to these factors - it's the reason not to sail faster than it really shows that they feel terrible on board. [[The point is, are you also...?]] A passenger in the ocean cannot travel very rapidly. I don't quite understand the criticism of the Navy. The big thing is it must still be, and why. A senator must agree, a huge difference between sailing into landports on one side of 12 miles [12 km] and the speed at which the captain wants to sail. Of course, we need to investigate a land island that hasn't walked along as planned. It's totally clear. But we have to make a decision, and I don't think there's any magic solution, considering that all these experts have been listened to. But we have to decide whether we're going to take one of the largest places in the country where there is a population of people and an enormous amount of employment, including the U.S. Tourism, and telling this part of the country that it will just be left out because we are going to take a closer look at these things. This ferry has been examined for ten years. The design has been linked to someone else. This was confirmed by the Committee's review. It is not that independent parties did not come to do so. I can do it better and I'll get it better if it's fresh in the discussion below.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. The manager of these queries and the notice that new processes will never save the dock's problems. They always stay behind. We're left with the waterfront's problem. We see it now, it's never been cleared and pumped as much as it's been in spring. The pumping took a lot of money. There has never been such a good position to sail in the landlands as it is now. The general captains are thrilled, they have never had so much water under the ship in the harbor. That's extremely important. No one's talking about taking some of the Western eyes or people in the island by discussing these matters in this way. We are primarily talking about the importance of researching. Now, it is fundamental to put money into research on how to fix the harbor. It is clear that a newjķld will take a long time to sail back and forth at the Coyote crew in the gladiators. There won't be any pleasant travel, it's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u78	They've never been.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u79	No, and it may never have been. Even though I'm not captain, boy. A senator who comes below might solve it, I know that the ship will never sail at a speed of 12 miles into this harbor because it is so short. One of the problems of the currently in use Armyol is that his ability to control is not so great that he can be sailed quietly into the harbor. A new ferry is equipped with some of the most sophisticated control tools available, there is no question, and a new ferry has tremendous control skills but also with sensitive equipment that can withstand sand and is always the lowest point on this most shallow ship. Of course, there are some weaknesses, but we are guided by the added transportation to the island and the courage to talk about the things we have to do. [[The president calls.]] We have to make some money studying the harbor so that the new ferry we're about to build is now able to sail to the land island.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u80	A respectable president. This is where we'll discuss a bill to legalize clearance for a new Western bistro, which is, in fact, a transport policy to the Western Islands. I have to admit that I have been among skeptics of building on this ship, and I have not kept it secret, and I am among many of the West Coast residents, mostly sailors and those who know the best conditions on the south coast. I'm a member of a budget board and I'm writing on the Committee that's being discussed and I have to admit that when the committee's opinion was presented, I was going to agree with it in advance, thinking that my members of the budget were not one of the ones that I and my friends in the Western Islands were going to question the quality of this process. It was my job to not sell an old warlock, that there would be many uncertainty about the new ship and its sailing to the land crew that it would be nothing more than to have the old ship to spare. If you know, my associates were just as confident that the ship would do it. So I have to be glad that they agreed to put this into a list that will likely strengthen the fact that there will be any backups, I don't believe otherwise, there'll be plan B, if anything comes up. Let us not be deceptive. The situation is that we cannot rely on this new ferry over the hardest winter months. Then it is estimated that the Western Islands will be virtually out of contact for some day. After considering this further, I believe that there are many people with uncertainty, both deepened in the land island crew and then those delicate equipment in the ship. It's a particular test project. There is a more efficient business going out, and it may well be, there is going into this propeller, which is, of course, much better to manage the ship, but in the same way, there is a higher risk of something happening. Those of you know that such equipment is used by ships serving the oil industry, and it is also available to insurance companies. That's what I'm told by guys who know until the failure rate for this equipment is very high. The ships equipped with this equipment serve the oil industry in the ocean, where there is depth and much damage. Therefore, you ask yourself, " What happens when this equipment is used in the landy areas where the depth is relatively small and large? ' Well, then I'm pretty afraid there's going to be some little spare time. Let's hope it's just a minor repair. In this regard, I wonder that if there's any bugs in this equipment, then I'll probably have to pick up the ship. We're always talking about a few days away. If we're talking about road transport to the Western Islands on a lifetime basis, we'll have to make sure that goods don't fall to the island for a few days at a time. All of us know that especially in the fishing road, the business has a high level of security. They're moving fish to shore, they're taking fish on flight, so we can't invite Western ears to be missed for days. As I said, the locals, those who know well on the south coast, have pointed to many defects in the construction of the landports and warned of the seriousness and really uncertainness of that matter, but they have not been heard. I'd also like to mention that the Western Township government has been very strict in its view of the construction of this process, and it puts us politicians in the position that it is difficult to ignore that opinion altogether. But there has also been a clear wish from the Western Township that they do not want private business on the ferry. That is why I became embarrassed that there was a possibility, and it would only be in the hands of the Roadmaker to decide which way to go. But anyway, private business or not private business, it may not be my main concern. It's that delicate equipment. The bill says it's a lot of savings, it's cheaper to fire the ship, but I'm afraid that the savings will be quickly destroyed if there's a massive failure rate on the ship's equipment. I don't know. I don't know. I assume that there may be a possibility that the screwr could be switched onto a fleet so that backup equipment will almost be available. It may be said that this is a military case that is being carried into the river's tray. We've been discussing them for some years, and actually a ten - year story since the design of this dock was to determine whether the problem is the ship or the harbor. Experts at Vega's seafield recognize that it can take years, and it will even never achieve a safe full wound. Whether it is building this ship or something else, we need to make a decision. Actually, I would have thought it was better to get on a slightly bigger ship. I don't think taking less ships, offering Western ears to smaller ships than they have today. As we know, if a ship is narrower and cut down, we're talking about less ships. When I think of its journeys to the Cove. This ship will not be as favorable and will treat passengers as well as the present warlocks. There are many areas of uncertainty, e.g. The sand. Of course, a new national budget does not contain 4.8 billion, with an estimated 6 billion. Then the pumping mechanism will be inside, fixed ton of pump systems in the Landing Islands. There is one uncertainty factor in how he will prove to be and how he will be designed. So there are many things to think about, and there is not just one uncertainty show, but there are others. They are different today, but they were ten years ago when this example was set out. The basis for the high order, the plan for high altitudes, it's not going to work, it's revealed. The transport has become much bigger than in that schedule at the time, so the reasons are just different today. However, the disappointment may still be that although the equipment has been invested in a pump system, there is still a rate of 250 to 300 million in the sand dunes of the land. The 2015 transport program had a total of 387 million, now 2016 of 384 million, 2017 345 million, and 2018 are expected to produce 238 million. It is disappointing to think that only 50 million will be saved in sand. But I hope these plans don't work, and we can save some more, and there's more in the sand pump. It says that there was an attempt to obtain a rented ship. I don't quite know what it is, but it was available to get a rented ship, which I think most people know and remember. What a disappointment that was not attempted! That was with those propellers. Many questions could have been answered by taking it a little slower and testing it. I'm just saying there's a little desperate on this. We have to decide something. There is little new about it today, so we need to make a decision. I can totally agree with that. But I also have a little bit of concern that once this ship has arrived, the expectations will be so high and the demands will be high on these ships. What happens if something comes up? I'm just asking. We hope for the best, but we may have to assume the worst. To sea, there is a rule by order of rescue exercises. I wonder if anything comes up with this ship, how long it will take to save passengers on board. Out on the ocean, things are different. Then there may be time to get to the lifeboats or something like that, but if something comes up in front of a surfer like that, you've got 500 to 1,600 people on board, it's no joke to save them. In such a situation, you don't go to lifeboats. Then the helicopter is almost the only thing that can save. [[The point is, it has to...]] We must be careful that there will not be too much pressure on the captains, and, of course, I trust them to do so, but we must not be pressured on the captains to sail to the islands rather than on the Gang. That's what worries me. I know that if anything comes up, there won't be politicians first on the scene. Then I'm afraid the captains will stand alone and be suspended, as it were. I still agree that we have to make a decision. I've said nothing hidden that I had chosen another way before. I would have chosen to take a bigger ship, even though the days that men reached land island crew would be fewer, but it would help with passengers to the Cove, a safer boat, and a better access to freighting over winter. We need not doubt whether there is any transportation to the land - to - sea voyage. It is an amazing revolution that all numbers are showing and prove, and no one is talking about going back and going for the rest of the year to the village. Sometimes you have to put it in the bag. Then there is nothing more than trying to work it out and making the best of it. I don't think that a new process of 5 billion is a bad option. Of course it'll be a good ship. But I would have chosen to be just a more powerful ship that would take a passenger to the local village, and we could have safer freight transport there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A very clear talk for a member of the body that presented a number of fine information was presented. I have a very simple question. Now in 2016, and why has nothing happened in this case until now? Why is the situation unchanged from 2013 onward? Why do we have the exact same ferry? She hasn't been asked out yet. There's still trouble at the docks. They haven't decided to place more money in research. The situation is exactly the same as when the last government was in power. Why is that? It is one of the questions that I have raised during this proposal. Another question is: Why do people talk about withdrawal and delinquency and weight density and deep down on a board of budgets? How is it that people have gone to the depth, literally, of a matter of transportation to a financial committee? Why is this not the Council of Transport? I have believed this so far that major projects, in fact, all transport projects, would be at the Council's Transport Committee. Why is it that there is not even a request for information from the Transport Committee on this matter? Actually, it should be such that it was on the level of a transport committee, and a financial committee would give a review of the matter to a transport committee. I wondered, because the government I supported during my last term was accused of a lot of lasciviousness and delinquency in this case: how is it that those who did so have the case in exactly the same place as it was three years ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u82	A respectable president. I'm not surprised if they ask why it isn't long before, but as I said in my speech, I understand that men only hesitated. I wasn't here last season. I've warned you about this case, that we were going the right way. They've been investigated. There's been shoveling and pumping sand there for hundreds of millions of dollars every year. Of course, it teaches something. It doesn't need a scientific investigation. Men have experimented, and they have made it clear that not all things are going to work out. I am glad, though, that people went and did not spend 4, 5, 6 billion without trying to figure things out. A financial committee is an invitation. That's the subject of the Committee. This bill is about whether it's right and whether they're supposed to be allowed to go to an invitation. That's what it's all about. A financial committee has tried to find reasons and to go deeper into them before granting permission to publish some 5 billion. Some may be surprised that we should try to take a close look. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u83	A respectable president. There are much larger amounts of money in a transport program. Why is it not on a budget if this is the reason why this issue is there and not on a transport committee? You're right about what you're doing. A senator wasn't here during his last term, but he's been here for three years and the government's been running this case on its own for three years, and nothing's happened. Then there's six months of elections, and then all of a sudden, you're out of your mind. I was assistant to the Ministry of Transport 8 years ago, and there was an invitation. Then there was a collapse, and all plans for making a new ferry had to be postponed. The decision was made to make a new port and a new ferry that fit that port. Of course, it wasn't good enough that they didn't go to the last term and finish the posts. It was highly critical. But it's really lame that those who criticized this all the time and then took over did nothing until they were completely on the last chance of the case, finally sparked some attempt to force it. I think this is something people have to answer for. I don't buy an explanation that this is so different from other transportation projects that it needs to be on a financial committee. This is not in the transport board, nor is it part of a transport committee. I wondered how carefully my decision and decision - making was behind it. I don't quite understand the basis, e.g. they have a budget to tell you that the old ferry needs to be kept. Have you calculated the cost? Knows exactly how much it costs to have two business processes and to keep others on, etc.? I'd like to hear an explanation. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u84	A respectable president. Why are we discussing this on the budget board? On the budget, we'll talk about this doll here, if that's what we're talking about. A senator does not know this, regarding the public financial situation of 20171⁄2021, financial policies, and financial plans. This is exactly where there are these matters: Herpets, a mattress in the land of the country. If we're not supposed to talk about it and go deeper into that, I don't know what to do. [[Up front.]] So this goes against its own, it may well be, I don't know anything about it. All I know is that for example, as we're talking about, up to 5.6 billion, and so we may get 500 million for thelf, I think it's only common sense to keep selling it, so we don't have the Western Islands going for a few days or a few weeks or a god knows what. So I think it's normal for a financial committee to discuss this. Of course, regarding the transport program, there is also a place to live. But this ferry has been designed, and in time it has evolved. She's not like she was originally. She's been getting a lot better. She's longer, I'm fine with that, she's grown bigger than she was originally. So there have been positive things. We've been waiting for a complete design for that ferry. But she is only better than when she was given up on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u85	Mr. President. It is safe to say that this is an interesting discussion, and it is in itself a good thing for humans to raise their doubts, which certainly have appeared on the committee. I agree that this is supposed to be a transportation committee, and I already said so. The vice president of the Committee wanted the committee to present the case. He suggested that, but that did not result. It's a huge case, and it's not just about Eyjana's interests. It also does so as well as a budget and a transportation plan. Just these two things tell us that we're here trying to make a case that hasn't been mentioned in government cops in the past three years, no 6th paragraph. access, at least Could not connect to project. It is that simple, and that may be why it is where it is now. The matter, of course, looks like an election, has such a relaxed attitude in view of the way it is moved and at the time it is moved. The evidence presented here mainly concerns the harbor, the land run, and the situation there. In itself, there was very little discussion about the ship as such, its limitations and advantages. It had entered on the final meters, but first and last considered how the harbor is and has been and what to do with it. The captains, the property, the dock manager, and others who have come to meet us have doubts that have been traced well. I've also heard that men believe that this ship will be no better than old Generals, i.e. is like a ship. I'm not going to say it. I don't have that professional knowledge, but there are many things to think. What I was going to do first and last, it's the financing. I am deeply concerned that we are here with a dirty transport plan that is 3 billion short of a government budget. I'm worried that this will be the end of that plan. It would have to be made clear that this was funded directly from a government fund without any sign of deterioration in the transport program. I think it's very important. I also agree with the warning given here on how this can be a private exercise, i.e. Not government only. I agree with the locals. I think it's wise to have them that way. I feel like they're getting bent, I have to say, because this is where people sign, they say they're on notice. A speaker before me, but he's not registered in this opinion. [[Up front.]] [[He's afraid to.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u86	This was explained in the talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u87	I'm sorry if it's happened. I thought I had read through, but obviously I missed it. However, something special is that those who come out of the district are more concerned than members of the capital area. You could have imagined that those next standing heard the voices of the local people and what they wanted. Sveinn Rúnar Valgeirsson, captain of the Plains, suggests that there will be other routes to the inhabitants of the island. You can ask yourself, " Why is this not done? ' I realize this is a timecap, i.e. that there is an enormous amount of time in the process, but that may not work on its own. I am not convinced that the timetable presented here, held by the committee's data, is no more than many other things, and I am not as convinced as I might be. A vice president of the legal committee gave his talk that all of this would work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u88	You did not listen to the talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u89	Yes, yes, I listened to your speech, my dear. Vice President. As I say, I'm not going to discuss this matter very much. I do not approve of this in the light of what we have received. I may not have dealt with myself in the way I vote on this matter, but, of course, something has to change. I agree with the tourism, she wants some adjustments in service to her. This is an attempt to say that there will be a better service, two trips a week during the summertime, and it will return to Eyja. I'm not questioning it, but although that focus was important, it must always be about the transport of the people of the season. It's not exactly what the backups might be. Of course, there are gaps in man's life, and it may never be different. I hadn't noticed until I saw the commission to keep the old ship. I agree with the question raised earlier: How much? We have, for example. I didn't get a table for us on the budget board at any cost. Are you going to tie him to the dock and make him wait for what's going on? What is the purpose of having the ship and how long and all of it? What is an acceptable time in seeing how the new ship works? We must have at least years and even two because we know that winters vary, the seawaters vary, etc. That's something I haven't felt like an answer to. I hear a little bit of the parties that came to us and were most quite negative, it must be said at the moment, and had strong warnings. Maybe it always will be. I don't know if this path is better than anyone else. I don't feel that I exactly have the answers to that, either. That is why you might try to answer that question and respond to it in the data you have. Although the design of this process has long been developed, other ideas have been wondered, perhaps we would have needed more time to study. I agree that the safety point is very important. A pilot came in on, i.e. that the cars are above, but not below, etc. There's quite a bit more on it, it's not like everything's impossible. First and last, I'm worried that we can't accept this because of the warning words we've been given. Also, I have not found it clear to myself that this does not result in a compromise of the transport program in view of the financial agenda that it costs around 6 billion using the pump system. I can see why. A vice president would be interested to know if he has any ideas for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u90	A respectable president. This speech is quite surprising. First, of course, this has been mentioned in government cops. I'll give you one example, in the last committee party, i.e. Not for the last budget, but before that, this was specifically stated in a committee list more of the legal committees. Hv. A senator knows that. I have never heard anyone say that a new ship is not as good as what was before. We can have all the opinions on the Pacific, but I remind you, it's a safer ship. Now it is forbidden to have a passenger cabin below a vehicle deck. Why? Because there were a great many deaths in Estonia over their precise factors. That means, though, that if you go up higher, you won't feel as good when you're down in the water. It's a lot of environmentalism that you would now expect spokesmans of the left green might have mentioned. On top of that, it's cheaper to business. A respectable president. Time plan. Why is that? Why are we doing this now? Because this situation is at shipyards because of lack of activity, we are likely to be able to get a good offer. Travel services and residents are completely connected. The increase in our professional life in Iceland is a travel service. Western girls are no different from other locations in the country in this regard. Untrusted transport means that humans cannot build tourism in the Western Islands. It's completely hanging out. Hv. A senator claims that all guests were negative. We asked all the critics who had a critical meeting with the Committee. That's how I feel it should be won. I was critical of this. I'm critical of everything. We're supposed to be critical of this. Then we found answers to those questions. The conclusion was that, as indicated in the preceding article, we thought it would be wise to do so in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u91	Mr. President. That's right, I remember this now in the opinion of the greater part two years ago. I apologize for saying that it was never mentioned. The fact that many people died in Estonia may also have a different story, but just then, that the car deck was downstairs, we know that. Surely this is a environmentally friendly ship, I'm not going to reduce it, and it's very pleasant in itself. It refers to the likely opportunity for us to get a good offer. Still, there are doubts that this time, the summer, is the best time for an invitation, but hopefully we get a good offer. Let us hope so. If the bill is to come true, let's hope for the people and the state funds. It is estimated that the overall cost of operating could be reduced and that the cost of impact should be estimated. These are the figures expected, but there's nothing in hand with them, especially the harbor, we know exactly. We got married like a boy. A senator knows a man who's been working on the waterfront and also a lot of abroad who said it wasn't good what it was like and he didn't see it going to be decent in the next few years. It also contained exactly these factors, although I can't technically enter them, such as the depth of the process, etc. Of course, all you can talk about is that the service improves as travel rates increase, certainly, but they improve over the middle of the summer. This means that the worth are more than ideal, but people also want to get between them during winters in a reasonable way. That may be what we have come across with the greatest criticism. I'm not saying that it's all impossible, but there's still doubt. What I mentioned earlier and the senator did not answer was a transport plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u92	A respectable president. Tourism isn't about special worth. The exports of tourism next year become more than a combined income of fishing roads and aluminium plants. The economy is driven by tourism. The expansion of the work is being carried on by tourism. I don't think there's a lot of work to be done around the Western West Seaside, but you can increase them to travel services. It's not just about the summer stuff. Fortunately, travel is over the year. There are 300 of us. a person traveling between the country and the island now, however, there is a great situation for the tourism, and it has been built up a lot. So it's not just the summertime. I mentioned why this particular matter is presented regarding the passenger deck and Estoniu. Of course there are other factors. However, what the committee discussed in terms of security is that there are few ships in northern Europe, squares, which are now equipped in the form of alf. It is a responsibility for the government to continue doing so. There's nothing about Landing Island. We're not talking about it, but it's either a decision to back off or to be with a decent ship to sail between. I'm not ready to make that decision, even though not all plans for the Landing Islands have been left behind, to give up on her now. For plan B. I think it's wise for all the reasons, especially when we don't get more money than we do for the old Navy, to have him there too. I think it's a little strange to put this up in this way. Of course, it's not supposed to have any effect on a transport plan. On the other hand, we need to go over a government budget for a long time, that is, many things to think about. This issue, on its own, turns to whether we should take out a new ship that sails between the Western Islands and the Islands.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u93	Mr. President. We're getting so little for the old General, says 'w'. Senator. There is no room for that. We haven't advertised him for sale, so we don't know anything about it. It's not just for him, it's natural to fire him. Should he be bound to a dock, or should he be on some project? All of this matters. It's a pleasure to hear if there's any. A senator believes that this will not affect transportation. I'm glad to hear it, and I'm going to charge him in the fall when we go to see the Secret Transport Program. I expect it to appear to the greater part of the Committee that it will not, because this case must be happening there now as it was two years ago. Then it is very important to draw the effect on transport plans because I am not the only one who has doubts about it. It will not be done now, which means that you will either try to add to it or cut down on a task according to what is missing. We'll see how this case unfolds. Of course, the committee's opinion shows that there are many uncertainties. There is talk of the mattresses in the Landing Sea and that so many uncertainty factors are linked to the voyage of a new mission to the National Islands that the committees believe that it is not to sell Herlf, they need to see how all of this is going to come out. These uncertainty factors have been attributed here, of course, to our having doubts. We're supposed to have them. This is a huge deal. For another reason, the senator has been expounding funds of the magnitude here on a discussion of some 6 billion. [[The point is: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u94	A respectable president. It'll be late to say that this is the matter of a council that I have the most and best sense of, even though I'm only beginning to understand what words like offhand and deep down and body shape and the like mean. It's a very complicated thing and it seems to each one, but I'm a follower of being built on a new warlock because it's a long time. We have found and received visitors for this matter, and there have been some ideas, such as renting a ferry. They tell me better than ever that it was tried, but it didn't work. It will certainly take time, and it would surely have been better if we had been on the move earlier, since the Western Islands and residents suffer before that while nothing happens. I'm not gonna pretend to be an expert on this. I relied on those who have happened to the committee and spoke for it. What I want to wood here, though, is my concern about financing, what it should be like, because it's not a transport plan. So it must be in the budget for 2017 that the cost will be expected in some way next year. Of course, it needs to be offered out, and this is a process, so it needs to be started sooner than later. I'm not on the committee. It's simply because I couldn't get to the meeting, never miss it. I'm not against the case at all, then I would have had my own committee opinion. So I come up to support the continuation and approval of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u95	A respectable president. I want to thank you for coming back to the council and thank you. The legal committee is very much concerned with the hard work they've been doing in this case. I will not extend my discussion by reviewing the evidence. I believe the committee producer, what. paritaprevir Gulliful Þór Þórðarson, has done so well, and agrees with what was presented in his case. What I want to make a difference is that we're talking about a legal case. This is a transport process that has long been decided on. In fact, once before, an invitation has been launched to build a new ship instead of thepheil, so the decision was made long ago by the Allied Council of Iceland. Now that's what we're getting the legal warrant, that's what it's all about. I'd like to point out that when we discuss individual roads or services, we are not talking about which plastic bars are meant or how they are marked. I feel that the debate here has developed into a technical issue that is being implemented by the European Commission. We are going to make a decision to complete the already started transport, and that is what we should do. I'd also like to point out that the currentpheil is 26 years old. On average, squares between Western and Western countries have been replaced every 15 years. We are investing in a new safe ship that will improve transportation. I'll say this is the cheapest research for the land crew ever made. Whether most expect it or not, I'll say it, whatever and how large the changes in the land island need to be on when we get the experience on this ship. There will be no cost of getting this ferry. That's very important to me. If we make another decision to finish the dock first, we are talking about many years of delay in the Western Islands. It doesn't make sense. There we can get better transportation for the lowest amount of money and before the shortest time, although we are not sure that it will be 100%. I'm happy for what's presented in a committee party. The legislature board suggests that the current Marshals will not be sold. I believe that the cost of having it on and having it on as a backup, if anything comes up, will not be great in view of the fact that it is very expensive to rent another ship when the new ship has to go to a slang or some kind of view that all the squares of the world need to go on. Often the discussion about this matter is about the time it takes for Western students to get to Reykjavík. I'd like to point out that 80% of tourists coming to Iceland are going to Southland. It's the people who use the land island and have to make use of it, that's why it's important. Then I'd like to say in the end that there are many other issues of transportation to the Western Islands to form the way the pay is done, whether it's the same price to the Shrine as to the Pacific, how the waterfront will be secured. There are some things that need to be followed by this decision. I now declare myself ready to deal with it on an environment and transport committee as soon as I have an opportunity, so we will follow through on that matter. I suggest that this case be agreed here and hopefully took a big step in transport to the Western Islands.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u96	A respectable president. I'll discuss a bill to legalize for a new Western island. As mentioned in the discussion, this case was directed to the budgetary committee as it should be because it is a bill for a license to be passed on to a new Western island. In fact, it's about financing on the construction of a new ferry to the Western Islands. However, it has to be said as it is that when these financial criteria are established, they have been introduced into the transport network; it has been mentioned here in the discussion that men wanted to see the case referred to a environmental and transport committee. I agree with that. The Environment and Transport Committee requested that the case be informed. The Agency's team agreed on the process, but I understand that due to lack of time, it was not possible, that is the information I am given, and even has not been given enough time to answer this Environment and Transport Committee issue. Hence, there is good reason to go very closely from here on into this matter and to discuss it on the basis of transportation. So I've thought to do it here, but I'd like to say that once we realized that the matter was taken out, the committee reasoned that this case was the case, in spite of the issues presented by the committee, it would have to be very thorough because, as it happens in the Committee's section of the budget, that there are many uncertaintys in this matter; there is a great uncertainty about much, and I think it is correct that a transport committee, when it comes together in the next autumn, will be very detailed in all the circumstances. Even if I support this whole matter, as I do with all the transport issues around the country, it's our responsibility to explore all possibilities and how to make sure transportation is the best way to the Western Islands. I was one of those who celebrated the great construction of the land - to - be crew at the time, believing in the abundance of transportation. One noted how this affected the local community. As part of this category, we realize that transportation is not just a matter of how people get around, it is also a matter of well - being. Health institutions around the country are expected to be united, and people are expected to have to travel more distances. We also see that there will probably be a high - tech hospital rising at the Ring Road. Although many people, including me, have expressed serious doubts about the right location in that hospital, transport has to be okay. We also need to bear in mind that the city of Reykjavík is headed for an emergency route to Reykjavík, the north/south runway, in 2020, and the entire airport in 2024 without any doubt as to what will be replaced by a major means of transportation. Without the conference's discussion here and making a decision whether it will be realized, it is the firm policy of the city's authorities in Reykjavík that they will leave the airport. That's why I'm on the side of an invitation to a new Western island. The transport process brought to the landport was of utmost importance, and hopefully the way described here will be successful and will increase the squares between land and island. I'm not as worried as my partner. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, who listened carefully to him, knows that he is an experienced sailor who knows such matters tremendously well. I've studied them in other fields, tried to get data, get information, and believe that this is a very effective way. I believe that it is correct, which is listed in the Committee's panel of more part of the legal committee, which identifies some of the benefits of the project. First of all, a new ship will open a shallower vessel than the Avenger Stone, a new ferry will cut out about eight feet [0.8 m] instead of 4.3 feet [ 4.3 m]. It's a key element, to reduce charm and increase the number of missions to the land island crew in place of the Coyote crew. I think it is also true that a new ship will make much more efficient business because oil costs will be reduced because of more efficient machinery, and thus you can expect to have a relative number of trips to the landy crew that will take more than two hours less than the rest of the crew. I'm glad to see that it's the financial and financial assessment that the cost of operating can be dropped by 200 million. K. In a year, it's much less. This is money that could be used for the roads, for building ports, or for flying machines, for maintenance, and for the upkeep of new projects, and for the price of each dollar in this suit. There is still one point of view that I think will be held very well, and it is that the cost of land island crews is reduced, although a financial committee points out that there is still considerable uncertainty as to how much it will be. They appreciate it, though, so that the cost of immersion should be dropped by at least 50 million. K. In a year and in a smaller way. Then there's the aspect we've been discussing on the Environment and Transport Committee, that's security. We have discussed a tremendous number of road safety issues, especially with the growth of tourists. Clearly, more road stress is not just so that roads are made worse and needs more maintenance, the security of those around it too is lacking. In fact, we have spoken extensively about the right and normalness of strengthening the squares and the rest, and we have also put people in the air in internal flights to reduce the pressures on the road system. It says that security will increase, since new processes become environmentally stable tyres with electric motor motors, which will also be batteries, which, in fact, have limited loads. These engines respond faster to controls and improve the control of the ferry, which in particular increases the safety of the land island dock. In addition, there will be a set of safety regulations that suggest that the cabin is not below the car sink at present. It was tore here in a fine talk. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þórðarson's son, God's god, why this is and cites accidents that have occurred in other parts of the world. Thus, services in the Western Islands must be improved. This may now be one of the biggest reasons why it is based on the Western Islands, which is not just to ensure that more tourists come to this beautiful island, but that residents who live there can use better service both for travel and for other purposes. It is expected that the number of trips will increase by two weeks during the summer period, as well as the length of a summer period will be expected to be extended by one month, where the benefits may be profound. This points to a 60 - foot - long [69 m] ferry that can move some 540 passengers. The ferry will be about the size of a Marine, but it can take as many as 20 more cars on every trip that I think can be extremely important, shorter periods, both in the Western Islands and in the Caribbean, i.e. for those who have to get their cars over to the Western Islands. It says that the committee believes that preparation was good and acceptable. It seems to me that the preparations for this were similar to those of the day when it was decided to engage in the development of a critical storm march, much like this project, will prove to be an enormous improvement in the North country. Reports show that the area is doing well despite setbacks. We live in such a country that the weather can be grueling and constantly change over time, and our country is deepening, that is, our strength, but it may also be difficult for us to perform, as did the land of the land when people have not seen how the weather and other factors have affected the project. But it seems to me that there was a good job here. Here, too, the cost of a government fund is expected to be, at the end of the day, not great. It is the same with the Vádala-leaf tunnel, but we have recently seen that the number of passengers in these transport workers has proved to be good at what was foretold by man. A tour of the Jerusalem tunnel has been referred to as an example. There was a debate between Olafurs, the Fear of the Earth and the Sleazeland. It was critical, and many said that the weight of traffic there would never be the one the Roadmaker said it could be. So much higher, positive, the community has been fortified, linked together, made up of communities, and all of these are extremely positive. I think it's nice to see a Vállina tunnel in a similar light, where I think people can expect traffic to be considerably higher than the most careful plans ever made. So the outcome should be considerably better than the pessimist who dare hope. I'm convinced that it will be the case with the land dwellers that this preparation, which has been careful and adequate, proves to be a good basis for the project that it will ensure good transport to the Western Islands for the future. The independent people in the Netherlands and Germany were given to review the road generation's comments, which are primarily about how the new ferry enters the Lands Harbor, relative to the specific depth of the waterfront because of sanding. There, simulations have been used, both here and abroad, in order to design the squares as best for the land island. Then a consulting firm has discussed options for financing and operating a new ferry. A special head of construction committee by the State Department has held up to-dos of the pre-work, and this construction committee has consulted many experts and has consulted with members involved in the case, such as the town of Westerns and Eimships hf. In fact, there is one point I've wondered about, and I realize that the budget didn't have enough time to review that point, but honestly, the committee says that since so many uncertainty factors are connected to the voyage of a new voyage to the landland crew, the Committee doesn't believe that it should be sold to Herlf until it is established. This is exactly what the Environment and Transport Committee will consider when it is considered, hopefully the next fall if we have time. I suppose the Committee will try to find that time and find all these factors because there is a lot of uncertainty about how long it will take to become such a new level of experience that people can be absolutely 100% sure that it is the very best, the best. Of course, we don't want a guarantee in the government budget to leave a hole like this about selling to alf who's supposed to make money for a government fund. I also love this phrase, which comes in the opinion of the Committee, especially in which the Slipper of Akureyri, theegural plant of Akureyri, has been extremely successful and very progressive in the past few years, i.e. that the project can be added to these shipping stations, so there should be good opportunities for the favorable agreements on a new process. There are people in Akureyri who are very excited about innovation, but new ships have not been built for a long time, and I firmly believe that this word is being directed to the Council and the European Commission for a new trade in Iceland that makes both profit and income. As I said here, I was going to go over this very carefully. In fact, I'm very brief about tore up a point of view. I notice that I have a lot of time left to discuss this matter, but I'm not going to extend this speech any further. I see that here are members of Congress who are anxious and who want to get to 2nd. ... so I'm going to give a considerable amount of time for cooperation and reconciliation, but I'm glad that the Western Islands have arrived and are grateful for the discussion that has taken place here today. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u97	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. I'm just gonna thank you. Parliamentaries for having participated in it. I felt that the discussion was perplexing, and a lot of good things were done. I would like to reiterate what has previously been said that we were close to it in a way that allowed all the critics to enter the committee. All the members who were asked to put themselves in harm's way. A committee came, no matter who they were, especially those who had experience but who did not come from public institutions. That's right, a new ferry won't solve the problems of the land-land crew, that's another case we won't solve here, as it turned out. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. Although I agree with him in that, I ask myself, when he says that it will not be convenient to go on a new ferry. I don't know, Mr. Honorable President, that it's particularly convenient to go on a big break in the old Navy. I think, and speaking for land cancer, it's never comfortable to ride a ship on a boat. A respectable president. We put forth honestly what we feel is uncertain, we can't handle all things. Thank you. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son for an excellent talk, and not going to go to all the features of what he went on to, however, would like to reiterate with the old General that I think it is reasonable enough to hang around with him only. It's not expensive to have a business on a ship that's at the docks. We do not know the nature of a case as perfectly as in other matters we agree here on how evolution will be developed. But finally, I want to say, I feel like an parish in the Western Islands when it comes to tourism. I think 300 of you. The passengers aren't much. I hope we see more people going to this beautiful place in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u98	V.E.G. President. I recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on the bill to correct the change of various tax and tax laws. The committee covered this matter extensively and was contacted by a representative of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, KPMG, Isavia, the Free Service, the State Alcohol and tobacco Trade, the Organization of Industrial Affairs, the Society of Professionals, the Allied Association of Iceland, and the Union of Iceland. The main ingredient of the bill is two things. On the one hand it is suggested that the overall insurance rate will be reduced by 0.5 percentage points from July 1, 2016, which means that the income of the state's budget will be reduced by 3 billion or 6 billion per year from a return to the end of the year. Second, it is suggested that the passive acts of the tax law be removed, which requires that the stocks or investments be converted into a community, should not result in taxic effects. Then, on January 1, 2017, there is a recommendation to abandon married couples and partners to a tax - step tax exchange. It is also suggested that the operator be taken from all doubt about the obligation to submit his annual tax returns, which includes business and balance accounts, as well as the dissociation and explanations. There are adjustments to the values tax laws due to legal separation and possible retrospective action of changes made in the disposition of people's transport from worthwhile supplements tax. It is suggested that tax taxation-shaped toll plates covering beer to strengthen and clear legal ground are added. The bill also suggests that the spending of unfinished capital and financial taxes outside the local tax will be 1st November each month and one day thereafter. It is then suggested that there be a clear understanding of the separation and availability of the post-retail sale. Finally, simple restrictions on free import of tourists, shipmates, and pilots are put in place on alcohol. As mentioned earlier, the committee received many visitors and reviews, which included comments made by the representatives of the government and the Ministry. In view of these facts and the work of the Committee, there are some changes to the bill. First, there is a change in marriage and living together. The majority of the committees came to the same conclusion as he previously did, which appeared in his committee program on the subject on a threshing floor. 2 which was previously handled at the 145th legislation, that there would be no evaporation of a marriage, but the majority of the committees feel that there were no viewpoints or rational support in this regard that change the position of the greater part. The main position of the greater part is the importance of keeping the warrant inside, believing that the views pointed out are not as difficult as the interests of those involved. The committee feels that there will continue to be allowed to transport the unfilled tax ladder of a marriage that reduces the income to the higher income and thus contributes to the level of 3.5. The bill falls down. There are other minor changes that are more technical than material. First of all, there is drinking at tax - free stores. The law has made it so that the State's Alcohol and tobacco trade alone has had the exclusive right to use alcohol, and it has left no doubt that these tax - free stores are also permitted to do so, as it were, to have a posetive arrangement on it, and to suggest a change of arrangement for that purpose. Also, there is a change in the definition of ale, cider, and soda mixtures used in the Committee opinion and the tax-related domain of tourism. I refer to the latter opinion of the greater part in this matter. It should be noted that in the context of a proposal for a change in insurance law, such as 1st. The bill, considers it important for the majority of it to be responsible for the lack of insurance fees not to interfere with budgetary donations or to promote changes in fund distribution policies for the benefit of reformers. Finally, there are two changes to the value law. Fall off 4 mg. ... witha validation of Article 3 and 5. ..................... the reduction in insurance costs is gaining value and implementation of July 1st, 2017. Hv. Councilmen Vilhjálmur Bjarnason and Sigríður Á. Andersen sign this opinion according to a 4 mg source. 18th par. On the rules of conduct of the Synod Committees. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be approved by a change made in a special Senate document. The majority of it has a wag. Councilmen Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, Brynjar Níelsson, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Steingrímsson, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason and Sigmiur Á. Andersen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u99	Mr. President. A smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee provides special food and special consideration to the terms involved in the match-making between tax steps. A very different viewpoint was developed on the bill with regard to the intervening intervening tax steps of a couple, while the bill suggests that taxation authority will be eliminated. The bottom line is that when the three - step income tax system was taken up in 2010, there was also a selective rule that used couples in those cases when one spouse, or joint taxation, is on top of the income taxation level, while the other includes not taking full advantage of the central phase. This principle had been expected to fall by reducing the number of tax steps on January 1, 2017. However, this change was made in the progress of the matter at the council, i.e. The decrease in the number of steps, the order being maintained. V.E.G. A financial and economic minister now suggested that the rule be taken away and presented with a variety of arguments, but what about the rule? However, members of the smaller section give particular evidence that the common tax policy enhances the provision of income-seated households, in the vast majority of its households in the highest income. At the same time, the homes that will gain the money also have a large share in funding homes, according to the financial agency's memoir. Thus, the rule goes against the general role of the public to help balance the income distribution rather than increase its share. In addition, higher levels of homes can make full use of the common tax policy if one person is able to take all his income through a community or private partner society. The Community Protocol, as well as I further quote in the Ministry of Financial Memory, further upsets the declared objective of the change in income taxation in 2016-2017, which was primarily to improve the interests of intermediate groups. In addition, the secretaries' notes that the interaggregation principle directly contributed to increased sex rights in which women generally paid less than men, which should be most of them. Congress members of a well - known fact where we have discussed many unexplained wages of the sex and are also responsible for more unpaid domestic and care. Where men are more harvested for about 75% of the relationships in the financial office memo is this procedure that is more effective for men than for women. In most cases, the person's income is increased more than the individual's income, i.e. in most cases of the woman, remain unchanged, which means that men get tax appeals based on women's work and wages, their income increases, and the pay gaps between sexes increase, with a direct increase in economic balance targets between men and women. So I continue to quote a financial memo that states that based on equality, it was important that tax systems do not have an built-in impulse that can reduce employment support or financial independence. This process involves the motivation for women to take on more than men without paid domestic care and care to form in a large proportion of women in part - time work. Thus, taxation reduces economic equality between sex and financial independence among women, as well as the promoting of traditional domestic chores in which they have more responsibilities in women than men. Thus, the ability between tax steps in this case is likely to increase the sex rights. The majority of the Economic and Business Committee did not agree with these arguments, as can be seen on his committee and on any of the changes made. paritaprevir Brunes the son of Níelsson passed over earlier. In this context, it will also be important that, in the case of a change in the number of segments approved, income is lacking at $3 billion. ... ina governmentcrowdingprogrammer. Let's count it out. Councilmen in my part of the Economic and Business Committee are completely unacceptable to the fact that this change, which is the most efficient group of society's interests in terms of benefits, and I have not, in fact, seen that this would be of particular benefit to the most lucrative homes, will result in further cutting down on basic services for the general public. I would have thought it normal to contribute to return income, to make up an increase in higher tax levels. V.E.G. The prime minister of Iceland, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, spoke this case in fact yesterday, pointing out that the matter would be better handled and that there would be options for earnings, since three and a half billion people could not be divorced without financial resources. That's what I said. Prime Minister in last night's discussion. I expect it to be of the highest interest. Secretary of finance who suggested this. It should not be forgotten that this is, of course, cutting down an insurance bill that the Committee supports as a whole, about 3 billion, so there is an increase of more than 3 billion. I expect a solution to their income will be required. Finally, the members of the committee's list suggest that the smaller part contributes to the disintegration of the majority of the country's labor movement, the European Union of Iceland, supports the original proposal. Economic and financial ministers, like a smaller part of the Committee. Under countless printed page. The council of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, chief of history, and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u100	A respectable president. I'm not from the possibility that there could be some misunderstanding on the basis of the minority opinion of that as a dog. A senator just introduced himself. Now, in December 2009, the law that has been called a law on pa·rou·siʹa was brought to law by the last government. The principle allows coherence between husband and wife or persons in a state of agreement that the person with higher income can use the non-employed tax step of the other person in a lower tax step. It's supposed in my committee party part of it. The Economic and Business Committee that this will lead to some kind of discrimination because there is the potential for more money in the home, and thus this rule upsets the alleged goal of improving mainly the interests of intermediate groups. Now I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament would have made a major change in her view of this provision since 2009, when it included: brought this law into the first legal setting where the income tax was taken up. It would be so interesting to learn how this works exactly because this rule is intended to settle the situation of two households with equal income and money distribution between the two households. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The money's equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u101	Mr. President. Hv. A senator wants to discuss the background of this case. I studied her in my speech. This rule is recorded at the time of the creation of a multi-stage tax system. This is likely to be the case with a multi-stage tax system. I'm against the highest argument. A minister when he says, "We're losing our pace here, so it's normal to revise these rules. I'd like to state that the evidence I covered, and I thought that important was not all the evidence that was highest. The minister went along, and he witnessed even. Also to another declared goal, which I may not necessarily agree with, but I think it is. An officer giving an answer expressed agreement, which is involved in simplifying the tax system. V.E.G. A minister reasoned that it was important to withdraw the steps and simplify the tax system, e.g. This is a rule. There are, of course, arguments that I've heard very often from what was. Councilmen and the highest. Legioners of the Independence Party, but there is a tendency. The members of the Independence Committee are not about to simplify this aspect of the tax system according to the opinion of more part. In view of the reduction of the steps and the stated goal of doing so, it is reasonable to consider such a rule to be revised. It will take more steps than the two that are being reduced. However, at the time when the matter was being discussed on the committee, I did not necessarily feel as strongly about it as I have now done with this committee, that it is important to distinguish it from income and gender on the other hand. Like what? A senator remembers that their questions were asked when the case was the last one to come. As a result, the Ministry of Economics went to a considerable amount of work that came into the memo quoted above. This is what the Ministry will do. Hv. It can be questioned by a senator who spoke of the alleged objective of the changes in income taxation as benefiting from intermediate groups. I'm just witnessing the stated goal of the highest. Secretary of the category, sir. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u102	A respectable president. I don't doubt that goal, of course, I support my whole mind to improve the interests of intermediate groups. But that is exactly what I asked, and I reiterate it to the question. A senator in what way is the benefit of just intermediate groups, or just families, families with the same household income as the nearest home, that they have to carry up to 700 yous. K. a higher tax burden per year because they are not permitted to use the non-filled tax step of one person. I agree with all the politicians who want to make it their goal to simplify the tax system. That's very important. During this terms period, a step has been taken that will eventually take place for the next year's season. However, it remains that we are still in the presence of an unwise tax system, which is left to the administration. A senator was on a multi-stage income tax system. It will still be with people. While this is the case, it has to be tailored to one system of bait, which, in this case, lands in low - income homes, homes with even one breadwinner, say one and a half pro work, people with a year's income, family income of more than 8 million. K. One home may be hundreds of you. K. tax loads above other homes that have exactly the same household income. I'm asking why. A senator: Where does she see justice in it and where she sees this great profit hope in high - paying candidates by this principle, if we adhere to the word that is not, in fact, a reflection of the phenomenon being presented here? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u103	Mr. President. The sort of analysis that the Ministry did. The Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs has not been protested as a matter of benefiting mainly from this principle as a home in the top income field. This is illustrated in the comments on the subject. This is shown in the ministry survey, which was specifically requested when this case was being discussed. I know why. A senator's words do not necessarily agree with the level of income equality of the tax system. She does not agree to take up a step - apart tax system, as shown in her answer. I don't agree with that. I think this balance role is very important and has been discussed many times and many times, and I believe that we are. A senator just doesn't agree on it at all. Of course, if we accept balance, we need to examine the consequences of such changes. The analysis shows that this will be of primary benefit to the homes of the highest income level. Second, there is a sex - based view that would certainly be fun to have a long conversation with a man. A senator would know if there was a long time in this discussion. We've introduced what we call a sensory fiscal and a sensory economy. V.E.G. Ministers have maintained their last government policy. I'm glad to hear it. Minister has. I think it's a sign of vision. Of course, we should discern how this affects the sexes. Third, the question that I haven't yet heard of. The members of the greater part will answer, how to prepare this $3 billion into a government fund's income plan. When we're talking about something, it's something important. how to lower the roof of patient payment that these 3 billion can be taken here and thrown out of the window with a single pen mark in the majority of the section in order to make special attention to the interests of the highest household. That's what's being done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u104	President. I'm supporting the Minister's bill as it was submitted. I'm glad the insurance money's dropped. I think it should have done it sooner, and even it could have been lowered more than it really was. The insurance bill will follow this decline higher than it was before it began to rise after the collapse of the economy, if the president understands my words. In other words, it is not back into what it was before it began to increase after the economic breakdown when it was necessary to make money wherever it was and especially because there was a lot more money in employment insurance. Now it has been with the insurance bill that while unemployment has been reduced, income, where there is no need for it, has fallen directly into the financial system. That's where I think it might have been different things, the treatment of the insurance. In terms of the equivalent, as well as the proposal made by the secretary of finance, that a husband and his wife are removed and that thus they are to be made to a total of 3 billion dollars. which it costs a state's budget to turn down the insurance bill as suggested here, so do I. I returned a committee party with a bang. paritaprevir The Katrín of Jakobsdóttir, whom she has made very clear in the preceding article. I want it to be clear that I support the Minister's bill as it was submitted. I object to the adjustment proposed by the majority of the Committee to maintain the collective process right now. I'm asking you how to bridge this for over 3 billion bucks. a hole that then would have to be if the money was missing? Actually, it's more than 4 billion, but I think it's 3.6, while money is missing in many parts of society. I think I'm right about the fact that in the government budget, which was put forward here and then discussed when we get back together in August, these 3 billion beds, or close to 4, which is due to the release of the taxation, are considered to be relevant when the financial program is being followed. It happened, to destroy uncertainty there, that this money should go into a treasure. This is what I'd like to say: I welcome the Minister's bill. I'm against the changes more than a part of the Economic and Business Committee is going to make.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u105	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in various tax and tax laws. Hv. paritaprevir armoures Níelsson's son, ruler of the greater part of the head. The Economic and Business Committee, went over it very well. I'm going to enter two aspects of the matter, on the one hand, and in the other. This is an important step in reducing insurance costs and is well, as is a part of the workforce's agreement between the government and the labour market partners. It is a joy to see that much of the government's policy is presented in a committee program. Committees to continue this course with further declines in the coming years, hopefully providing the basis for it and the evidence of a healthy labour market and a powerful job environment. Yet, there has been some discussion. Here it is suggested that tax steps be removed, but more things are done at once. The Economic and Business Committee has a change in its proposal for continuity. I sign it as part of the Committee's opinion and agree with the arguments coming through. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson son of Nils, the spokesman for the matter. I'd like to, however, here, a respectable president, refer to the bill that says, with permission: ▪ On a bill for 2016 (Annuary 2), the 2015 Categorization Protocol, along with the midpoint 2017 - which will take place next year - the rule of the Council, was assumed to include only the transfer of incomes between steps 3 and 2. The Economic and Business Committee made a change to the 2nd Environment. where there was a decline between steps since January 1, 2017, and the expected that intermediate stock would no longer be limited to 50% of the damaged es spacing at the bottom of the income - level partner, but there would be no limit. This would amount to a system change from individual taxation to a full contract on the family base. In a sense, this is a very important matter. The 3rd. The change was made to maintain the 50% goal. More of it. A committee has not failed that their principal examination, a respectable president, should continue to allow half of the income transfers between top and lower steps. To back up, I again refer to the committee's opinion of the greater part and the speech of the great. manager for the majority of the committee. As we have seen during the discussion, a decline in the same principle would include a simple, but the point is to view a home as a unit and a balance as the principle of right and duty shared by a husband and wife. In the end, I would like to justify support and refer to the Committee to a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee in case 2, earlier in this council, which says, by permission of the President, that in comments to the bill, the impact would have been revealed if this were to be altered, i.e. that the tax was removed, as far as income tax taxation was concerned, the tax was added to people with 16.8 billion. K. The combined tax base per year, which is twice the amount of the lower level of the individual in the new budget; if one of them earns all of the income, the tax would be estimated to be 30% higher than if they were to earn half of the income. This error, or the difference, is due to the fact that, if it has all the income, one of them will be taxed at the top, but if the income is equally taxing, all the income will be reduced. So, more than one part of it is food. The economic and business committees believe that it is important for this source to remain in place and feel that the Commission is a stream of streamline and efficiency points not to the weight of the interests of the people behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u106	A respectable president. I'd like to step into a very brief matter in general, to the bill and to that committee party as much as possible. The Economic and Business Committee has sent over and I'm on it. I would like to begin with the plans presented here for the reduction of insurance costs and the fine solidarity that has been held at the council on that matter. I think the material to go beyond that and I have expectations that it will be done at the next loss, if you continue to be authorized to do so. I'd like to draw attention to why. A financial and business committee discussed an arrangement at Leifsson's Air Station, but reports in the winter had been that vessels might have access to legal permission by law to sell alcohol, as it has been for decades. What caught my attention in that news transfer, and in that news, the local sheriff had made an answer to the direct and clear inquiries about that matter for months, so that it is not hoped that there were two masks left on those involved in the case, since the request for the commission to be made a law-change to take from allegations that the government's private rights of Alcohol and tobacco shops outside Leifs stations would not block sales at Leifs Station. The extent to which this arrangement is different, which is the exclusive right of the State on liquor sales, is summed up by all of this. In fact, I think there may be more questions about alcohol sales than at a tax-free store and therefore presented a view for the Commission that since people considered themselves in full right to sell alcohol there, I don't think that there is a reason to set up a special law, they would have to put it under trial if so, but up to one point, I would consider a greater proportion of the committee to this matter, as this is done in some opinion. What I really wanted to talk about here is the principle that has been considered specifically and has been called a warrant for taxation, which may not be entirely an indication of the phenomenon involved. Hv. A senator who spoke before me, Willum Þór Þórsson, described such experiences as fine. I can refer to his speech as far as it goes. However, I would like to justify it, because it has been shown in the front of the committee that the authority for the taxpayers to use a reduced tax level for the higher-priority product is not a very selective rule taken up in 2009 when a multi-stage income tax system was adopted. On the contrary, this procedure harmonizes fully with the principle of tax rights, as well as with marriage rights, that marriage mates are in agreement, as it is responsible for the advancement of each other. This principle has been shown in various ways, both in tax laws and in marriage, whether a husband and wife are responsible for taxes; it is presented in a way that a husband and wife are personally responsible for the taxes they owe each other. A variation from the principle of marriage rights is that a husband and wife are not responsible for anything other than their own. That's one of the rules. This is also shown by the complete transfer between husband and wife. This principle is also shown by the fact that when we calculate and set the limits of improvement for married couples, it is based on the same value as that of both incomes. So this is the principle. There is a situation in which the right to choose, as the left administration did during the last terms, to complicate the income tax system in a way that has multiple income tax points. Then every person, including the left government, has decided that such misunderstandings create an unfortunate situation and can lead to a very unfair tax burden as much as anyone. That is why the left government itself went on to ensure that an unfilled tax step, a lower tax step, would not be wasted, but would be used in the interests of both mates and, hence, in behalf of the concerned household. It has been noted here that there is a rule of origin. The Economic and Business Committee ensured that it would continue for the next year - although one step was being dropped, we still have two income tax points -- that this is a cost to the state of 3 billion. In fact, it is not correct, not accurate, because they are overlooked - if they want to see it as the government's expenses, which they are not, they are not expenses, they are less taxes, but they are not expenses - that the government has taken care of this expenditure since 2009. Less tax returns have been between 1.5 billion and 2 billion, if I recall correctly, according to financial analysis. When we ensured the continuation of this rule for the last year, which would take effect for a next year, this loss of income would be less than 3 billion; I remembered that it might be over a billion. Here the view that the role of the tax system in the tax system is to influence the distribution of income in the country, as it was so often in the past. So I disagree completely. I think it's safe to say that this may not be a general view of the tax rights. Based on government records, right to equal taxation, the tax system is not a suitable or preferred tool to interfere with income distribution or the equation in society. The tax system is to be used for a special purpose, such as the one also mentioned here, in an equal struggle. The tax system has to be neutral. The tax system is just a income system. It is imperative that taxes are not discriminated against, and it is specifically stated in the Constitution that taxes need to be leveled against and that the same views apply to everyone. The tax system is also supposed to be sexless and not, as it seems to have become in the minds of some. This is an important thing. I'd also like to mention in this connection that I'm embarrassed to hear this authority discussed for the same taxation so that I use it a word -- I don't like it because it's not in the light of it, this authority to move a worthless tax step up to the next level, that by doing so, it's a matter of particular consideration to the women's status in society. Keep in mind that the role of women in a commercial market is no greater than that in Iceland, 80%. There is no woman, I think I allow myself to state, who decides to stay at home and not go out to the job market - which well means that there may be a woman, too, the spouse - in order to give her partner an unfilled income tax level and thus make up for a possible 700 you. K. over the year. It is a very farfetched viewpoint, and it does not end up, as I say, that marriage mates may be of the same sex. It cannot be concluded that this is a special approach to women in this regard. The circumstances of homes, homes, or homes at one time in life are common, so one mate needs to be at home for a certain time. This may be because one side is studying. Would not the left man want to improve the interests of such homes and give them the opportunity to complete a study while the other mate is breadwinning the home? People have children, then only one partner is at home for some time and may prefer to do so longer than a legal birthlord. Hopefully, most people will be able to stay a little longer at home with their children. This principle meets that people. Then there are those whom I have the deepest sympathy for in this, who have no choice but to stay at home because of their own illness, the sickest of children, in order to care for long - suffering children. They greatly remember that earning a living pays the same taxes as the house next to the one with the same household income. That can remember 700 of you. K. in two homes that have the same household income. It's the home that has the only breadwinner in 700 you've got. K. more taxes if this rule is not contained, the authority to transfer a reduced tax step from the lower level to the higher level; 700 yous. K. There's a lot of home for my money. But I'm going to allow myself to claim that there is no woman who decides to stay at home for that money in particular. This is to be met with the homes that for a longer or shorter time will require that the bread be only on their own. In this respect, I think of the views expressed in the lesser part of my history. The Economic and Business Committee is, in fact, a family conflicting attitude. I'm sorry, Mr President, but I'm going to have to say it. I want to end up saying this because this is a big deal because it was supposed to be a simple tax system - and I'm a human being first to support a simple tax system - that the fact that the income tax system was complicated by a huge number in the last government, in 2009; and it has not been simplified back to the point of worrying about the increased tax burden that can become on those households with one prior work. In view of this, although it may require some business with the tax authorities, which I have not heard, they complain specifically in this respect - it is not complicated. Although this is a bit of a complication, it will be justified by the evidence that there is a complex income tax system that has unpredictable consequences and unfair consequences for the few families in the country where there is a breadwinner or where bread earners have considerably higher income than the spouse who sits at home or who earns less income. I encourage all of the people here who have spoken and are concerned about the misunderstanding, and carry it on in this case, to get together and then to cut off one income tax step so that we can go back to the years by 2009 when income taxation was just one step. Finally, I would like to make a serious comment to the comment made in a memo published by the Ministry of Economics, which was submitted to the committee, which states that the principle of taxation adds to the provision of income - higher households. If people understand this matter, as I've been describing it here, it's not that they're saluting a sumer at the expense of the income. We have two homes with the same family income. I feel very sorry to see this comment in a financial memo, especially in the circumstances of the homes that have required it to be mostly one of the breadwinners. A respectable president. In conclusion, I want to point out that last year, last December, was here a general agreement to propose. The Economic and Business Committee suggested that this principle be maintained for the next year when the steps are reduced from three to two. I hope there's an excellent way of getting back together in this chamber, though someone's been doing it in some way. I hope you see light in this case after sleeping on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u107	A respectable president. I'm glad we're on schedule for this case and that I'm going to be able to measure it, because last night we had a chance to discuss two similar matters together, i.e. A proposal for interpretation of Article 1367 and the resolution I discuss here at Council Council Regulation 392 and long before. Less than a thousand language numbers there. It was concluded at the council that I made a recommendation for the case today and that both of these matters would be referred to the administrative and monitoring committee for discussion. As president of the United States reviewed, my proposal to study the privatization of the second bank. In the winter Senate, legislation on committees has been updated, so the text in the Senate resolution of this issue is no longer applicable to the NTSB committee. But this will be taken into account in the hearing of the council, for when I suggested the proposal in November I did not know what would result from such an adjustment on the research committees. This, therefore, must be taken into account in the synoptic text. It is suggested that a committee be formed to investigate the fragmentation and return of Iceland's bank, Glitnis and Copenhagen banks, and that the Committee should make public, in a disintegration manner, each assessment price of the same property was on their transfer from the fallen banks to the new banks, the responsible agents for the price assessment, and the basis for it. Then the Committee will also discuss the most important sales of individual organizations and property in the hands of broken governments and the return committees of old banks to the new banks. In this way they will be able to tell the basic value, how to choose the new banks, how to finance the purchases, and what trade risk to the sale, as well as to what the State's danger was put in, if put in some danger. Then, according to some cases, the Committee will take steps to address cases where there is a suspicion of criminal conduct or violation of duties, as well as to recognize them in their report to the General when the committee has completed its work. A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion tonight. We are already in the evening, and there are other subjects on the program. I refer to another aspect of the comparison between these two interpretation proposals in my speech from yesterday. It showed what the synoptic proposal will be; to investigate the privatization of the second on February 2009 to the end of 2009. This is not about the restoration of banks that took place on the fall days of 2008. Everything went very well with the circumstances back then, that was the state of the punks who ruled here when the banks fell, but the banks were rebuilt on the foundation of the crisis and were successful. I want to be examined when the banks were brought overnight in 2009 without any concern for the State's interests or have been discussed in some kind of privatizing committee, such as the previous privatization, etc. A respectable president. I hope that the case will be largely supported by a vote tomorrow and will receive the same support as the proposal discussed here yesterday, and that these matters will be referred to the management and monitoring committee, and that will be tore up and discuss next week's committees, in the summer and in August, when the council meets again. Then the decision will be made by a board of administrations and monitoring committees, where all classes have representatives, the outcome of this case, as well as the case mentioned yesterday. A respectable president. Thank you for a good sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u108	A respectable president. I recommend a committee program with a greater part of the General and Education Committee for a bill to correct the adjustment of elementary school law, No. 91/2008, with subsequent changes. The objective of the bill is to sharpen the law of an independent elementary school and to explain the framework of their activities in terms of finance and the rights of those who enjoy the ministry, as well as to enhance the clarity of legislation on the activities of so - called vacation home for younger children in high school. Then the bill contains suggestions on changing the rules of basic school law on administrative matters and on the cooperation of rural society in elementary school. In the majority of this, the majority of households feel that the majority of them believe that it is unrealistic to have unscrupulous communities to offer access to vacation homes, but is still necessary because of the spread of such households that there is a law on the operation. He also emphasizes that the quality of leisure work will be developed as well as that it will be prepared into consideration the viewpoints of rural society and freedom given to different rural communities in order to conduct leisure activities in accordance with local circumstances and emphasis. I also want to know that with the independent driver of elementary school it's not meant with this bill to change the current rights basically, but to sharpen the law on an independent, active school. Guðmundur Steingrímsson is signing this article in advance. He believes that the equal availability of education regardless of the economy is key in the Icelandic education system. It is his understanding that using a bill of this, he is not paid a hole for his own school activities with high school fees that are only available to children of more wealthy parents, but would only be in the right condition. On these grounds, he supports the bill. The Hrafn Gunnsson Gunnarsson, under the heading for the overall context of the bill, is also considered to be the figure of a budget made for an independent primary school ticket of 90% instead of 75% as expected in the bill. Other than that, in the case of Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdóttir, Lady Anna Sævarsdóttir, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Einarsson, Mnæfjörn Helgi Gunnarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. Thank you. A global and educational committee for their work on the work of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u109	Mr. President. I'm recommending the opinion of a smaller part of the General and Education Committee on bill to correct the adjustment of elementary school law, No. 91/2008, with regard to the independentpace of elementary school, changed the boundaries of employment, hobbies, and vacation homes. The bill adds a new chapter to a law on elementary school, where there is a clearer rules set for the function of an independent secondary school. Is this the main subject of the bill? The right of children to enjoy the services of so - called vacation homes and rules for such homes are added. Then the bill contains changes to basic school laws on administrative matters and the cooperation of rural society in elementary schools as well as other smaller changes. The smaller parts do not conflict with other factors of the bill than those who are attracted to basic schools. In other words, we are in favor and content with the boundaries of community vacation and vacation homes. The minority agrees with Iceland's Teacher Union, as well as with the Commission review, that all children in Iceland should have an education in a rural public school. In other words, the smaller part is opposed to the fact that rural society can evict all its basic school management to a private person like the bill assumes, as agreed by the F- team 6. It is. It is reason to wonder whether with the bill there is a step towards the general privateisation and whether such a step is in the public service. Several questions remain regarding the entry of basic school education to a community from an independent elementary school. How is the decision to expel elementary school? Is it that a simple majority of local government officials are taking charge or that they require solidarity on the matter in the local community? What is the role of the school committee or school council in making such a decision? Will it be important that schools of independence often have special teaching or school policies and that citizens might be forced to send their children to such schools despite their affection? Could there be a situation where private equipment could be cut off as a shrimping school that has limited potential for regressing in case of dissatisfaction? Finally, there are countless ways in which teachers and other employees of a local school decide to privatize their basic school activities. In such cases, it might be expected that the employee would have no choice but to accept a job from the private operator or to move. There is no guarantee that the staff will maintain their rightful and acquired rights. In the bill, this is unconcerned, but in view of the memory of the section, it would have been necessary to ensure that a rural society, which puts out all its basic schools to ensure that teachers and other employees held both their salary and their rights. The minority feels that these questions will be answered and that they will inform the whole issue. In Figure 1. F- crew 6. The bill says that there will be a guarantee of the non-employment school of students in an independent middle school in which there is no choice. The smaller portion of this law is important, which means that independent schools are forbidden to collect school fees from students who do not have a government choice for basic schools. All educational expenses must be on the responsibility and paid by the local community, whereby it decides whether it pays for special requirements made by an independent operator, such as the student's school uniform, special study tools, or special facilities or equipment. The minority feels that students will not be charged for such an expense. In view of my share, the bill lacks coverage on the issues needed in a private member's application to rural society on permission to operate in that elementary school. A basic school law would have to specify the minimal information required for such an application and the confirmation that the application would need to be followed. Finally, the smaller portion of the 1st law falls against that part of Item 1st.mg. D- men 6. the bill allowing for a private member who runs a basic school job ◯in the form of an automaton, part of a society, or according to another approved management plan. In this way, the operator of an independent middle school is given a completely free - handed choice of associates. In view of the memory of the share on basic school management, it should not be profit free and therefore should be more of an automaton force than of other partner shapes. The law should require this to ensure that the funds needed for school are used. In this regard, the writer of the article "What Is Here? " paritaprevir Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þordóðurdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u110	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Committee of General and Education in this case, but this is a general review of the current laws on foreigners. Actually, the laws on the legal rights of foreigners are laid down. The aim of these changes is to promote improved foreign services and, in particular, foreign experts, students, investigators, and candidates for international protection. The aim is to ensure increased effectiveness and quality within the administration and economy in the use of the financial resources to which we are involved in the seminary, to support the Icelandic labour market, and to increase international competitiveness. There's a huge bill in here that I have to say is one of the bigger things a global and educational committee has done in this terms. Clearly, the preparation of the matter was in a way that some senators know well about its contents. Minister of the state, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, a transnational Parliamentary commission to prepare for the bill. Current level. Secretary of the state, Ólöf Nordal, continued that work and set the matter straight at the council. A number of adjustments are in accordance with the Commission's case, but part of them focuses on earlier in this session we agreed to the bill on changing the laws of foreigners in regard to a procedure for the judicial committee of foreigners and was therefore necessary to make adjustments because of the proposals made by law before this case was completed in the Ministry, i.e. When the bill was written in the Ministry, it was not taken into account that the General Assembly had legally established the former foreign bill, which is known as the shortcomb. I'm going to use this short time that I have to review some of the basic adjustments. We took all the laws that concern our children and examined them specifically because there were specific indications that much of the adjustments in the arrangement might be made. The changes were, of course, in cooperation with the people working in the system. For example, in the United Nations Convention on Child Rights and in the status of a child's interestskeeper, who actually falls away and instead uses the child - welfare authorities and those who already operate within the system. The idea is to strengthen their functions and to use the expertise that has already developed in them. There are important changes. We also suggest changes in the processing of personal information, but comments from Perone Protection were received that we thought were appropriate to consider. Of course, it is important that these changes be done with sensitive data, and I believe that there are improvements. Peritoneal protection stated that a general statement of sensitive person information available in the bill did not meet the requirements for the management of sensitive information and that the rules would need to be clearer regarding the implementation of information. Rules on the need to be carefully implemented so that vehicles will not lead to excessive data collection. We thought it best to agree, and we made some adjustments to the arrangement found in paragraph 17. We specifically discussed terms of international protection. We'll make some adjustments about that. In particular, I would like to talk about obtaining information for application on international protection, which is discussed in Section 26. 3 mg. it is recommended that the applicant who claims to be an unscheduled child is suspected and cannot be conclusively confirmed, should be performed as soon as possible. Of course, this is a sensitive subject. The principle suggests that only a foreign agency can achieve a dating date. We come here to suggest that there may be cases where the candidate's age may be in late stages, or the NTSB is considered necessary for some reason to call upon the date. The committee also counts, in view of the fact that candidates who claim to be children are under the custody of the Children's Protective Authorities, that they have the possibility of dating and that it may be possible for the police, the applicant, or their spokesman, to have valid grounds for dating. Hence, we make adjustments in the arrangement. I had briefly reviewed the child's interestskeeper, because it's the law we're changing, but our proposals aim to ensure that the child's interests will be on the hands of one party, i.e. Child Services, and we make plans, as I said before, many additional changes in order for the bill to complete everything with this changed position. We discussed the section on refugees and protection from persecution. 36th. you will be referred to an application for international protection taken into account for the treatment of the material. We suggest a change in the arrangement and a need to evaluate both the individual and the situation and the state of the country to which it is sent, which is in 2 mg. 36 st. The refugee concept, of which it is discussed in Article 37. At a meeting of the Committee, it was concluded that this translation does not control the term in which the term, as defined in national rights, refers to attacks where military and civil targets are not distinguished. At the same time, it was noted that such attacks need not be random. In view of this, we make adjustments in the arrangement as well as in the headline of the Law. We discussed a great deal about the terms on employment licenses, and I'd especially like to call attention to 62 p.m. for trespassing due to lack of staff In the treatment of the Commission bill, it was observed that individuals who have developed ties with the community and the companies they are working for had to leave the country because of this despite continuing lack of the article, because the provision of patents under the directive does not provide the right to the permanent residence permit. If the person is to stay abroad for two consecutive years, before being allowed to re-employ the job. In view of the above, there are restrictions on government policy on improving corporate working conditions and the long term needs of the labour market need to be kept in mind. Hence, the Commission suggests the change to a permit granted on the basis of 62rd. can become the basis of an untimely resort. Similarly, we make adjustments in the legal rights of foreigners. We're dealing with a patent for study. There are several legal adjustments. We're dealing with housing clearances for family unity. Four. Sixty-niner. will discuss the conditions for living as a result of family relationships, and it says that no longer than one year of age will be allowed to allow permanent housing except when the family member whose application is based on the country will need specialised knowledge. The committee feels that this is not a way to limit the duration of residence and suggests the change of the provision. We are particularly concerned about rights for children, but in the 71st. The bill is a set of procedures in which a patent to children is explained and their rights are guaranteed. In 1st. it is decreed that a child under the age of 18 should be allowed to be admitted on the basis of parental permission or authority. The committee suggests the adjustment that the law applies also to 63 C.E. The bill is a guide for the Sports Reservation. We'll add it up. We discussed deportation and made some changes in both 7 and 8 mg. 104. g. 7 mg. says the police are pleased with the process of deduction and deportation. It was concluded by the Committee that a contract is now being concluded with IOM, where it is being negotiated with the parties to carry out the move abroad for those who will or go voluntarily. A foreign agency pointed out that there is reason to allow them to care for some of the sources that arise if certain requirements are met. Such contracts include a great improvement in the rights and management of foreigners in either a decision to extort or to despondency or to be a candidate for protection that draws his application back. Of course, this is important. Hence, we agree with that viewpoint and make adjustments. It was noted that in many aspects of the bill, the European Commission does not establish clear boundaries but is assigned to the Commission to set the material rules and conditions. We have a trial in our committees, because this is important, that national legislation on foreigners may be divided into two groups, i.e. EEA/EFTA citizens and so Third Reich citizens, but the legislation also covers a large number of lawsuits, both visas, licenses, shelters, and expulsions. It should be considered by the Committee that changes of the situation can be made in a rapid fashion. This is a quick overview of the key changes we make on the bill. I'd like to state that, in the course of the case, we discussed a proposal for the resolution of the establishment of a fugitive's office. paritaprevir I'm an Ólína Þorvarðardóttir daughter, who's holding me with a rosary and maybe it's gonna be a little bit more of a story. We state that we believe that preparation should begin by checking the pros and needs of - or the proposal to set up the office of a refugee agent in Iceland, so that I can get it right from myself, but preparation will be started by checking the benefits and the need to establish the special office of a refugee agent. We had guests and only reviews about it. The senators asked those who were interested in expressing themselves on that subject at the same time. However, we do not take sides at this point in the objective of that suggestion, but we encourage the ministry to determine if the right and acceptable way to which this is presented is acceptable and correct. Just keep it up. We specifically discussed the role of Iceland's National Records on the implementation of these laws, but Iceland's National Book has a role and makes decisions on the rights of the EEA and EFTA citizens to live in Iceland beyond three months and if conditions are met, the Agency gives out registrations. We believe that further attention should be given to the role of Iceland's National Publications Index in the laws relating to foreign citizens. There is also a switch between Iceland's National and Foreign Institutes. This committee is directed to the Ministry of Internal Affairs to start such work. We also tore up our committees with points that need to be considered further. It is clear that in the changing world in which we live, these laws will always be viewed, and we, of course, need to stay awake, keep an eye on ourselves, and be prepared to intervene if something is better. We suggest a number of legal changes, as well as those which are toyed in a committee sheet and in a special document that is presented here, and we suggest that the bill be approved with the proposed changes. Under the heading, the one here, Hrafn Steingmursson, Línika Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir, Bjarkey Gunnarsson Gunnarsdóttir, Willum Þór Þórsson, Ólína Hönarfjönarsson, in advance, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason. I hope that the matter will be received in a good way and at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u111	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the prime speaker for her speech, but we'll cover the bill for the foreign law. This is an enormous deal. Here is a bill of 190 pages and a list of many pages. There are a lot of good things in the bill. It's got the world's most advanced primes that's ever seen. I understand that the projections are about 80 from the Committee and a great deal about legal aspects. I've talked to a lot of lawyers about this. They are concerned about how fast the matter is going through the council, this is a huge case that the entire nation needs to have time to discuss. In this hall, it is often said that everyone needs to have his own opinions and to express his opinion of things. I feel the same, and I'm on the move that space has not been given. Then, in August, summer and assembly are back in August, and it would not be impossible to give the nation a chance to study the matter at that time and then return in the fall. At the beginning of the bill, it says that the objective of the law is to ensure that the humanity and efficiency of governments in the affairs of foreigners here. That is a noble and good goal, and all of us agree on it. We want to help people, but the question is, How do we do it? Are we doing this on our terms or on some other basis? The change in the foreigners'law aims to facilitate access to the country. There are demands for people who come here, and can't present documents that demonstrate the rightness of their confirmation. It is compromising the requirements of the competent authority to determine whether certain claims are valid, such as ...................... The bill has no record of national safety or support. For example, if a foreigner seeks refuge in the country and refuses to submit to dating, it is forbidden to base an application on that reason. It is important to be able to resolve the situations of suspected refugees and refugees quickly and safely. It would be preferable that it would never leave places where it comes from by transportation, ship, or plane. It would also be desirable for the authorities to have the human resources and to have the resources to direct people right away, which does not provide adequate evidence of the right to stay on the land. We will also welcome those who come here on legitimate issues. An applicant for asylum should be available for housing, minimum supply and necessary medical services, including mental - health professionals and mental - health professionals. This is an invitation far better than Iceland's own. There's a shortage of housing here. We're agreeing to the Parliament on a general apartment, building 2,300 apartments for those mentioned among the hands. Older citizens are not allowed to live in residence homes, and those who live there are chosen to receive daily coins, over 60 Thous. K. every month, and have to pay for medical and health care. Hardly are the ideals we're going to invite any foreigners who want to come here. The experience of other nations shows that the growing number of foreigners who are able to come here under a variety of circumstances and are unable or unwilling to support themselves will far exceed the cost of this bill. This has been practiced for many years. A lot of people come here to work. We know this and have worked with people for many years. There are many Poles and Orientals, role models who have lived here, and come to this nation when their hands were out of work. Of course, all such people are welcome to the country. That's what it says. We've always been ready to welcome them. But we must look to it and look at what other nations have done and how their experience is of opening the border and having it unregulated. Swedes say, e.g. that they were naive in the affairs of foreigners. We know all the stories that come from the news of the last days. I'm not going to go over it here. Dans have formed national agreements to welcome those who are looking for a free forward will be stopped and they will enhance their surveillance and impose rules on it. Do we not need to learn from that experience? Do we not need to examine the experience of other nations by opening our borders? It is always true that there are some who are not desirable for such visits. I've been told by lawyers that in the bill, there are deadlines to paint a lot of food. There is no point in having it that way. It is important to discuss these laws, to be properly treated, and to discuss with the nation. The immigrants will probably always come to the country, and we will receive them. So far, we have welcomed it. But we have to control traffic. It's not possible for a small nation, a small labour market, educational and health centres to live with an assignment from immigrants we cannot handle because of the laws we're making. I'm not saying it's gonna be like that, but we need to think about what can happen. There is no difference between whom we welcome to our country or to our home. The country is our home, where all those who want to adopt the value of society and adapt to our culture and customs. I hope we take time to discuss this big case and this big bill. A lot of people have worked hard, a transnational committee, three representatives of the smaller section, and two from the greater part, have worked many months on the bill. I'm smart that those people have worked 100% in that job. But I think and the tips I've been given tell me we should be careful and give ourselves more time to settle this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u112	Mr. President. I have no doubt to respond to the words of the last speaker; it is true that all of us have the right to have our own opinions. I'm sorry when you're talking about that there's only one thing you can do, and that's all you can do. They say we can't treat our older people, our older citizens or microplies reasonably; they're connected together, i.e. Older citizens and war - torn people. I don't like comparison, I have to say it. I don't believe we're going to get a shovel of immigrants because of this law. The people are rapidly growing old. Clearly, generations to come are not so great that they can take care of us. So I think our community will do a great deal of good to get in here a variety of cultures and customs; that people will learn to live in peace and harmony with us and with them, immigrants who choose to settle here. I'm still going to discuss a proposal for an action plan on the affairs of immigrants, there are several chapters on refugees and their welcome, on the labour market, on instruction and counseling that I really hope are on the move but not just in the water. A respectable president. It was a long process, so I also felt strange when I was sick. A senator who spoke there wanted to give the nation an opportunity to study the matter. This is a case that has been in the water for a long time, started in the last Minister of the Interior, why. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son. Then a parapolitic committee takes its lead. paritaprevir Óttar Proppér, where this strong call is being sounded in the community and in the world as to the issues we face. Fortunately, we have come here to land here, which I'm sure is an improvement. I'd like to bring it up here to the point. The head of the General Committee, Berbá Konráðsdóttir, has been at the office of the Committee, and, in my opinion, has worked very well with the members of the committee and all the visitors we have received; a large proportion of the people involved in these matters have promoted their views to the Committee. So I can't see that it had changed anything that the matter had been in hiding this summer. The chairman of this office did just over most of the changes. I'd like to go into what is involved in being a child's interests and what is linked to it. Changes are made to define what this term means and what it takes for a child to get the help necessary while it is being treated by the authorities. Here is also a very important aspect in which children are expected to be entitled to listen and to make decisions that guide the child's interests. The right to express itself is desperate and not dependent on any condition. It is very important to listen to children and young people who come to the country, whether accompanied by an escort or with parents, and to allow their opinions to be heard. Regarding the treatment rules for international protection, the Committee emphasizes the right of each candidate as well as that each individual is measured on an individual basis, regardless of whether or whether he/she is applying alone as a member of the family. This is one of the factors that the United Nations Department of Refugees has emphasized, and the committee agreeed with it. Here, too, is the changing of the dating process, which has been rather controversial. They are now added that children themselves, children, or young people, or police officers can request such a diagnosis, not just the Foreign Institute. The term Children's Protection Center and Children's Health Organization have been defined as becoming a central institution holding this category. I think it's wise because a certain level of expertise will be built to deal with the issues of the group here. In fact, the child's interests are being guaranteed, on the basis of which he or she has the right to be built, whether it is an international protection and authority permit or for deportation. This is a point that I think strengthens grammatical bases and applications of children. Refugees and guard against persecution - they are stressing that the applicant has such a special relationship with the country that it is near to receive protection in this country and special reasons for taking care of the situation for the material treatment. Then you can think of the things that have been discussed and that are the last ones here at the council today. The committee suggests that there is a need for an individual's circumstances and conditions in the state to which he is being sent. Here, too, something needs to be made up of. How important it is that we hold hands with the thought of these laws! In this regard it is better to consider what it is to be a fugitive and point out that there is no distinction between military and civil targets. I think it is also to strengthen this matter. In the review of the United Nations International Refugee Agency and the Red Cross, criticism was found on time conditions for family unity applications. This was discussed by members of the committee, i.e. The Senate Committee, 1st. This had been changed since the release of the Senate Committee. The committee agreed and changed this, returning to what the Senate Committee had proposed. That's a very important law. There is also talk of a foreigner who owns an Icelandic citizen as a parent; there was also a time limit for the person to stay on the country for two years in order to obtain an untimely living permit. The committee points out that the provision does not predict when the foreigner must have had a residence permit and suggest a change. We talked a lot about employment participation and visas due to lack of staff. This may be the first and last thought of the lack of employment in certain specialised areas, but, of course, this may apply to other employment groups as well. Four. says that due to family unity, the period of residence should be longer than one year when a family member with whom the application is based is in this country because of this work, a specialised one. The Committee does not consider any grounds to limit the value time in this way, i.e. ... atthetwoyears. It is also important regarding the provision for children; i.e. that, according to current legislation, if a child receives a permit for 18 years, he will need to renew his residence permit, which will change with this, i.e. ... withouta child. I think we've been dealing with the courts, we've been discussing prison affairs, etc. - would have been interesting in many ways to work in a similar way to that of a foreign law, where there is a cross -cut and cross - political event. I think it could be progress before the council and the nation if we were thus able to cooperate with more major lawsuits. A respectable president. I think the bill is more positive than the current law; that humanity and human rights are more important. The 1st. The point was that. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir Savvarsdóttir that tone in law was also important. That's what's shining through, a more positive approach to the subject. Even if we'd wanted to see more and more thorough approach to it, it's still happening. Of course we should. You could say that such a bill can never be more than a living document. It is not likely that something needs to be revised when the law comes into effect. When we put songs like this, we say how we want to build a community, and we want to go even farther than here, we don't hide it. But this is clearly a step in the right direction. So at least I will follow it to the end. The bill goes on to explain the rightness and the rightfulness of foreigners. We are trying to strengthen the position of those in need of international protection and those who do not have the legal rights of international law. In view of what happened in the dog. The last speaker is as if people forgot that the move has taken place before in Europe. In those lands and in the nations that embraced people after such calamities, things did not turn out very well. The rich in Europe are expected to welcome people. We teach ourselves to be a member of a welfare community and should be in the lead of laws that guide human kindness. A respectable president. Of course, it is clear that there is a fine line between these contrasting views that we know, both in our home and in the countries around us, and, unfortunately, they have appeared in the political states, both in our countries and abroad, in racist views that are made out of fear because the refugee stream is large in our eyes because of war. We must never forget that we are talking about people like us, who have most of us risked their lives and limbs trying to save ourselves or to avoid getting completely killed in their own country. As a prosperous nation, we are under obligation to respond well to refugees. Of course, most people would like to be at home but have no choice but to flee and rely on such nations as us to open their arms and shoot over a safe house.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u113	A respectable president. I'd like to be a member of the Committee to Re-Elect. A top-of-the-art Board of Education mixed me with the discussion on this very important subject. First, though, I want to commend others. Chairman of the Committee, Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir, for good and great work leading this case through the committee. There are a number of adjustments made to the case, but they also show that it has been willing on the part of the leading committee to accept indications and to apply the procedure effectively in the treatment of Congress. There is also good reason to thank the Committee writer, Kristín Einarsdóttir, and the staff of the Ministry who have been offered and prepared fully to assist the committee on a number of solutions. To others who were born, I think it is safe to mention and thank Íris Björg's Kristjánsdóttir. That's what I know. The head of the committee would like to do so even though she forgot to mention it in her speech, but she asked me to give her thanks here. I do so with all my heart, for this good work in these fine staff didn't miss anyone. I believe that this case has improved, and I am glad that the committee agrees with the main objective of the synopsis that followed the matter of the establishment of a refugee agent and that the matter will be referred to advice for a request for a request. I am also glad that the changes made in the case following the premonition of a transnational Parliamentary commission. paritaprevir Óttar Proppér concluded that the committee has been replaced, both in family unity and in this respect. to repeat the case of children at 18 years of age, which is a completely unnecessary change in my knowledge and many others. It follows an inconsistencies that this bill does not correct in the treatment of eaters and terrorists on the other hand. That's something I'm going to do in a booking with the opinion of the Committee, which I'm a member of. I think it is important that the same treatment take place, and the interest offered to those who come here on government orders, such as the so - called portents, and to the rest who come here on their own roads and are the trustmakers. On this point, several members of the committee pointed out, and this is a perfectly valid and legitimate indication in my opinion. Then I will stop in my advance also on the basis of the need to separate between refugees'rights and interests and the field of research and the ruling authority that the Foreign Board has. These are comments in relation to chapters 4 and 30. The bill. According to the bill, the Foreign Institute is entrusted with all treatments for refugees, both research and decision making, but also interest and justice. I don't think it would agree with the basic principles of good administrative practices to have such a physical and incompatible role in one hand. I believe it could harm refugees'interests and rights which are due in the bill to be clients of the Agency and its object. There I see a period of confidentiality, a threat of confidentiality to the clientele of the U.S. National Institute for Refugees and Refugees, after they have searched for the hands of the Icelandic government. As I said, it turns to Section 4. and 30th parr. The bill. The instructions given in the interest and justice of people who are looking here, which I don't think should be on one hand, i.e. on the hands of the Foreign Institute. That's two things. One area of the Agency's research and decisionship that conflicts with this, e.g. can get information from people and about people who are then used against them by the same person, so I mention one example that can arise and conflicts with basic human rights and human rights. On the other hand, I would like to mention how the Agency has so clearly exercised its authority and a narrower interpretation of the laws of foreigners who are looking here. The latest example of this is that of Nigerian Ezes Okafors, who has now been excommunicated after four years of living here. There is every reason to doubt that the delay was past that the government had to dismiss the man on the basis of the so - called Order of Dublin. Yet, he was arrested and sent abroad. In part, this case explains why it is not desirable for this particular institution, which is repeatedly involved in a public opinion because of its treatment of defenseless people who are looking for them to be entrusted with totalitarian authority in the affairs of foreigners, as this bill suggests. Now, since I mentioned the Order of Dublin, it has been reported in the debates on this matter, mainly in the community, that it seems that there is some way in which it is legalized in this bill, but it's not, at least... not if I get it right. The system is mentioned in comments to the bill, but there is nothing in the bill that strengthens it or enhances its value. It is only a regulations under contract that the Icelanders are involved in and the government is fully committed to whether or not they will use it, they are not required to do so. I'd like to stress, as long as we're beginning to discuss, that the Dublin Protocol is not automatically applied. This is important to me, and I would have liked to see that position presented in a committee party. So I name things I see to improve, they're a few. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir covered that point well and is not a reason to repeat much of it, but he agrees with it all. Besides, I might be able to name 97. g. ... aboutthepersuade of warranty to deportation. It states that elimination is not to be decided, e.g. if there is a job searcher or an importer, in that case, as long as the person can provide proof that he is in an active job search and that he has a real potential for employment. This is an excellent arrangement, and it is also important in the 1st issue of Article 3. that extortion should not be an automatic result of the use of EU or EFTA or its members to the system of social assistance. I also believe that this is an important matter of rights. At 102nd. discusses the protection against deportation and restrictions on the decision to be expelled. It comes, for example. that disfellowshipping is not to be decided if it involves an unreasonable provision for foreigners or his closest members. This is important to me, especially in the light of recent incidents that have been introduced in our community to the refugees. I'm also glad that the bill is very important to the rights of children, which are improving. As we know, the United Nations Children's Controversy states that the interests of a child should always take the first place in terms of interest, but a recent incident indicates that this rule is not sufficiently respected. It's all tied up in the bill, and I'm glad to hear it. Thus, there are many benefits in this matter, interpolitical agreements about most of it, and the obvious parapolitic will to lead this case in some way through the council. That's respectable, I'd count. Like the people of the country, we have been interested in the matter of refugees for the past few months and loss. Earlier in the winter, a poll was conducted showing that 60% of the population wants government to take significant measures in the affairs of the trustees and immigrants. With Icelanders, we need to stop approaching this party, such as immigrants, refugees, refugees, and refugees, there is a problem that needs to be met because of us. The subject of war - torn refugees, e.g. is humanitarian. There is a heavy refugee stream to Europe from Syria and Afghanistan, and other areas of conflict, and the situation of the people, and the fate of many of those who have not reached the whole population in the continent. This popular opinion has put increasing pressure on governments in various countries to deal with them wisely. For a long time, the government withdrew its feet with lukewarm declarations that something would be done. This bill does not really solve the problem, for the bill is a covert around the seminary. This is not a question of whether or not we're going to expand, e.g. the refugees we receive. Nevertheless, this issue is of importance, although it is not addressed to the number of people that governments intend to accept. We'll probably discuss this later tonight when we're going to consider a strategy on import policy agendas that are presented in that schedule. Of course, the government should have a clear view of the future. It is not enough to indicate the need for, e.g. Because the issue of trustees and refugees is also a matter of personal worth. I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u114	A respectable president. As shown in the case of Brá? Konráðsdóttir I put my name on this committee's notice and am warned of the overall context of the case, the execution of the law and the operation of the government's policy as a whole. It is certainly a huge bill for a discussion that has blessed us with an admirable process. It is perfectly acceptable how this case has been worked for a very long time with the arrival of all members of the council. I think that's the key to that. Of course, while people disagree on various points in the bill, there is a greater agreement here on this matter than in most of the neighboring countries, where the sect is much controversial. Still, people have quite different opinions around here. I have noticed with the seminary that there is a huge misunderstanding among the common people on foreigners and foreigners. After moving from abroad to Canada, I know the misunderstanding of my own skin, and I thought it was my right to live there if I wanted to. Soon you'll find that it's not like that at all. Moving from one country to another is difficult and expensive. People do not make that fun, even when they have the authority to do so. But here a person often hears concerns or at least viewpoints that seem to indicate concern about the Flood, as I call it, for people who are always imminent. Certainly there are huge migrations in Europe because of civil war or the war in Syria or what to call it from this, whether you consider it a war or a civil war, it has become very special. But it seems that in the public conversation itself, if anything is allowed, there will be millions and will begin to do so. This is my general opinion in Icelandic culture, that as soon as something is permitted, a lot of people are allowed to do it only because it's allowed. But it is so with people around here that they generally want to be at home. If a man asks a Syrian fugitive, whether he is in Turkey or here, where he wants to be, and where he wants to go, he says he wants to go home knowing the language, culture, where his family is, friends, and acquaintances. The problem is often, as in the case of Syria, that it is simply not possible, that is, in fact, not literally alive in the area. That's why people leave. I almost like telling people that we're on the EEA deal. According to him, 500 million people, about 7% of our species, are being moved here today. People would have to sign up or something like this after three months, but millions of people, hundreds of millions of people, are allowed to move here today. Where are they? Because they want to be in general, at home. They want to be with the people they know, wanting to speak the language they know. People in general do not tear their lives apart and go to foreign lands for fun. People like me might, but most people don't. Thus, fear of the Flood is exaggerated. I think it's a fact. When EES was being discussed here, people were concerned about the Italians. You're supposed to be here millions of Italians. They can all move here today. All the Greeks, all with Greek citizenship may move here today. Where are they? They're at home. They don't want to come here in spite of Greece. So much of such anxiety is unnecessary. But the other thing is that when people move, we don't, in my opinion, focus so much on the number, how many people are coming, but how well you can receive people, how easy people are to share in the community. It is often spoken as if you were living a life far better than Icelanders and getting free money, and sometimes you hear ridiculous amounts of money in that context. That's not true. It sucks to be a trustee in Iceland. I don't reduce the fact that it sucks to be in all kinds of situations in Iceland, but the cost of keeping the refugees in Iceland is the expense of keeping them away from society, the cost of not allowing them to participate in such work as this. In fact, I have recently seen some improvement, but the cost, the waste of keeping people away from society, is incredible. That's how common it is about foreigners. So far, this case is still my opinion, after some kind of bullying that, in fact, might be quite more, better than the law we have today, end of the law we have today with which it may be extremely trivial. It's not just against the law. I have often claimed that some of the absurd issues we hear in the media are largely against the law. Maybe that's because I've focused mostly on the way the law is. But while I live up to the fact that many laws in the current law are completely absurd, I can see that it's not only the law that's wrong, it's also done. I'm going to say it here, I don't care if someone gets offended at it, that I think it's the attitude of the institutions of the Foreign Institutes and the Foreign Affairs Committee for Foreign Affairs that directly prevents people from enjoying the tools that it might otherwise enjoy. I think there's an attitude all over the administration and all over the system where people experience themselves on a wall, and they're trying to stop the Deluge. I think people's rights are severely ill, very often and very serious. I'm sorry. It's not only the law that's a problem in my opinion, it's also the attitude of the institutions of the country. There's a lot of stuff in this bill I'm against. I'm against the so-called list of established nationalities. I think he's bad. I still don't understand why they want to use such a list to clearly assess unfounded applications. If it is clearly unfounded, it is likely unfounded. I don't see why they have to resort to some ethnic list to make that decision. Likewise, when people are concerned about these matters, especially for Albania, from where people come and apply here, even saying themselves that they are here for economic reasons, why can't economic reasons be spoken? Why do we need to talk about a secure state of origin? We can have a very special policy on that. There are special rules for people coming here for different reasons. As I say, there are a lot of things in this bill and, of course, the sense of policy that I don't agree with. I think it should be a lot more free than it is. It's not right for me to want to open up the country to everyone and cut off a border and something like it. We may be able to examine it after a century, but it is nowhere near today's practicality. I'm sorry, but I think the case is that it's not even close to being realistic at the moment. I'm still saying, I'm sorry again. I'm totally convinced that this could be a lot more open than it is. I don't think this bill can get very close to having it as open as I'd like it to be. But I like to see in the bill fixing things that are just a confusion of current law, which is not exactly a result of the way people have thought of having these things, but, contrary to the fact that people have not thought things through. There are a lot of weird things in a decision - making process and results that are there because people have not thought things through. One very clear and recent example is the case of Ezes Okafor, which people would not want to be here for some reason while his application was being treated. There's no need to send that man out of the country. They don't serve any interests, even if you temporarily adopt the view that they're not supposed to be here, they're not supposed to be allowed, but it's pointless to send them out of the country while the application is being treated. They serve no one's interests, serve no opinions, and are nothing but pure wickedness that I, in spite of all, do not fully believe in the fact that the law is more liberal than it is, and this bill is more liberal than it is. I think people are really scared of things that just aren't right. If it were right here, I could have 500 million people, and suddenly I could have a better life than the rest of Iceland, I wouldn't be happy with that myself. But that's not the case, never was the case, and I'll never think of it. I think that much of the opposition to being more liberal foreign law is based on misunderstandings, serious, horrible, but honest misunderstandings about what the law is and what the consequences are of having it more liberal. It reminds me that people think the law is much more liberal than it is. People even come here saying that everyone who comes here wants to adjust to society, pay taxes, do their jobs, learn the language, of course be welcome. It's just not right, a respectable president, not even close to being right. That's not true. It's not welcome here, not under current law and not according to this bill. But if people think they're so liberal, I can see only better that people are more careful about going further in the direction they think is excessive. But she's not. The border is not being opened anymore. There are a number of laws and regulations that are being changed around how all of this arrangement works. Much of it is improved, some of it greatly improved, and some of it not so much to improve. Some of it confirms and legally establishes things that have otherwise been in accordance with tradition or legal interpretation or, therefore, something similar. But this is a huge book of laws, so it is difficult to determine whether it is good or bad because it is a lot of both. What I suggest is the question: Is this better than current legislation? After a very good job. The General and Education Committee, where there has been a great deal of discussion, after a very thorough consideration and communication with the experts on these matters and after the various adjustments made to the Committee, I now believe that this bill, will be law, better than the law that is in force today. But as I say, I put my name on the committee's opinion in advance and the warning on the overall context of the problem, the act of the law, which I fear will remain to high school shame, and the content of government policy in foreign affairs, which I hardly feel is present and that I am very wicked to the extent that it exists, and very often inhuman. I'm not going to extend this discussion. However, people who want to learn about this need to spend some time reading the bill itself, the report with it, and then, of course, the committee's opinion and adjustments. All those documents are very extensive. It's a very extensive discussion. But I'm glad, despite everything, that the case has been decided to do this so that all members of Congress are involved and, overall, I am impressed with how the approach has been, because I know that people don't agree very well about it. I'm not even gonna say it at this point, a respectable president. I'd like to finally decide that the Act of the Law is at next New Year's Eve. I suppose in this vast and complex matter there are many things that have to be fixed and that I expect that will prove to be provided that we are able to validate this bill, which I hope we succeed now and in fact assume. Then I also assume that what has been left over can be fixed before the law goes into effect for a year. I have to say, as is the big reason why I can think of supporting this case is that the value is about next year, because there's still time to fix it if there's any land mines, that can be very well. It's a very big, big case. Despite all the efforts of the Committee and all the fine practices that have been handled, this is still a matter that you are never entirely finished with. No matter how long you look at certain aspects of it, something new always comes up. It's a very living case and a living group, and it's very important that we don't see it as a final point in the discussion, and I don't think anyone is going to have a barbecue about it. I'm not going to extend this for a while. Once again, I'm happy for my work. It is a big matter that will require further consideration as time goes on. I hope, in time, people see the amount of waste they make when they always act like foreigners is an automatic burden on society. The economy is little more than a collection of people in economic relations by some means. I am absolutely convinced that the opposition to foreigners, the opposition to having foreigners become more liberal than they are in important matters based on a major misunderstanding, sometimes in pure wickedness, as I have learned, but less often than you would think. I think I'll finish my speech by saying that. We are not to condemn people's views, nor are we to condemn people for being from another country or for wanting to come here, whether they want to flee the war or because they want to be in this country, that's not a bad reason, it's not mean for foreigners to want to come here just because they want to come here. If there is a reason why we want to limit the number, good and good, we limit the number. But we don't do it today. We do this by rules that sometimes take an unrighteous stand on people, and we do so very often entirely, often as unnecessary, many would say at all. I haven't done that statistical work and I don't have the data to appreciate it, but I know we can be more liberal than we are. In my opinion, we should be more liberal than the law is now, as is the time for this bill. But the work has been done well, considering most of the other meetings I've been going through so far. I think there's a reason to celebrate at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u115	A respectable president. I'm here recommending a proposal for a interpretation plan for an equal rights performance plan for 2016's 202019. The proposal is submitted according to Article 11. Refuse the equal status and equal rights of women and men, No. 10/2008. It is based on proposals of counsel, an economist and an equal rights board, as well as on large discussions in the last two equal conventions, such as Article 10. Equal song. The interpretation proposal includes a project designed to achieve the target of the law on equal positions and the equal rights of women and men in Icelandic society. The fourth session was held on November 25, 2015, following the motion of this Department of Social Affairs and Homingal Affairs Report on the status and development of equality issues submitted to the council. A respectable president. In this country we have a formal gender equality. Women and men enjoy legal equality, and compared with what happens in many other countries around the world, in recent decades the stage has been a big step to the same position of the sex in Iceland. There is a significant increase in the number of women in the Generals and in the rural governments of the country. Legal changes have been adopted which is designed to ensure the impact of women in corporate and corporate governments and to strengthen the fight against sexual violence, prostitution, and embargos. Nowhere in the Western world is the proportion of women in the labour market higher than in Iceland. A characteristic of a Icelandic labour market is a highly sex - exchange process. Women and men have different jobs and sexual selections, and the interracial sex exchange continues to be striking. Then, as mentioned earlier, men are above the level of professional power than women. Yet, in recent years the sexes have gathered in pay, and the sex - based difference in pay falls year by year, which is certainly a cause for joy. The situation in the labour market, however, shows that there is still a long way in the area of equality here and in spite of 40 - year - old legislation on equal positions and the equal rights of women and men, sex continues to limit individual freedom. Of course, we can be proud to warm up years after the year at the top of the World Health Organization's list of gender gaps that measures internationally, but it is important to be aware that in the community there is still a power imbalance that is not fully understood in the board's assessment. Many are thus lacking in the field of equality. The proposal I recommend today includes the sixth European Commission performance plan of equality, specifying the highest sex - sex challenge of the government. The schedule will be divided into seven chapters and presented with 21 projects scheduled for the duration of the event. The chapters of the strategy reflect the objective of the government in the field of equality, and it stresses that all government agencies have a role in its implementation. This arrangement is designed to ensure that the priorities and priorities of the government in the fields of equality are clearly expressed. First, I'd like to mention that under a section called the Management Board, it's discussed, including... on the initiative to integrate equality policy-making into all policy decisions and policies in the management system in accordance with equality laws and emphasis on gender economy and budget making. In line with Article 1 and paragraph 17. Justices of equal rights shall be directed by the councils in cooperation with the As Rights Office and under the head of the Ministry shall shape a whole plan for four years for integrating gender and equality policies and decision-making and the institutions of the state. The model of the project is genderd economy and budget. The Control Team is now working on the implementation program for all the Ministry to the next five years. The project shall then be proposed to appoint a team of specialists who regulate the development, implementation and follow-up of Icelandic legislation and the management of equal rights. It is important to consider whether the current laws and the management of equality are in line with international trends and changes in Icelandic society and whether it is time to make changes in existing legislation. The duration of the programme will continue to be carried out and the follow-up of the tasks outlined in the gender remuneration programme, as well as their effectiveness. It is important to ensure the introduction of the equally pay standard, which is a specialist design and to conduct a progressive presentation job on certification of the equally pay system under the Regulation for certification of an enterprise as well as its institutions on the basis of the standard. The plan also provides a special chapter for the first time, chapter F, called Karl and equality. The aim of this chapter is to increase the share of boys and men in all equal work and to see how any policy in the field of equality can better take into account the social status of men. It suggests that there will be a special action group for the implementation of the projects specified in the proposal of a task force that gave its proposal for welfare Ministers in 2013 for men and equality. These include some. to see how men can improve the coordination of responsibility for family and employment, to investigate the impact of surrogate and male ideas on the learning and working of boys, and to mention other factors, that the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of Health and the European Union prepared to implement special initiatives with the aim of increasing men in caring and teaching work on the basis of the implementation of a sex market program. Here, too, you can find emphasis on sex and democracy in a section called Sex and Democracy that considers projects that counter the standard films of the sex in the media that promote the influence of women in the media and films. According to recent research, women and men do not appear in equal proportions in the media, and the picture drawn by women does not reflect the number of them in the political field, in the leading industry, or in the high level of education in Icelandic women. I have no doubt that many members of the council were surprised when they saw figures published at an equal convention on a number of interviews with women and men working at the political scene. We also see that there are reporters and mediamen as well as women in a smaller part of those who make dating decisions in the media, where they are still in a smaller part of the management and the owners of the servers. The programme also places a special focus on education and gender, but chapter E refers to as equal in school work. Special emphasis is given there, however, that equality education will be promoted at all school levels and more emphasis will be placed on equal opportunities for education. Then there is the plan to investigate the status of sex culture in college and to implement an anti-discrimination and standards in the college community. The duration of the programme is also suggested to promote the role of girls and women in sports at the Ministry of Education and Culture. Actions should aim to make women less likely to quit sports practice and become more active players in all sports, which I really don't think will help. The plan also places special emphasis on activities that aim to eliminate sexual violence and violence in close contacts. Sexual violence is a public health problem. It's a social threat. That is something that all of us need to work together to cope with. The consequences for each society are economic, political, social, and health. In order to be successful in extorting sexual violence, it is essential that different professions work together, that problems be diagnosed in the early stages, and the need for governments to work according to precise measures. Then I want to mention in particular G's section about the worldwide work. We have considered that we Icelanders have a significant international international international international obligation. Governments are to support the equality struggle of other nations, especially those who are bent, where the situation is much worse than in this country, the poor of the nations, and especially in those who live in war zones. For example, the United Nations Equal School at the University of Iceland provides us with a project that is useful to students who come from distant countries and gives students the opportunity to increase their understanding and knowledge of the circumstances of women and men and to build up communities in the wake of conflict. Iceland has validated the United Nations Convention on discriminating all discrimination against women and its optional accounts and has encouraged other countries to comply fully with its regulations. The Ministry has had good cooperation with the UN Women's National Committee in Iceland and in 2014, the Council's representative signed a declaration to the United Nations Apprehensitance Convention on Sex Equality and Women's Sovereignty. The Work Programme requires special cooperation on the Environment and Resource Council and the State Department to emphasize the voice of women in climate matters and that measures to integrate equality are included in international agreements on environmental and climate issues. Thus, Icelanders will continue to support international equality campaigns in various ways, especially by being a progressive nation and exemplary in the field of equality and by protecting human rights and developments in the world. A respectable president. I allow myself to suggest that the proposal for a new level of equality will be followed by this discussion referred to. The General and Education Committee and a subsequent discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-01-123.u116	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for her history of proposal for a synopsis of the implementation of an equal rights programme for 2016-2019. I prefer to repeat even more what is discussed in chapter D of sexual violence and violence in close relationships. I would like to remind you that disabled women are, unfortunately, at an increased risk of being violent, both in close relationships and in many other circumstances. This article is not particularly referring to women who are disabled here, since it is a general practice. In fact, this is in their case on page 6. 15 of the report, which I like very much. Of course, general action is to be applied to all women and also to disabled women, but it is sad that when faced with a physical temptation, general requirements will not reach the disabled. In this context, it can be noted that this is also the case. That is why we have a covenant, such as the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disregardable People. In fact, it is not to give disabled people any new rights. Rather, it is to put in context and reiterate their rights. In recent losses, serious cases of violence have made society aware of the violence that disabled people, and perhaps especially disabled women, suffer. So, as nice as this chapter really is, I want to repeat and think that this group must be kept in mind especially. There are all kinds of data, such as a fine report that I previously referred to, which deals with violence against disabled women and their availability for support. This article discusses three ministerial servants'cooperation projects on anti - violence and lists what the task should be. This will discuss increasing training and education within the justice system. It's a good thing, of course, but I'd like to reiterate that it needs to have disabled women in mind, for as shown in response to my inquiry to the Minister of Ministers of the Interior in this General, it is so that according to information from the State Marshal's office, the standard of conduct has not been set up in agreement by the office of police on police response when there is a suspicion of violence against the disabled people. There is no validation of specific work procedures or procedures for action in cases of suspected violence against disabled persons. It is stated that the subject has been established during the police students'basic studies, but the answer to the fact that this group is not being taken very deep. However, it is specifically stated in the answer that the careful preparation of police for reporting is particularly important when it comes to the matter of forming witnesses or defendants with developmental inhibition and, of course, the case of the violent person with developmental inhibition. Finally, referring to the education of judges, it is possible to answer whether any judges have applied to the education of violent offenses against disabled persons but noted that professional advice on reexamined judges did not conduct a special course there. There I think there's a lot of things I have to keep in mind and to keep in mind when doing this cooperation project. This is what I wanted to include in a talk about the subject. I think that's what it's going to be. The minister and our will at the council that the case is well understood, so the social awakening followed by the reports of violence brought on by the disabled women and the coverage of the case at the time of the council. But I'm afraid that if it isn't specifically repeated, it can forget and go courtyards. Sadly, although the general procedures should involve all women, often it is not so. That's my suggestion for this discussion.
