ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u1	The discussions take three rounds, each group ten minutes in the first round, six minutes in the second, and six minutes in the last round. The order of the classes will be this in all traffic: the organization, the Independence Party, the Left moving ◯ green supply, the forward group, the bright future, and the Pirantics. The speakers of the classes will be: For the United States, Páll Árnason, 4th We're out of here. "In the first round, in the second, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, 11th. We're out of here. , and in the third Þorvarðardóttir Körvarddótttir, 5th. Witchest. The members of the Independence Party are Bjarni Benediktsson, secretary of finance and economics, first round, Elín Hirst, 13. We're out of here. "in the second round, but in the third round of Vilhjálmur Árnason, 9th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! For the left movement a quarter green supply, the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir, 3th. Smoke. n., on the first round, Hungundur Jónasson, 8th. We're out of here. "On the second, but on the third round Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, 8th. Witchest. The Prosecutors are first round Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, Prime Minister of the State, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddddddótttir of the 2nd and Elsa Lára Arnardóttir of 6th. Witchest. "In third round. For Birta futures, the first round of Óttarr Proppé, the 11th. Smoke. s., in the second Brynhildur of Pétursdóttir's daughter, 10th. That's the north side. , but on the third round, Róbert Marshall, 6th. Smoke. The path to the program "umount" Pirata's speakers are the Helgi Holy Hrafn Gunnarsson, the 10th. Smoke. n., first round, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, 9th. Smoke. s., second, but third round Birgitta Jónsdóttir, q.m. We're out of here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u2	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. I will now greet you in the spring of spring after a most frequent session. There are elections ahead, and the voters will have a chance to choose between different costs for the future of Iceland. During this season, we as a team have worked to create a community in Iceland where people feel real freedom, regardless of their economy or circumstances, where everyone can be educated where health services are good and cheap and where everyone has a safe roof over their heads. For this is the basis for all prosperity, this is essential to basic operations, increased production, vigorous culture, and good work. We have suggested an increase in child improvement, increase in omissions, better housing with people in average income and low income, decrease in public payment in health care services, and the continued open school for all, regardless of age. We have also suggested that pensioners have the same minimal and ordinary payers as the legal rights of disabled persons. We have suggested that the sector that uses the country's common resources pays for the natural price, for transport and communication to be increased throughout the country, and for its tourists paying for the facilities needed to receive it with security. We've suggested that Iceland offer more refugees welcome. The country we want to build is a place where we celebrate variety and give everyone another chance if anything comes about. The focus of the government has gone in the opposite direction. Child damages and maternity too decays, and fewer and fewer are enjoyed. The same is true of growth improvements. High school opportunities have been limited, and further plans are shown. Even if we are all to bear the risk of such loans, rich people are to be allowed to borrow foreign loans. Resource costs have been reduced, taxes on food, and necessities have been raised, and taxes have been best brought to those who have a minimum among their hands. One factor has been the identification of all government tax changes during this term, and it is that people with less than 250,000 dollars. has always been left behind. If this policy continues, Iceland will be different in ten years. We will then enjoy less general prosperity, more gaps between the rich and all the others, lower levels of education, and increased economic dissociation. Events in the past few months have also shown the importance of changing the rules about the relationship between the public and the prominent business leaders. All of the republics have been well - connected to businessmen because they have enjoyed access to restricted facilities or property. It has now been shown that these best friends have not even been charged with paying taxes on their fathers. This is one reason why there is paid less than there is in neighboring countries. In Iceland, there should be healthy business environments and banks that serve people, not money. The economic focus should be on increasing production, not on creating new bubbles to give chosen ones the opportunity to be enriched. This is a requirement for a higher salary and a better dresser. We cannot live in the long run that people find opportunities in neighboring lands as they do in this country, as has indeed been the past loss despite the economic rise of an area. There's no future for Iceland because schooled people with young children are moving out of the country and we're moving them in from abroad to do low-paying jobs. A respectable president. It matters who rule, but it also matters regardless of who governs that the nation does not give up the crucial authority it has to the government, allowing silence of mismanagement and mismanagement. In this respect, there has been a fundamental change in Icelandic society. It can provide government support and bring forth action and answers. She did so by mass protests in April, and that is why it will be chosen in the fall. That is why the prime minister of Iceland, for the first time in the republic. The country also placed the government in front of the door two years ago when the government wanted to draw Iceland's application to take part in the European Union and break the promise to make such a decision for the nation. Therefore, the government gave up to retract the application, which is why the application is still valid and, therefore, a new body of Parliaments can be suggested with the nation that the thread of Member States will be restarted. This is a new reality. The commission of the next assembly and the next government will be limited, but it has been in recent decades. In the meantime, politics will be adjusted in a way that allows the nation to have a decisive influence on large issues. A respectable president. They show in their surveys that they are impatient and want a clear view of the future. Follow - ups are unprecedented. We in the United States understand the message we've been sent, and that's why this is the last time I address you as chairman of the Union from this platform. We're going to make a game in the fall with a new team plan, armed with the well-proved classic guide, a social vision of the Norse model of responsible, open market economy, individual freedom, economic stability and social justice. We're not going to be a pack without history. We are proud of our achievements in the government of this country at crucial times, and the United States alone has made all the decisions that have been made to put Iceland back on track - whether we were in a government or a government position. We don't swing after the thrill of the crowd, and we don't say one thing today and another tomorrow. We too are well - acquainted with the mistakes we have made, have responded to them, and are therefore less likely to be made to do them again. It's not enough to mean well, if the guide lacks. The equalism is the root of which the Conspiracy draws nourishment and strength. The aim of an equal policy is to use the government in the public service, give all the opportunity, increase the power of people over their lives, support those who have at least a measure of independence, and ensure freedom of the oppression of their fathers, wealth, or State. Unstableness is a threat to policy development, and it is a threat to special interest, for it requires general rules, always and one. It threatens the potential of dominant forces to fit into a position, to salute pleasure friends, and to share power with them. Hence, it has always been, and it is still the desperate counsel of those in power to ask all who threaten the remainder of their situation in the United States. So we take it as a compliment. A respectable president. Most of us have succeeded in coping with the collapse and the aftereffects. The economy is flourishing, and all presupposed for Iceland to have a bright future. However, the politics and national talk outside of this house have been marked by harsh conflicts and fiercer debates. Yet, there has been wide political agreements on the most important decisions since collapse, and we are still working together on good issues. The latest example is a new principle of housing, which hopefully will become a law in the days ahead. We in the United States have long called for measures to resolve this urgent problem. We have often felt that the wait was long, and we still do not think that everything is going far enough. But we're going to be with the labor movement and the government groups for these progressive steps. This example will move all of us to find a new beat in how we talk to each other, for despite all of us, we can get along so much for our own good. Let's resolve to build a better country together. Thank you for winter. Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u3	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. At the end of each assembly, as is the case today, it is customary for us to look back, look back, and ask ourselves, " What have we accomplished? ' There is no doubt that in recent years, we Icelanders have prospered to overcome the crisis and begin a new era of progress and application toward a better lifestyle, on a stronger foundation than most of us could predict when our problems were most soon after the collapse of financial companies. Practically no matter where the situation is, economists tell us that the situation has improved rapidly, and compared with other nations, the Icelanders have been able to improve their standard of living faster than in the general population in other countries. National forecasting has just arrived, with further predictions of increase in money gain still ahead of what was expected in the current year. It is predicted that lower inflation and more economic growth have been achieved so far. This may be the case, the homes'debt has declined rapidly during this most ideal period and is now under the standards we have seen since the turn of the century, the debt of the households above is in the lowest values since the turn of the century. Of course, that does not mean that in this society there are not many people who are struggling to make ends meet. The only thing that tells us is that there are more people who are in a better position than they were before and still waiting for us to do our job to improve the situation of those who still do not have enough in spite of growth, despite more money money, in spite of higher wages, in order to reach their goals in life. Special delight must bring us a very rapid improvement in the status of a government fund that has been thrown out in the past few years. State funds are rapidly dropping. Last year, we paid up about 10% of the government's debt and set out to do the same thing this year. In the years to come, the state's debts go down to the debt that we have recently approved at the council and become internationally competitive, which is the basis for Iceland's having the best possible angle on loans. All of these are signs that we have made rapid progress. We have managed to cope successfully with financial hardships for the sake of our Kingdom treasure, our homes, and our business life. In particular, I am referring to the results of the last labour contracts, that the level of salary has not increased as rapidly as in the last 12 months since the start of the tests. It's increased by 11%. I think there is reason to point out that such a huge increase in salary is not something that we in general can discuss at the council for granted. In fact, we've been able to improve the state of the households at high rates, especially in this respect, with a very high pay raise during the last cycle, that there is reason to note that equal amounts of money cannot be taken out at the same short time each year. That's not possible. The production in the country must grow evenly, and we will not be able to increase the production in the country by 10◯12%. This does not mean, however, that we cannot defend the success that has been achieved. I believe that in increasing numbers the discussion of the government and the workforce has to turn to the future how we can protect our current efforts and the success that we have achieved with that parish. How can we ensure that in the coming year, there will continue to be a better standard for future earners of the country's living on a permanent basis with a good response? Then perhaps we have come to the core of the affairs and problems of the government of the United States over the decades. There has been a lack of better trust between the labour market and the government, and perhaps not just trust but a better coordination between what is going on in the field of the council, the State, the local government, and the workforce that is stressed. At present, there is a need to review from the foundation the workforce to ensure that, for example, the workforce has worked until now. Public employees will pay insurance so that the pay sheet in general will also be transferred to public employees without having to come to strike and major battles in the labour market each time they have to negotiate. In this regard it is also important that public employees can assume that their pension rights are the same as in general markets and vice versa, that in general markets, pension rights, basic rights are being guaranteed in the same way as those of public employees. These big, important matters are in the dough now. We have a conversation about this very issue right now, and we are in it, together with the rest of the council during this term, to lay down the foundation I have here called attention to the need to be there for a better stability for a long time. Time and again, we Icelanders behave too much like a hunting nation, we seize what is available in our time, and we hope for the best for the future. Now I'm going to say, after the growth that has been for employment, for the money of the state, and especially for homes: We can't keep up with this speech at the council, that there will be so much progress year after year because there is no real basis for this. We can say, however, that this success can be protected and continued to progress if fundamental changes are made, such as the changes we have made in public finance with new laws on public finances. Good citizens of the country. The task ahead is not merely a matter of communication with the government and the workforce; it is particularly a matter of starting in the light of the improved state's position to press forward with full force to strengthen the infrastructure. In recent years, we have reduced public investments, reduced production of various types, but it is now proposed in a long - term budget of financial reforms. We know we have too many alone bridges. We know we need to complete the building of a new hospital. We know that many of the public projects are needed, but we also know that the public support systems that we are going to fund are wide holes, cracks that are still falling down on. We know, for example. that older citizens share too much dental expenses, far beyond what we promised. By means of a new system of payment now being discussed at the council, the load is fairly divided. We are not going to accept that individuals who seek health care in Iceland, which we say is cost by government, at the same time millions of costs or costs per year up to hundreds of thousands of dollars. We are not going to accept this, so it is the case, but at the same time, we know that it is desirable to continue to reduce patient payment. The same is true in other areas. We can look at drugs. These are just a few examples that I mention about areas where we can come forward with a much stronger position than we have so far enjoyed. It is time to plan long - term things to do better in all these areas. A respectable president. At the end of my talk, I'm going to allow myself to wonder if we senators are not allowed to listen again, not give us in advance what it is that people want us to accept but really ask us what it is that the people call after we go to the council. It is unlikely to remember that the European Commission's president stated why trust would drift away from the European Union that the European Union has become too divided by people's daily lives. Maybe we're doing too much at the council, maybe we're completely self-involved. I don't think the program meeting director who has taken a lot of time during this council, as in the past, has contributed much to the nation. In the leading of an election, we do not stop to ask ourselves, " Do I listen properly? ' To say that, I wish the people of the land a joyous summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u4	Mr. President. Good Icelanders. It was on such a beautiful spring day about two decades ago that I went out in the summer of our new student school at D.C., plus 170 of my peers. We were confident that the future was ours. As I look at the 20 - year - old student's film, optimism shines out of each face, although, of course, our destiny has changed in different ways and life has become different. However, belief in the future was certainly present in these 170 faces. I wondered how the new students we see around town now feel as they read in the news that the average young people in Iceland have got worse, both compared to other groups in our community today, but also compared to young people's vote for a decade ago. This is to be thought - provoking, for it is in the people of the future, and it is about the future that we are supposed to be talking about tonight. When we look back at Iceland's history in the 20th century, it's about a great deal of victories. Society and professional life based on incredible short periods of time. It is appropriate to remember that this year we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Allied Union of Iceland, remembering the victories the Icelandic labor movement has won, social security, shortening the hours, contract rights, just to name something. At the same time, much worked in the building of society's well - being, health care, education systems, women had the right to vote, they were on maternity vacations, and so on. None of this won without the struggle of people who wanted to work for the greater good. And there was always enough to contradict the reforms. There were always plenty that no change would make. Our lives and jobs in Iceland are the result of the struggles of the previous generations. We owe them a lot. Society never stands still, that is, in the process of eternal development. After rapid changes at the beginning of this century, the privatization of banks, the simple system of regulations and the structure of financial systems that most of Icelands were like a hidden world, 2008 collapses of poemkins were removed from a single week. Today, eight years later, after the great work of many, especially the public, who took on increased burdens and difficulties, the nation's economic prospects are brighter than ever. That's good, and we Icelanders can thank ourselves. We can also thank the error that even brought us. mackerel and tourists in times of need and have helped us out of the valley. Then it is reasonable to ask: Are not all rejoicing and swaddling? No, not all are happy and tore up a better economic era if the majority of people in the country are not allowed to enjoy this brighter time and test their own selfish, unjust system of things that does not treat all alike. The revelations of Panama's documents have provided us with a tangible reminder that the financial system built up before the collapse of the Neo-liberal forces, existing government groups, survived the collapse. In this country, there are a small group of people who shared in making use of societies in taxes to save their money. These communities do not agree with the rules that we place our own business life and agree to the International Assembly of the Icelanders. The revelations of Panama's documents have shown us in a tangible way the discrepancies in society, how some people have funds they can use to play in a different playground than the rest of us. The Panama documents revealed to us that there are two countries in Iceland. Better economic times are not enough if we dare not attack the root causes of this conflict. You see, Mr. President, in all parts of the world, people are waking up to the fact that the world's richest 1% has more than 99%. In Iceland, people are becoming aware that it is not normal for the richest 10% to have almost 3/4 of all wealth in Iceland, since the mismatch is not a product of proficiency or appreciation for the richest. It rests on the fact that in the West, a system has been built that attracts the richest and downplaying intermediate and low income groups. It has been e.g. tax change, increased expenditures for basic services such as health care and education, private business and privatization of public services and changes to the financial system, changes often achieved by pressure from less than rich interests groups. It's this system that creates discrepancies at the expense of public interest. And it is the same system that creates differences between parts of the world, economic use of resources, climate problems, and wars, so some parts of the world are far more sensitive to conflicts and disasters than others. It is this system that makes it impossible for others to have been on the run since the end of World War II. It is this system that makes it possible that even in our land, about 48% of homes are finding it difficult to make ends meet. It is this system that makes it possible that even in our land, there are about 6,100 children suffering in want. This system can be changed if we want and dare. But this requires a new government that accepts the fact that our resources are our share, and it is only natural for those who are allowed to use them to pay a natural price for it. It takes a government to admit that the tax system should be used to level the cost, both income and money. It takes a government that doesn't add tax on underpayers by raising the value tax on food, but a map where to find the funds and taxpaying them, rather than by stretching into the pocket of employees in Iceland. As we coexist in the circumstances of people, because these incomes can make a difference in our joint work; new Landsports, health-free systems, college and research, high school for all, disability - grading conditions, and anthropological pensions so that people can live a good life of their income and share in the labour market and community for as long as their minds are concerned, the community, and so for their own benefit. It takes a government to use the growth and benefit of public interest. One study after another around the world shows that the cut-off policy on which the current government's budget is based will result in more harm than benefits. It takes a powerful basic service and an even greater equation to ensure the prosperity of the public and the general prosperity, for which not only is justice but also an economic argument. It requires a government ready to revise the financial system, separate investment and business banking, and provide an environment for society banks whose objectives are different from those of shareholders only, to create environmental reasons, based on cognition and gender. A government that wishes to develop university and research, innovation and knowledge industry, guarantees all appropriate education and acceptable public health systems so that poor people, in this rich country on which we live, will not have to pay off the necessary health care. A government that ensures the advancement of all living things in Iceland, which is working to eradicate the lack and poverty of society. A government that stresses the elimination of man traders and modern slaves, is prepared to fight sex pay wherever it appears, to take real action against sexual violence, and is ready to put money into it. A government that ensures the greater power of the public and recognizes the demand for greater participation in the public in all decisions. A government government government to revise the Constitution so that it will be the true constitution of the people. It requires a government that ensures that everyone in Iceland sits at the same table, enjoys the same instruments, and is working with the international community on an even larger scale and meets international challenges by walking ahead with a good example. My fellow Americans. The lives of the generations that preceded us are the history of us today, and our lives will be the history of those who come into the world today. What questions will they ask as they look back? Did it succeed in protecting the Middle East from future generations? Did it succeed in ensuring restricted health care? Was it determined to strengthen education and research for the future? Were microorganisms advising a person's approval, or did society feel that they were properly scraping below all forward goals? Did we open our arms to refugees, or did we perhaps build up invisible fences and dismiss people who were willing to put everything into building up their lives in harmony with society? Was a community built after the collapse, where everyone was guaranteed to live with dignity? Or was there a policy of cuts to make sure that the richest kept as much money as possible? Was there a society in which democracy was increased to ensure that most people's voices had an impact? Or was there a battle against any system change to make sure that most people did not? Was the financial system revised in the interests of society and employment? Were radical measures taken against climate change for future generations? Was it working on sexual equality, so that the sex no longer matters for the pay? Was there a rich society or an equal society? My fellow Americans. It is up to us to decide what this story will be, what a young person's story will be, and now he must decide what his future will be. There's a clear choice. Together we can build a healthy society, a green society, a good society, an equal society. That's what the next election will be. There we can choose all these benefits in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u5	A respectable president. The good people of the country. Now spring is in the air, and the people look to the optimism of the coming summer. As we sit at the General Assembly, we have the goal of improving the country's standard of living at the same time that we make sure that we do not go too far, avoid rock concrete, and thus thwart the success that may have been achieved. Our ideas about how the nation's terms will be improved differ in many aspects, all of which indicate the same, but of course, the nation that controls any idea or course is set at any given time. The results and positions can be measured in a variety of ways. One way is by applying economic standards. Friday's cover of Iceland's Haguems Office was seen on the site three days earlier. It's interesting to stop at them. The first is the remuneration rate that has increased by 13.4% over the last 12 months. One is the labour market showing that the annual corrected unemployment rate was 3.7% in April, at least in Europe. The third report is of land production estimated to increase by 4.3% this year, one of the highest among control nations. The fourth report is of the index of consumer prices, i.e. inusitis. It shows that during the last 12 months, it increased by 1.7%. The new registration of the partner is next, but during the past 12 months, the number of the new registrations of the individual components has increased by 16% compared to the previous 12 months. The sixth and final reports of a number of sleepers increased by less than 30% in April of the first year. The forward - district government and the Independence Party have now been ruling for three years. It's interesting to see what's happened back then. First, there was the largest election case the government started with, which was that of those who were in debt to their insurance mortgages and who had undergone a severe economic collapse. The debt of the country's households was over the last year estimated 177% of the provisions, a ratio similar to that of the turn of the century. The commitments of the households decreased to a real value of less than 5% in 2015. The decrease in debt is attributed to increased national production but also to a substantial decrease in the value of a debt, which is largely due to the government's action to reduce the head of the most secure mortgage. At the same time that the public debt has dropped, the cost of buying has increased by a quarter in those three years and has never been greater. The State Fund's situation has greatly improved, especially as a result of a successful government plan on execution and the handling of the swellingers of fallen banks. In the United States, inflation is low, and unemployment is negligible. Yeah, let's do who's got it. Good citizens of the country. Over the past few weeks, efforts at the General Assembly have been successful, and many national customs have progressed. Key elements on the new housing arrangements have been developed in good cooperation with government and government opposition and will be expected to act as law in the coming days. In particular, I would like to give you a bill on a general apartment where governments have joined together with the labour market partners and the rurals to secure the most efficient homes in a new social application system. There have also been new issues, one of which is a bill on the overall view of the law of the Icelandic Board of Students that was introduced last week that further supports our vision of the future to reduce domestic debt. With a new arrangement, students can strengthen their ability to complete their degree of testing without burdensome academic debts. But for such bills to be able to deal with, the government of government must be in a way that the people can afford them. For financial matters to be acceptable, firmness and stability are needed. The firmness and stability have marked the last three years of government history. During the first part of the terms of the season, the government would be able to cover the government's expenses and thus lay the groundwork for what is happening today. Then the foundation was laid for what the nation is now reaping. To do so, we needed boldness but, above all, faith that our own destiny was in our own hands. Now, of course, people can debate the extent to which a part of an economic situation is responsible for the government. It would be quite presumptuous to thank the government for all that has happened and benefited, but at the same time that people blame her for what is not right, they may also acknowledge her fine works, at least to some extent. However, it is the General Assembly that establishes the legal process. More often than not, members of the Parliament agree on the issues facing land and nation. In confirmation of this, the current legislation of legislation has been adopted on the Generals 55 Web site. They have been agreed in total with 2,199 votes. There are only 40 of these. There are 25 no rules in the same case. The ratio is 1.8 no to every 100 yess. This would indicate that harmony and reasonableness are more common in the halls of the Generals than you might expect. Good citizens of the country. In recent times, we have found things to be practical. Many conditions, both external and internal, are favorable and give them good promises for the future. When a private government was formed, it was reported that certain matters had to be completed that were well along. The most outstanding issue ever held over our heads is emissions. Now means that they can be removed according to the schedule decided to work afterwards and introduced in June last year. Plans to go will be gone by the end of the year. If the decision had been made to enter our election, it might have been delayed for up to two years. I believe most reasonable men see that it was simply not available. Eight years within the budget is eight years too many in modern society. I'd like to mention another matter, but it's about to finance the real estate of individuals. This summer's work will be done to finish it and put forth effort when a council meets again. If it became evident that one of the largest progressive steps was to be taken in the financing of an apartment building. A respectable president. Even if one matter is over, hopefully, we'll have another. Government work never ends. Politicians must do better today than yesterday and that this government will continue to work here until now. The work ahead is to ensure the well - being of everyone and to strengthen the interiors of all the cases throughout the country. The sentence of the voters on the work of the government will soon be passed. It was promised when the government began its election when certain matters were over. Nothing has changed in this regard. Good citizens of the country. It looks good today and the next few days. With such weather and unusual economic prospects, you cannot help but enjoy a summer convention. - Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u6	Mr. President. ástkær fellows. We are gathered here at the end of the council. It is said that in the Middle East, you are saying: "If you live an interesting time. " Well, we've had that wish for the winter. Today, Iceland and I are at a turning point, and that is especially true of Icelandic politics. Let's be honest. The current weather has been a disaster. It's the only word. The exposés of Panama documents, the interview with the former prime minister, the resignation of Prime Ministers, and all that few had a profound effect, not just on politics, but on all of us Icelanders. People had just begun to take their breath after the 2008 economic collapse, showing that the basic users proved to be inhabited in many ways by sand. We believed and sincerely hoped that we would get to our feet, that we would learn from this mistake. But the lights of Panama were like a blow to the stomach. They confirmed that there was a higher moral breakdown in Icelandic society than was implied. They confirmed that there are still two nations in that land. Those who are privileged to have authority, privileges, opportunities, and then all of them. Advertising the link between politicians to the questionable business practices of an African society and knowingly keeping those connections was impossible for them to swallow. No, it's completely unacceptable. This is simply not honest. Little wonder that society has gone upside down and the political life remains paralyzed! The world's TV lights are still turning toward Iceland, and you feel that the world around us feels that our country is in a deep crisis. One of the first things you hear when you say you're from Iceland is questions about the Panamas. This won't be over. You can't wait for this situation to happen and hope it will fit in. They need to be handled in a decisive way. The decision to speed up elections was good and probably inevitable. In a short future, we agreed on the requirement to vote immediately but had confidence that it will be at least elections in the fall. It is not just a need for a new request and/or a review that requires hurrying elections, the conversation with the public that needs to take place cannot wait. The job at the council has been fine for the past few weeks. The new emphasis and primes against taxes and societies are important but, unfortunately, a reminder that they had not appeared until after these revelations. A few weeks ago, I met a German presswoman who asked me right out, in a loose translation, by permission of a president: It has now been shown that there are more Icelanders in the Panamas than there are in any other country on the appeal number. Do you feel that Iceland is a more dishonest society than anyone else? I'll just admit that this question really hit me. She did so because I experience the Icelanders as a group of honest and just people. But there is no way to ignore the fact that there is something wrong with us. Those numbers don't lie. We need to acknowledge this, and we need to deal with it. You see, in so many ways, a community is great. Iceland is a country of natural resources. The nation is dynamic and essentially optimistic. We do so in many ways. However, the last few months have revealed that there is a problem with the camera. Roads, such as increased tourism, mackerel, and low oil prices, have contributed to the restoration of the economy. But you can't rely on the lottery all the time. There's more to it than that. Let's use the lesson from the Panamas to change. Change the system where it's not working. Build on what works and do it even better. Times of efficiency and long - suffering are over. It's been given a chance. It just hasn't worked out. Young people are the future. I have a vision that young people have the opportunity to educate themselves, so that they can have their own housing and see for themselves a variety of, creative, and suitable for the future. This is what we have in the bright future put emphasis on our work and will continue to fight for it. Sometimes it is said that we inherit the earth from our ancestors. I mean, we're no less, and even much more, borrowing it from future generations. This is certainly true of nature. But this also applies to society all, the economy, and the human life. Justice and transparency are baseline values that are important for society today, but they are absolutely essential to the future. We need courage to recognize the problem and courage to deal with it. We need a vision of an honest and just, liberal society that allows for the power and opportunities of all but not just some. We need to make sure that our common resources benefit from our community, not just some of them. We must have the courage to think about the future, not just to fix up on what once happened and then to hope that it will be successful. Controversy with this vision and basic values cannot wait. I believe in it, and I hope that it is possible to build on the basis of what is good in a modern society. This trip just started. And to those in the political field, I say, "Have the courage to have a vision of the future and to take an open conversation about it. " Let's stay open. Let us be transparent, and above all, be honest. There is simply no other choice. - I thank those who obeyed. Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u7	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. I've been at the Council for three years now, and that's been a hell of a lot of time. There are many things you learn about heaven and earth. I find it easier now than before to explain to people all sorts of subjects the smells of things. I can better explain the role of various institutions and so forth the vices, judicial cases, and the activities of various institutions. I know how to look up Congress documents and look for information, so I can often shed light on a subject that others may find hard to find. But there is one thing that I find harder and harder to explain, and that's politics itself, not politics, but this phenomenon - politics - politics that doesn't seem to learn. I see many problems more clearly, and I even believe that most of them have come to know the answer. I could hold a long fistula about what needs to be done in democratic reforms and reforms at the council. And then I'm reminded of something like the leak thing. Yes, after a year's power action and the confession of an assistant, that happened to be the time for the highest power. The Minister of the Interior Minister was to be sworn in, but it remains as an alleged political persecution experienced by poor so - called then minister. On the move, the politics kept going without learning. Then the Panamas recently arrived. Yes, by unprecedented protests outside the General Assembly, there was a shock at the present time at the highest level. Prime Minister, from the rest of the days, the government of its own pasturage. And continued the politics without learning. A national bill of change of constitution was to be held along the election, but it did not. Previously, an attempt had been made to cut off the European Union without a council and much less a nation where it could be seen that a greater proportion of the people would not be able to convince the national right to end the process. And continued the politics without learning. Even without necessary democracies, I ask myself, " How can this be? ' Now they say we should vote for the Council in the fall. I'm being asked regularly if I believe that. I'd like to believe that, not because we've been praying for elections in the fall, but because I hope one more promise will not be betrayed, one more power action and the voters once more give the finger, all for power. As much as I'd like to believe it, when I hear the speakers of the administrative body claim that in the fall, I can't quite believe it. People I like, people I think I should believe; I'm the first to let others enjoy the doubt. But if I said that I'd be chosen in the fall, I'd be lying to myself and to others because I'm a long way from being sure; my experience will teach me something else. A respectable president. I listen to myself and find myself bored in myself, and I'm sure there are members of the council who are bored with him too. But what I'm getting even more bored is knowing that it would be irresponsible not to keep him out of the way because Icelandic political bitch seems to be limited; politicians are willing to go around trying to keep their way. That's the only pattern I've ever seen in all this bullshit, power greed. This is not a disagreement on political issues, a respectable president, this is politics itself. This cannot be explained as different categories of people with different priorities. This is a question of the government's view of authority. Power that requires restraint, not just courage and perseverance. I've kept many thistles on the necessity of democracies in this fine, respectable President, and I'm on it. But politicians should also consider their own role. I hope that in the coming elections, there will continue to be demand for changes that challenge this power and will lead the way where it belongs, to the nation of its own. That would be a lesson to learn.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u8	Good Icelanders. In the latter part of this winter, much has gone on. The Panama documents saw the light of the day, and they showed us black on the white as we have climbed, that two nations live in the land. Another large part of the nation makes great efforts to make ends meet and to make and its beautiful and secure home. The chief of the Icelanders knows this toil. Icelandic interest loans, usually insurance, high prices, high remuneration in public service, so little if anything remains at the end of the month. Then there is the other people, who are not large but who simply live in a completely different reality. It is with a beige, has access to people, and has money that the rest of us do not have, accepts foreign loans in far more favorable terms than others can ever dream of. Some even take their money to safety from the Icelandic tax authorities. The same can be said of the companies in the country, the same pattern in a similar proportion, making a slightly ambiguous competition among Icelandic companies. Most of us don't want it like this. I think most of us want people to be good at it in Iceland, even make a little money. There is nothing wrong with making a good living, but at the same time, we want the opportunities for it to be equal, not for groups receiving special treatment. We want the same opportunity to invest when stock is offered in our small country. We want to see that when companies are sold out of financial institutions, the process of sales is clear and that everyone has every chance to invest. Only then will the government and the commercial life begin to work in the spirit of transparency and clarity in a course that we can expect trust to be restored to the community. Dear Icelanders, except for the Panama papers and the exchanges associated with them, little has happened during this council, and during the election season, if that is to be changed. Few people who have a broad influence enter the council and are granted the money, since the government groups do not seem to agree on basics. I'm sorry, there's plenty of work to be taken. I'd like to look at us here in this discussion at one of the members of the community that we associated with are deeply concerned about. They're young people. It would be best to call the forgotten generation. This is the group facing the fact that high school is starving. This is the group facing the need for extra funding. He is faced with the fact that the college is being run on the hour-runners at the lice. The education loans are too low, and now the government is going to increase the interest, shorten the reimbursement period, thereby adding the payoffs. What effect will it have if the government plans succeed in eliminating income ties before e.g. Five - year - old high school teacher on the back? These are the big questions we now face from this government. In their housing situation, young people find that there is a huge amount of housing, a high - volume housing price for those planning to invest, and a growing bonus. This government does not believe in support because of the purchases or rents. The maximum pay of maternity has been replaced throughout this ideal period, leading to the reduced number of men taking the ore, the number of births to 1.9 per woman as we need 2.1 births in order to maintain the community. Who will continue to live up to the community when our generations retire? Those who have children, though, will pay their heavenly dues on top of the rest. An example of the reality of an Icelandic, young family in Kópavogi: Two children at a nursery school are about 60,000 k. On top of it comes a rent on a four - room apartment in the range of $200,000.400,000. Then there is not much left in the home of a young family. It tells itself that the farm is narrow. In a good discussion as a matter of course. paritaprevir During the day, Ólafsdóttir was well considered how the income of the youngest age groups in Iceland has increased to a minimum. They have not been able to cope with their pay development. This is a concern because when you take everything together, young people are under pressure in this country, and the opportunity to get a roof over their heads is high. At the top of this, these young people do not have enough income to increase in the rhythm of general pay development. My dear Icelanders. The politics must begin to focus on this. To invest in our young people, we must turn aside from this path, look at all their expenses, and the resources they live in. We need to open high school again, make sure he gets his money. We're supposed to take up the scholarship to make advancement at a university level, but we're supposed to be very careful about paying back the money we're paying off. My dear Icelanders. We also need to take broad measures to ensure that inexpensive rented areas, as well as intensive rent support and housing costs, are inexpensive. To improve the interests of the young generation, we also need to increase the maximum dues, extend the ores, and pay taxes against high school fees. We need to look to the money policy that this government has completely neglected and will pay us the high cost of loans facing young people in the house market today. My dear Icelanders. The next election has to be about this forgotten generation, and I challenge you all in this room to take over its affairs, to get us out of those bitter pits and past jackets, and invest in the future. - Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u9	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. I'd like to discuss three of you here tonight. First of all, honesty and trust in politics. Second, the status and future of the health system. And finally, the reality of the political debate is completely changed, where the common people can present their views in a simple and quick way. First to integrity and trust in politics. It takes a long time to build trust, but trust can also be lost in a moment of failure. Iceland and I are still dealing with the aftereffects of the disaster, which undermined confidence in various major community institutions. That is why many long - suffering, long - suffering, often lack confidence. By their actions and attitude, men earn trust. That is why it is very important for us politicians to act openly, to be diligent in communicating information, to speak in English, and, above all, to listen to other people's voices. I believe that if people here at the General Assembly follow their convictions, they show integrity in their relations both inside and outside the council and in their own private life, people appreciate them, and they feel a sense of trust. Opinions are a normal part of the politics and order us into different categories or divisions. However, it is beneficial to communicate in a healthy way for all people to communicate. It is beneficial for all to hear as many evidence as possible before coming to a conclusion on complex issues. It faced us Icelanders and actually the whole world at the beginning of April when so - called Panama documents were published that things in the economy are not working. Thus, it was a fine step recently on the part of a minister of finance that presented a variety of measures to ensure that all sit at the same table when it comes to paying taxes. These are measures that take into account both the national government and international cooperation among the world's major nations. Public interests are high so that the rules of the game are clear and everyone sits at the same table. Selling government assets, public property, both banks and other property from the fallen banks we have at our next loss must be open and transparent and above all doubt. Good citizens of the country. It is clear that our health - care system has been starving, and it will take considerable time by means of structure before we can say that we have an excellent quality of care. But the course to my judgment is a strong one, and the present government has certainly shown this by its actions. The rebuilding of the Land Hospital at the Ring Course is under way. This is without doubt the most important step toward serious health benefits. It is also important to think about the future and that perhaps the best arrangement will become the land hospital primarily an emergency hospital. If, as previously said, we think about the future that there will be set up here another modern Hospital, which is primarily orthopaedic and rehabilitation hospitals, a hospital that would be much more practical in business than it would be, and is going to an emergency hospital, both after an accident and general illness. I'd like to mention, though, that raising funds is one thing, improving health care is another thing, and as soon as we put more money into medical care than ever before, we must have the courage to take up the debate on the management and effectiveness of our institutions. Good citizens of the country. We live in another kind of democracy but only a few years ago. Technology has made it possible for each person to express himself in simple and inexpensive terms in real times. Voices are many, and they can certainly have a good effect on our society, and when they are united in a positive force, such as in Kári Stefánsson for health care, it is very good. I believe, though, that this fact does not change the basic nature of politics. Someone needs to be in charge. On the other hand, there is no doubt that the environment of those who govern the land is far more diverse than ever. The development of democracies in the pursuit of citizens so that they can contribute to a democratic debate is certainly good. In a world that becomes ever more complex, it must be very valuable for politics to hear as much views and to use the information flow as a means of finding solutions to complex issues. Whether in tourism, in contact with nature, in sales of state property, in the development of the health system or in the building up of the building system. I would also have in this relationship to see that we achieve a unit on the implementation of national regulations in Iceland during this season, such as minimal participation and how much of the results are needed to be valid. Good citizens of the country. The future is bright for us Icelanders. We can all rejoice in that. We too must be careful, reasonable, and helpful to those in need.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u10	Good listeners. In the few minutes of my choice, I would like to say that there's more politics in this room. More politics left. If the work of government opposition was to be fought solely against the ruling governments, we would have a natural government. On the first day, she dropped her hunting fees. On the second day, she slaughtered the wealth tax and started flirting with her privateization. Then all of this came off like an assembly. Of course, this is not an option. Commenting on this, British editors of the issue magazine Private Eye occur after a recent election in Britain in the late 1970's, after which the traditional Party had won a great victory. The editor presented the election's results as heavenly deliveries for his magazine. But he added that as a social worker, he was, of course, devastated. Of course, we would like to have only a case that we all consider to be national agreements, to be fair, to be fair, to be accepted as members of our society. It is true that this applies to many of the activities of the General Assembly. I've been joking, and I've also sometimes seriously said that if from every senator's brain program, there would be a lot easier to resolve, and perhaps more often, things would be solved. In fact, the linking between marriages can be a barrier. But life is not quite that simple outside the door, nor can it be in this room. In the community, not just here but in the whole world, it's a success of interests. Groups, classes, and states succeed. Some would like to put it into practice so that human consumerism can deal with the interests of the mother of the earth. This conflict depends on political goals, money freedom, socialism, i.e. Right course and left course. This is not an out - of - date exchange, as some claim politics should merely be about a cup of coffee. Admittedly, a financial conversation is needed and therefore over a cup of coffee. But voters need to know what the real plans of political organizations are. Thus, the Independence Party has recently received support from many who do not want to open the health system because the category has deliberately spoken inconsistencies about this unpopular matter for elections. Do politicians want to sell all the banks, or do they want community banks? Is that serious? What about the greeting system? Surely, that system will not be given up to change. And what about the health system? There, real interests succeed. It is really a start to pump money in the health - care system. Of course, we pay all of this, whether as taxpayers or as patients. Some of us will be able to pay, others won't, and that's how it's gonna be. System as discrimination. Do people want marketism in the health system or want to be socialistic? Do men want rights or want left men? A fine man wrote to me after I published a fistula in the Morning Press this weekend on the customs contracts that open to the huge import of meat products. I referred there to the work force's declarations, which warn of the consequences of the Icelandic food industry. One writer said that I would have to check that frontal vision is a interest - related organization. Of course you're right. Jobs are interests, and it is also good to protect the resources that are disease free from farming and healthy domestic food production. And somewhere in this interest fight, the big business chains come, the same ones who want these halls banned by law that alcohol can be sold to non-employers in their stores. Does it seem that it is not someone's best to reduce construction requirements, access, and sunlight to a poor tenet? Of course, there are interests everywhere. You see, politicalism is a stand for conflict of interests. Another is the subject of professional subjects. As soon as we get out of this room a political fight, we don't have much more business here. I ask: Do people want to be in agreement with Donald Trump who could be the next president of the United States or Hillary Clinton, who is a hard-linton in foreign affairs? These are the next leaders of NATO, the military alliance recently approved by the Allied Council to remain the cornerstone of Icelandic security policy. I claim that NATO is the most dangerous security of Iceland than ever but still threatens our present government because we're even closer to this coalition. This alone is enough to want a new government after the election's over. So, of course, I'm always happy when the next conversation in this hall is about a subject that we should be able to join together in. We need to be united in the battle for Iceland and its fragile and rare nature. Here we all know what is meant, and there we are certainly having disagreements about something. But now at the end, I ask: Shouldn't we be united in ensuring our common holding on the Glacion and The Beasts of the Multitudes and thus becoming the challenges of people of all political groups, of all professions, and of all age groups? This challenge is real. It's for black and white. It's our turn to her. - Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u11	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. About 40 of you. Icelanders live abroad. They live around the world and have expanded their horizons by acquiring experience and education in other communities. All of this is probably modern, probably desirable, but it also places a great deal of responsibility on politicians. It is one of our most important community projects that these and others who have decided to visit the world choose to return to their homeland after a foreign stay, that Iceland will become a competitive society, and a well - paying job will be offered where quality of life will remain among the best ones and that people will feel comfortable. Such a community will be based only on solid foundations, stable and strong economic systems, flourishing urban and commercial life and responsible financial management. In this respect, much has been achieved during the term. The interests of Icelandic households have greatly improved, and according to the analysis of Iceland's Central Bank, their situation has rarely been better. The debt has been made for the better in a few years, and the debt has not been reduced since 1999. The largest part of the debt is due to the correction, the government's operation to reduce the head position of the price-settling mortgage and high economic growth. In the past three years, there has been an increase of almost 24% in the financial resources of the donor. The number of jobs has increased rapidly and unemployment is at least in Europe. The nation's clean foreign position in which the contour has been reversed has been completely converted. The situation hasn't been better in 50 years. We are now joined by the British and the French, who were formerly classed with Greece and Cyprus. There's a difference between equations. In this game, successful landings in the affairs of the worn - out population of fallen financial companies were key. It marked a turning point in the restoration of the financial system and laid the basis for what has been achieved. At the beginning of that work, many questioned the ideas of the forward movement that the demands of the goats gave away hundreds of billions. It is now obvious that the state's situation has improved dramatically, has already fallen substantially, and will continue to decrease in the years ahead. This unique position is not created by itself. Rather, it reflects the firm and policy the government has worked for. It has been prepared for the future, for the Kingdom's interest payments will decrease by tens of billions. In this success, we must never forget those who are facing adversity and who cannot take advantage of opportunities that others have. We should continue to improve their interests and continue to make use of the economic means for health and health care. Good citizens of the country. Work for the past few years aims to improve the interests of the people of the country in the present and in the future. We want a person to be able to obtain a suitable education and to cover his head with no excessive debt. Together we want to contribute to a variety of employment conditions, where new jobs thrive together with traditional ones. The Icelandic software industry is an example of such a trade. Indeed, the economy has grown to the pine, slowly, and quietly as it becomes the fourth support of our export in addition to the fishing road, industry, and tourism. The 2009 export of imagination was about 160 billion dollars. Last year, they were about 250 billion dollars. By that time, about 60% had grown in six years. It is urgent that governments continue to strengthen the construction of innovation, development, and research, and within which a body of Congress can contribute immediately in the next few days by agreeing to an existing bill that changes the environment of innovation and smaller companies for the better. The bill is designed to increase the variety of industry and to help pioneers and other creative people choose to work and live in Iceland. Good citizens of the country. This morning, I visited my old elementary school, Freinley School, which was my second home for ten years. There I shared in exposing the language rainbow, an art of art, which underscores the fact that children in school speak 23 different languages. They have different backgrounds, but they work together in a beautiful school society so that different abilities can be enjoyed. It is not easy for you to feel responsible for meeting these remarkable young people. I believe their future and other Icelanders are bright. Economic development is largely over in Iceland and the standard of living has improved considerably. Iceland has strong cards, but our job is to play them right so that no social group will remain behind. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u12	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. I'd like to talk about the environment here tonight. Although there's a lot of consciousness going on, I don't feel that this group of subjects is still getting the full attention he deserves. Every month we hear of a warm - up record on the earth. hurricanes are more frequent, rising heat waves, rising tides, and threatening communities like Maldive Islands, where all residents may simply have to flee their homes. The latest news was that more than one third of the reef's northern and central corals in Australia are dead, and this is thought to be due to climate change. Then there are many environmental problems that we face that do not necessarily have anything to do with climate change. We are dependent on the limited resources found in the earth, with appeal and greed, and doubtless also lack of knowledge, as many species are extinct and many are endangered. We're going to fall forests. We make room for farms, including. to grow food for animals, or food that, on an excessive scale, ends in the garbage somewhere on the trip from a field to the consumer. We use the poisons of culture as if nothing for granted - all in the name of increased conveniences for a short time. Recent reports of a study performed by the Danish Food Commission showed an unusually large presence of insecticides in the urine of dancing children. If the material is found in the urine of children, we can imagine the quantity found in the fields and in the environment where these fruits are cultivated and what the effects are on the workers that are directly in contact with these substances. It is not always that security requirements and security measures are in good order in poor countries where the production is made. A respectable president. I sometimes feel that governments talk about the environment because they have an obligation to do so and that is being shot in some environmental work because it is political, but the interest is limited, or perhaps, rather the conviction of a limited dose. The interest in society is growing, but you also hear people say that we're so few and ask what we can do, we're only 220,000 - but there are some things we can do. We can be proud of many things that we have done, such as the use of earth's flesh and water, and we put them on cans and bottles. We loved it, and other nations could imitate it. Besides, I'd like to tell a little story because little communities can have an effect. In 2007 a small town, Modbury, U.S.A., decided that the town would be out of plastic. Plastic bags were banned, and local segregators merely invented other means of getting the goods to consumers in environmental packaging. It's not that people are fined, but if they're wearing a plastic bag, they're looking at a corner. This is because a young woman in the town of Rebecca Hoskins worked for the BBC and was filming a natural factor. She was shooting up an animal life at sea, and she saw what happened when plastic debris came in the way of seabirds, dolphins, and various marine animals, which got involved in the plastic and died, all out of the disposable culture. She was invited enough, and this small town came to the world news as a result. We're all talking about a plastic-free community today. So we read that in the Netherlands, people are actually talking about banning the import of cars burning fossil fuels starting in 2025. This is real - and what do we do? Yes, according to government policy, 10% of the fleet's cars are being driven by renewable energy in 2020. Today, the ratio is about 1%, so you really need to spit in your hands. From time to time, I've been asking about government business policy, so it's normal for the state to be on the front and to buy only new energy cars. Today, such cars are available in all versions, and it is no excuse for ministers or government agencies not to buy such cars. Actually, it should be an exceptional situation if the government buys a car that burns fossil fuels. We're talking about 2016. This needs a lot more work. I don't know how much waste we made and how close we are to recycling. I take an example from Akureyri, where homes classify all the organic wastes, and he is sent to the mold. It's been done for a few years and it's going very well. However, companies or stores that dispose of expired foods and other organic wastes run it to a tomb in Huna Lake County, where it is redesigned in plastic and all because it is less expensive. How can the motivation be so stupid? How might it be less expensive to take an environmental approach? This is something government must deal with. We wouldn't even have to talk about waste of food if it were strictly forbidden to waste organic waste, and it would be a natural price for returning such waste to molts. It is true that we are few, but we can set an example. We can encourage others. Not only are we under obligation to search for all ways to reduce our way of life on earth. We can't do what we did with the pension commitments, since we just send them into the future and cross our fingers and hope our grandchildren can fix things up. If we do not take steps to deal with the environment in terms of the earth and nature, we are not creating a bright future for future generations. A respectable president. It's not working. Hv. paritaprevir My friend, Jónasson, expressed it earlier so that the interests of consumerism could cope with the interests of the mother of the earth. How true that is! Hv. A senator also asked: " Do we want a left, or do we want a right? I say the middle is a good place to stay, maybe not a safe place to be in relation to the polls, but a good place to stay. Green center, that's it. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u13	A respectable president. Already the first fools of spring have grown old, waiting for the Council of Control to wait for the wind to strike them on a fairy tale. As the last of the few dailies leaves for the summer of the next fall, hopefully this assembly will be broken up and followed by total elections after a dramatic election. The Allied Assembly of the Icelanders has rarely had as little confidence as it is now and no wonder. This terms have been marked by democracies. Not because there are 38 members of Congress who support the government, but because of the way the government has disregarded traditional democratic processes, repeatedly betrayed, and served as a nation and a council to shame in many scandals. They have the highest resignation of the former Supreme Court. Prime Minister. A respectable president. I'm worried about the lack of trust in the general population. But there is only hope. What has marked my first winter as a senator is chaos and disorganization. It is never possible to prepare for the coming week's coming session, where the next meeting will usually be scheduled on less than 24 hours'notice. In the 21st century, we are not able to get information on the weekly meeting program. It doesn't work how closed the information process is in the Generals. More important, committee meetings are closed, but Piratars have provided the bill that the meetings of the Allied Committees will usually be held in their hearing. Since decisions made by the General Assembly need to be overlooked, it is necessary to open up a meeting. Nor does it seem that in the last days of the council, the government will bring forward its prime points and expect to get through the rest of the system changes that simply need more discussion and time of thought. Nor can it be said that the government can simply trust in the passing of time by the members of Congress and the disorganization of the council to push their case through. Such disorganization and intolerance promote suspicion and make it possible for senators to carry out their duties zealously. I know you can do better than that. It's simply a question of will. A respectable president. The premise that the Allied Council can be the root of democracy and the law in the country in which we live is that there is a common basic understanding of what democracy is. I experience it so that we live in a country where democracy is not understood by government, in a society where rulers dishonor the nation's will, and accuse their opposers of violating democracy. The democracy is not just an election every four years. For example, a democracy is a matter of trusting the processes. The day has come when we can't. The democracy is also about respecting the people's will, and it has come to a complete conclusion in the day that the majority of this council do not. When we trust in the democratic processes we have to ensure justice is not there, I'll put a question mark on whether we are actually democracyd. As time goes by, traditional ways, consultations, and promises like no one's tomorrow without any consequences, I'm putting up with questions about how democratic Iceland really is. A respectable president. The last few weeks have been. The members of the greater part spoke of it as an insult to democracy in making a requirement to respect the nation's will and to fulfill their promise to it by going to the election and acting as elected representatives of political responsibility. It's like the highest. The secretary of finance made a memorable statement here at the council: In a sense, that is true. In democracy, the more part you get, the more part you get. The mistake is that of the highest. The minister of finance was referring to the majority of the council, the majority of the nation's population. Although the law says that a majority of the council will have all the power in the country between elections, this does not mean that it is democratic. On the contrary, it is an inheritance from the 19th - century monarchy that the nation is powerless between elections. Therefore, when members of the greater part and their spiritual leader in the president's supply point to a strong controversy as evidence that the nation's will is incompetent, there is a particular hole. The democratic view of the nation is at its disposal, that it is finally the one that has caused the nation's own society. This does not mean that there is always a need to maintain a national law on all matters. But that means that the nation has a right to the end, and that rulers should respect their will in all their duties, words, and actions. A respectable president. Secular democracy is not the same. No more than legal, it is moral. We want to live in a legal state of law. We also want to live in a society where legal rulers respect democracy and believe in it. Just as we want tax returns law to be followed, we also want politicians to inform the public of their great interests and we don't want wealthy people hiding their treasures in taxes. To simply say that by enforcing the law has not been a particularly good defense throughout history, and it is even more painful when laws have been made by man himself. It is certainly legal to ignore national pay, pass a Senate case at the last minute, betray a pledge made to the nation, dishonor the national will, and sit as fast as possible, no matter how trust and commission the government may be, but it is not democratic. There is a disregard for all of us, and that is an attitude that will soon be no more. - Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u14	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. It matters who is in charge. Equals want one community for all, non-employable health services, national resources, better fishing systems, education for all, equal to and responsible for them. But we live in a society where the good will is for the rich, where corruption and speciality have been buried. Ministers have found out how to store funds in societies and taxes while sitting on the Ministers' chair and refusing to resign. Depravity is a problem in Icelandic society. We don't have the same rules for everybody here. Despair and personal friendship have been replaced by solidarity with the inhabitants of the land and their well - being. We look at the breakdown of vital community support, the lack of understanding of the meaning of well - being, the permissiveness of those most fortunate, and the indifference toward those less fortunate. We observe the neglect of the basic treatments of advanced generations laboring to build up to create a good society here. The poverty we thought we had eliminated in the middle of the last century has again been allowed to enter our society like lice. Now make about nine. children in homes below low income limits. Young people are trapped in a rented poverty trap, and the poverty of the elderly has increased. Yet the billions of them are floating above the foundation of the state's treasure. Seaside roads and tourism are turning gold and have never been better. Thus, in a year's journey, a civilized government would equal the standard of living and lighten the burden of those who are suffering. But not the government now. She uses her inheritance of goods in order to live for the rich but to reduce her opportunities for the less wealthy. It matters who is in charge. Now it would be possible to give everyone an opportunity to be educated and, therefore, an increased potential for quality of life. Rather, studying a person's access to education is being hampered by the rule of learning and by failing to go to high school for adults. Patients have many health costs. It would be good to establish a health - care unit instead of allowing sufferers to carry the health costs of other patients as planned. Slowly, people are being pushed into a unique health and education system by financing the public system to prevent them from fulfilling their role. Now it would be good to use an equation of the tax system, increase tax levels, raise tax limits, rather than reduce the taxes on the rich and spare the vast profits of the industry's payways. Now, it would be a song to attract people to the country with green payments and a built - in tax appeals, for why should the appeals only help big business ventures and foreign investors? Now it would be a song to correct and equal the status of the country's settlements, to promote sustainable development through good transport and powerful network connections so that rural, employment, habitat and services can be combined. Instead, the road system is affected by damage, but it is the nation's nation's vascular system, the prerequisite for its settlements to be as high as it is in the last few decades to regain their weapons. Travel services, the new resource, could save many of the world's built - in facilities, but they are so poorly equipped that they cannot cope with the pressures they face because of them. It matters who is in charge. A song should now be used to create sound guidelines for professional living, especially in the fishing industry, so that the settlements can benefit from their resources. In fact, living disorders over the last few decades are not natural laws. It is man's work, and it may be reversed by proper action. Instead of requiring skin patches on their cool wound, they need reasonable rules to save themselves and enjoy their natural quality and human resources so that people can be born, live, and die in their own home, as much as other people do. Despite the benefit of this government, our well - being system is in a great deal of trouble and education. People move out of the country. While the public is in debt, governments set priorities for the rich and the few at the expense of the many and the small. It matters who rule, my fellow Americans. That is why it is a matter of life for our society to establish new governments. The star to whom the people of the land now need is an equal, fair, and responsible one. That is the requirement for one community for all. Icelanders have a choice in their next election. It is worth remembering, then, that who is in charge matters. - Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u15	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. The summer is beginning to appear to us gradually, and the vegetation begins to flourish. This growth is what we see in many other parts of the community. New creation is growing in large numbers, both in established and in new sectors. Then the tourists, who never before, will stream to us with the appropriate injection for the benefit of the people of the land. At the same time, walls fall, cooperation between different sectors is increasing. In the past, the fishing road, for example, consisted of the sea route. nearly exclusively by fishermen and fish farmers, many are now working with a university test, for the sake of biology, engineering, and markets. On this intelligence, we must build. Create an environment for all, young and old, men and women, to see the future in Iceland. Young people do not call for alms but opportunities to make good use of their perceptive powers. Thus we need to make sure that there will be freedom to act, freedom to swim against the current, and freedom to fulfill our dreams. Young people's calls turn to the fact that we have the courage to do things differently. In response to my inquiry regarding the distribution of executives and institutions, it was found that we are the least of the young people's power. That's what we need to change. Yet, we have been taking steps in the right direction and have had the courage to make some changes in new thinking. First, there is a new bill about the Icelandic loan Fund, where students are strengthened for a natural course of study. On the one hand, there is a new health - care system, which ensures that those who need the most of their service have no financial concerns into serious illness. Third, a wide variety of health - care programs allows us to make much more money. The best news, however, is that after three new clinics were introduced, we have stopped hearing reports of lack of family doctors. With a new arrangement, we can see the renewed interest of young doctors in that work in Iceland. These examples show that raising funds is not necessarily a prerequisite for success. We have many opportunities to make similar social changes in other parts of the government. That's where I'd like to talk about the transportation. Transport is far from in good enough after the apathy of the past decade. We must have the courage to take up the discussion of a variety of ways in order to initiate important transport projects. The majority of the people were opposed to going a new route at the construction of the Halfjörður. I wonder, " Who would want politics to have had no courage to make that journey? ' Then it is important to make good use of all ways to protect nature. This can be done by collecting pay for additional services, such as parking expenses. Then we can use the money to build the infrastructure that protects nature and ensure good experience rather than use the resources we have in building expensive parking places. Good citizens of the country. In order for us Icelanders to make progress, we need to take the conversation of vision rather than shame one another. Such discussions are also important to increase the interest of young people in politics, but they do not attend a discussion in which each accuses another with rudeness and inactivity. I call it that we in politics spend more time discussing what kind of situations we want to build up here and what sort of opportunity, because a powerful vision of the future is the best weapon to make sure that young people continue to build this country. With a smile on my face, I say, freedom to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u16	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. During the days, I had a talk with a Portuguese worker I met at the airport and was on my way to work in the Thesteries. He said that the market in Portugal was difficult, and there was a lot of corruption in the country: you Icelanders are like one big family and share an ideal, and no one is more important than anyone else. But it turns out that your top executives are in Panama's documents, and little Iceland is not as innocent as you might think, but the corruption, greed, and bad morals have reached the grassery here as they have led to a great division. It was like a cold water above the nation when it became clear that not everyone calms in the same direction. It is the one in the nation who is in the first class and who hides his money in taxes, and then those on the train are the ones who keep the national vessel floating and living under community responsibility. Social changes are primarily due to the protection of those who are more fortunate but to reduce the support of their chemical memory. The elderly and the poor do not receive comparable rates to the lowest salary in the labour market. The lowest paid payoffs were too high a tax rate from their earnings. It has been difficult for young people to rent or to have homes, educate themselves, and establish homes, at the ideals of young children to be finished today. Left greens want big support in housing with young and poor people, extending the birthworm, and raising the maternity roof, and making high schools free of charge. The national policy of this government gets a complete drop-up score. It's also a plan that describes a complete lack of ambition. Road transport needs to be major if it's not for bad reason. Controversies are as important as transport. It's crucial for a living that a good network will be secure all over the country. The rural communities were competing for the small amount of change, and the worst was left behind with a painful forehead. There has to be a lot more money, for fiber - optics and high - speed connections have to be completed throughout the country as soon as possible, no task can wait. Education is the key to all progress. I believe there is a quest for equal opportunities for education when governments hold access to higher schools and to exploit schools. The latest game with regard to LIN appears to reduce the potential for learning. The little colleges are fighting on the banks. Despite the high standards of the State Fund, the health system is well - off. Private business in the health system has been increased and high profits are taken from private operations that take away the public structure of the health system and reduces their bioavailability to health care. Tourism creates a high level of currency, but it doesn't pave up the infrastructure. It is important that tourism is growing around the country, thus reducing the pressures on the most diverse places. We left greens suggest that the tourism facility will be funded by reimbursement of air traffic bills to the country and an increase in the cost of hostilities, which partly leads to local development for home use. There are widespread fracture risks based on the sea and rural areas of the country. We know how aquaculture system has played many TVs, and the current market contract, and a tax agreement with a large-gain agrienvironment importer, poses a threat to the poor and traditional family population. We left green, we'd like to promote agrienvironmental role and thus promote innovation and sustainability. The left green wants a radical review of the fishing system, which ensures stability and employment in the marine environment. Coastal fishing has been the target of growth, which has allowed life in the marine regions, and it must be enhanced. It will also have to build markets, so there is little uncertainty about the fragmented seas. Left-greener's uniqueness has included They include peace, environment, and women's freedom of choice. In this complex, we have international obligations and are to be leading a force and an example, even though we are a small nation. Left want the future to be based on equal opportunities for everyone based on sustainableness, balance, and social justice. The left green are on the welfare watch for the people of the country and for the nature of the country. Good citizens of the country. We rely on your support in the election in the fall because a new government must be guided and guided by justice. - Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u17	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. Recent Parliaments have been extremely productive, and many events have been going on. In spite of this, we must not forget the great success that only three years have been achieved by the High Priest and by an independent party. The foreign status of the nation's population has not been as good since the silod years as in the financial program proposed during the days, it shows that the State's debt ratio will be around 30% during the next term. Such results are satisfying for all of us. Less of the government's money goes on to pay off debt and interest, and instead money can be used to strengthen our important infrastructure. This ideal period has set priorities for health care, social security, and other welfare matters. About 50% of the government's expenses have slipped into this series of lawsuits. After years of surgery, there was no need for any major surgery. To achieve the results we want, the priorities must continue in this way. It is important to keep setting priorities for the welfare of others. with the aim of strengthening health institutions around the country, increasing the social security system, sponsoring schools of education, and thus contributing to academic equality and the restoration of maternity laws. A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. At the same time, the good standing of the nation's population gives us an opportunity to add to such exciting and exciting work. In this context, there are the housing issues, construction of 2,300 rented apartments, one of the largest building projects ever built. The goal of this law is to increase rent - rent safety and reduce rent pay by those in this system. Already, various rural areas around the world have shown interest in the project. At the same time, there is an increase in housing benefits to those in a rented market. The goal is for these bills to be legal within a few days. Their effect should mean that rent payments will not exceed 203/425% of the provisions provided by those living in this new rented system. These measures include: to our young people who have just left school, as well as to the groups of elderly and desperate people who have least to do with their hands. Already, the General has approved a law on housing partnerships and started building on 400 apartments due to new disposal laws. In addition, there is a process of reorganization of the financial system, including the financial system. to review credit evaluations, impulse action to help our young people buy property and the insurance policy measures. These important issues will be proposed in mid - August. This work is in accordance with the government policy that the people have a realistic choice for farm shape, can choose between having a home, renting a house, or living in a housing partnership. A respectable president. The good people of the country. Priorities have been made for health care. Health is the largest budget of the state's budget. During the discussion, the affairs of the Land Hospital have been very prominent. The discussion has been about the lack of the Agency's facilities and the pressures of the hospital staff. These factors have been helped to repair and plan how to continue. In many parts of the world, there are powerful health institutions, institutions that can handle projects, including those that can be handled. to reduce the stress of land hospitals. In this context, I would like to mention a MBA study delivered as my final assignment at the University of Reykjavík. It shows that it would be possible to shorten a waiting list for replacement operations from 15 months to three months by using operating clinics at the hospital at the Acquilin hospital. It is believed that this institution is a suitable option because of close proximity to the capital and all supporting units immediately. A great deal of work is being done in which all waits are difficult for patients, and courting is costing society tens of millions. The cost of performing such a project is some 25 million. K. It is responsible if this project is further investigated and acted. The second largest budget for the state funds is social security and other welfare issues. It may be said that this class was added during the season, but more is needed. Already, there is a general report on the reorganization of the social security system and it is important that this work progress rapidly and effectively. It requires special attention to the groups within the system mentioned among the hands, and this must contribute to the minimum damage to the social security system in the country. V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. Finally, I'd like to say we're doing well in Iceland today. We have every reason to be optimistic. The state's standard is good, and we have opportunities to build up many important social infrastructures. We'll use the opportunities. Finally, I wish you all luck. - Good times and a happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u18	A respectable president. Ladies and gentlemen, those of you who are still sitting in front of the TV after this fun discussion here tonight. Since it's my last kitchen day talk, it's a perfect opportunity for me to express my opinion of individuals in the door without question and give out grades, but I guess I won't keep it for the book where I'm making up my Congress, a book that's definitely going to be sold in dozens of copies. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] There's a lot of talk about respect and trust in the politics. It is the nation that marks the course of society, the conditions in society are the responsibility of the nation. The respect of the council is the nation's responsibility. No one senator can do anything to improve the respect of the council, he can only take care of his own respect, to his own dignity if he already has it. Most of the people I've known in this field are very difficult to respect. You've made friends across the line, and cooperation is usually very good. There can be no denying that at this workplace, as in so many others, there are difficult individuals, who are about to lose a lot of the issues here at the council. If the people want a financial assembly, they must vote for more objective members, fewer arguments. Who are they? You know that. You, Icelanders, know who's trying to be useful, who's primarily for, who's making all the issues about themselves, who's always at war. These difficult individuals must be able to find a job that would be more suitable for them, such as a doorkeeper at a dance club that I started my career on and learned a lot from, especially on common diplomamia and reconciliation. We who formed a Björta future made an effort here for the last election to offer an option based on the thought of creating a society our children wanted to live in which future generations would inherit, a grammatical class based on the principle of speaking about their own policy first and foremost, of conflicting romance, of more civil relations than ever before. Some diplomats, mostly ministers, interpreted this to mean that we would not criticize bad practices. The question has often been heard from the Ministerial Class, when they have heard our assessment of their performance: Is this the new politics? The answer is that it is not theirs to define our political bitch. It is not rude to criticize and point out other ways. This morning, for example, said the highest. Industrial and commercial minister that when she had received the travel three years ago, no one would have been available to deal with the challenges she faced. A budget of 3 billion on the financial program proposed by the secretary of finance and a transport program proposed by the secretary of state. This is a sign of poor work, a government that doesn't talk to each other, a government that lacks a proper job management. There are things that have been approved by the administrative part of this terms that are so amazing that they must be criticized. For example, the intention of building here, as well as the majority of the legal committee approved, based on the ideas of the Guðjón of Samúelsson, a house for members of Congress, and for the members of the council. This did not happen until the president of the United States changed that it was all right for Piratars to be represented in the government of the Kingdom News as well. This is not normal, and of course it is critical. To tell you the truth, there's got to be something to say, it's not a big step for politeity in Iceland, not based on polls. Then you have to say, "What about it? Should you not maintain your convictions in that regard, struggling for what you believe? In the bright future, we have spoken against bad practices but have supported a number of good things. This shows our career here at the council, and it can be seen by anyone. It's my conviction that the Senate must be changed to prevent debates. I believe there should be more processes to be built into the operating system, which assumes that there are conclusions to be made. This would be with the nation's direct authority in a constitution, requiring national payment on the laws and decisions of the General Assembly. It would have such a dramatic impact on politics, the small change, that after 100 years, people would say, "That's where Iceland's fortunes turn. That's where they started to do well. This law must be written into the Constitution before the council ends. While there is no room for agreement, this is the best thing we can do in common now, in government, and in government. There is enough agreement here at the council, though some, including me, wanted to go much further. But this would clearly be the beginning of a positive change in years and decades to come. There has been a democratic awakening in the country after a collapse. We see this on the campaign in April; elections in the fall and the renewal of the government work occurred because the nation was offended. It does have many things, but it does not include leading men who make us look like fools in the international world. The people rule. It's the result of the democracies after a collapse. The 2004 Media Act, Meriading, Iraq War Decisions - no government can behave this way anymore. A number of new media that have come to light in the last few months, losss, and years, now last in Reykjavík Media, John K. and our partners and the reactors, The Hour, News Time, The Women's Journal, Today shows that the market, the people, is mercilessly rejecting traditional and old media powers, where the vanes are like the soundhorns of the owners group and celebrates new ones. Today, the news reports, DV, and the Morning newspaper are far from the source of ideas and the main site of their discussion. The response to Moggin's strange behavior in the election is evidence of these changes. It is a pleasure to invite subscribers on a four - page report on the magazine's editors two minutes before his offer to the president. Preconceived political parties face unseen measurements. New classes arise. All of these are the health signs of gamlopins and a trigger for democracies. This is good news. Talk about good news. We have never been so thoroughly reminded of the fact that in the past few months, we have been reminded of how important a news agency is, to have experienced and thorough reporters who will not succumb to the threat of rulers, to keep their lines, and to ask critical questions - such is invaluable for democracies, and it must be protected. The Kast Light's work in the Panama Documents shows professionalism, which is comparable to what happens best in the news in the world. I have a optimistic view that this sign of democracy will lead to good political, better decisions, and better politicians. I have sometimes at the time I've been working here at the council, when I've taken my family into town to get a bite downtown, use the parking lot right behind the councilhouse. When I told my kids the other day that I was not going to volunteer again and that I was going to leave the council, my daughter said, " Where are we going to go? ' [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It is a very different concern that people have for this decision, but it is a good decision for me in prison and in person. It has been a privilege to serve here at the General Assembly in the last two terms, to get to know the council, its powerful staff, and to participate in history, with the privilege of being a small wheel in this system of government. Get to work for you. Even though there is a delay in leaving this workplace, it also brings excitement to pick up the tentiers and begin looking for a new place in the night. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-121.u19	My dear Icelanders. First, I want to thank all those who were offered enough and showed up here on the side of the Kast Light Factor, not because of fear of survival, no, but because moral people were offended. It's unique, not just here, but worldwide. Look, finally, a decent world record. You see, there is an amazing democratic awakening in Iceland right now. The battle for New Iceland began for a real late fall in 2008 when the public experienced that everything that was to be trusted had failed. We experienced a complete collapse, not just an economic collapse, but a complete collapse of trust in rulers. A big sense of awareness took place, and this was not just a wake-up call for people, but a community as a whole. You can see that the golden calf proved to be not even made of gold but of mercury. The truth is often bitter, and it can be difficult to swallow it because it has been misled. But in a circle of emergency, there were conditions of courage and admiration that were the driving force that brought people to Iceland as never before after the collapse, the new Iceland our forefathers dreamed of when the provisional Constitution was given over 70 years ago. But this has always been prevented from becoming a reality because of the cohesion of power blocks of stakeholders, who before our independence were the masters of the Icelanders and the servants of the Danish king. Cobbur and 50-50 share have been hard master, and they have treated their people as citizens rather than independent citizens in an equal society. But Icelanders, that time is about to disappear. It was as if in the early centuries of the disaster, the curses of slavery had suddenly been lighted by people and sprouted, as if the drying vegetation reacted when the saffrons of the desert take over a cave, a remarkable variety of grass - based organizations, and a multitude of conversation about how we could uproot past traditions and prevent such things in the future. All of this gave rise to the idea of national meetings, of a new Community treaty, and of a administrative body of people who wanted to be with them. It became a constitution that characterized the time when the awareness of the increasing involvement of the public in democracy was made high below the head and various instruments to reach the roots of the stifling corruption organization was plunged into our greatest law. Thus, it was not surprising that the new covenant and its supporters were exposed to propaganda and unremarkable efforts to allow old fear of the uncertainty of a nest in the hearts of the people of the land, from the hearts of those who have always been able to maintain their control no matter how badly the plaguing society has been after the promises proved to be empty and selective privacy of all things, more and more intimate, even the health system. Now, for over a year, the public has shown opposition to the old Iceland in one survey after another, which shows that people want hope, not fear, and have been reflected in a much distrust of existing rulers, who, in fact, are manifestations of the halves and mental dispositions of our old liege. Here's campaign, both for the Presidency and for the Council, becomes and is a struggle between the old depravity of Iceland, where uncertainty breeds insurrectionists who want to stop all the developments in this country and hold fast to rotten foundations that they themselves have allowed to rot against the new Iceland, where there is a chance to rip up corruption and legal but immoral attitudes at the very root. Yes, Mr. President, a new constitution offers confidence in writing the many of the wisdom of the masses into legislation and policy at the General Assembly. The big question is, Do people fear or enjoy the added responsibility that comes from having more opportunities to create here stability, prosperity, and general happiness with increased equality and exchange of our common resources? In fact, it is very easy to make sure that money is distributed in a fair way, so no one has to postpone the practice of going to the doctor because of a poor dresser. The truth is, it's best not to talk. The general public wants priorities from a common health - care fund. There is no problem with having health care that is free of charge. People are now being taxed enough. At present, the new constitution is the best tool we have to transfer more power, wealth, and prosperity to all, not just chosen ones as it is today. The President and a dear nation. We are, in effect, fortunately, both at home and from home. You see, we are living in a time when all we know is to be tolerated and changed, and all the systems we know are actually breaking away from the weight of time. It reminds me of a lot of situations similar to those of a mother when she gives birth to a baby. An intense conflict ends with something that many experience as the moment of life that changed everything, almost like a miracle when the eyes of a parent first encounter a child. But I don't know any mother who wants to extend the time of her labor. Therefore, it is almost cruel to try to restrain the necessary birth. There is nothing to fear. Life is constantly changing. We should know it best in this country, not even the length of the day, is the same from day to day. I know no nation that can do as much in such a short time as we can. I don't know a nation so quickly that I can change my mind and open my mind if that would be the case. Because we are rowing, we may be so desperate for an illusion of stability. But there's no security except inside us because everything -- everything is subject to change. It is worth remembering that the government's offer of elections in the fall is due to your claim, the public demand, the people in the country, and not to the interests of any political parties. You gentlemen, in the months that follow, have a unique opportunity to look closely at the story, how the classes have fulfilled their promises after the 2013 elections. You have plenty of time to meet all those who are currently preparing for your job interview but above all, you can use the tools that have already been created to get your opinion on what is most important. You are not supposed to be in such a position as to be powerless between elections, no, that is exactly to establish trust between Congress and nation that it can be given real security between terms of elections. It can be used by e.g. Better Iceland, e-mailing your ideas about what the council is going to do. If only 2% of the people agree on some particular subject presented there, the Pirates praised the last election to set your affairs on the agenda of the council. In all this turmoil, I have wondered how the Council works. It is the best possible place to share the nation's will in interpolitic cooperation. Ideas about more and less parts, government and government opposition, with the sole interest in conflict and not teamwork, are absurd phenomena to be fixed. Of course, people with different ideologies can be successful, but it is that on the foundation we agree on so much. It is imperative that we make our own personal effort to promote the council, its authority, and its responsibility, since the council is closer to the public during the time of the entire administration, far from the people. Rather than constantly predicting who was the best minister, we do well to consider who was the best member of the committee and who will lead the work to find a community covenant about where we will share as a nation into the future. I know exactly who to lead that job, that's you, that's you, and that's all of us together. There are exciting times ahead where everyone is offered a tire, where we learn to reason together. I have full faith that it will succeed. Old Iceland was good and useful to us in many ways, but old Iceland is also a symbol of crassy, special interest, exploiting, corruption. I don't know about you, but I'm gonna choose to walk the path of hope instead of fear. Let us enter the future, allow the past to be where it should be, in memory. It's time to drop the film and let the new Iceland baby be born. There's nothing to be afraid of. The leaves on the trees are not dangerous, though they convert the tree on spring days to a leafy plant, a tree that was once as dead in winter. There's nothing to be afraid of. - Bye-bye.
