ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u1	Borist has written a letter from the Department of Professional Road and Development that asks for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the question of robotics. 747, for travel studies, from Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u2	V.E.G. President. Ecstasy was common. It is good to take the time to meet members and others and to have the opportunity to meet with members of the organization and attend other organized events without conflicting with a tight meeting schedule. Here in the Southwestern district, the facilities are in focus. It is obvious that we have to speed up our work with the primes at the highest level. Minister of society and housing are included in the council and in action at the moment. The welfare committee. These bills are an important part of a total housing solution. At the same time, there is a bill in the Economic and Business Committee on the Change in Homing Bars to consumers, which discuss mainly the requirements for the professional practices of loan workers. However, more needs to be done if the balance between housing markets is to develop; the market where housing that is truly too high to be found is a lack of, which mostly affects tenants and those who plan to buy first. The organization of industry has well identified this need for small, inexpensive housing, tenants, and young people who are about to leave to cover their heads. We need to look at these elements in the overall context and as a help in meeting this need as well as other necessary measures to improve the availability of less housing, less expensive housing, as soon as possible. No matter what you look at, the law of supply and demand in this case. That is why it is so urgent to complete the local bill, since it is planned to expand the supply of such facilities, and that is a real challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u3	Mr. President. I agree with that. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, mentioned earlier, is certainly a case of housing that burns on people around the country. Other things that also burn on people around the country, and I've seen them in the week of decision, are health issues. In fact, you don't have to go anywhere to figure out the importance of these matters in the eyes of the people of the land, it's enough to monitor the collection of signatures for the restoration of health care. When people are listened to what the people of the land have to say about these matters, they are troubled. They focus on the ongoing growth of the patient's expenses. They deal with the pressures of land - and - other hospitals at the Land Hospital. They are about the concerns established by surgeons that a full view of the development of health care will be lacking. But the concern is also related to righteous anger that, at the same time, there are reports of billions, whether in the financial system or in the fishing field. There's a report from the head of state that there's about 80 billion tax collections a year. There are many things you could do with that money, Mr. President. It is at times that the common people find that the system has become separate from justice, the system we have built together, and is supposed to be the means to ensure that health care, education, and internalization; that this system has become separate from justice. Then it is important that we, in politics, take part in today's politics, recognize what we can do to correct this injustice. Mr. President. We may not face the present challenge, more than 80 of you. Icelanders, unless we trust to reevaluate the income, for government interests have certainly been established. [[The president calls.]] It is important to earn and do increased income in a just way so that those who have the money do more to the community, for we know and the public know that this money exists. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u4	A respectable president. I'll agree with the last two o'clock. Congress that during the week's election day, calls for solutions to housing. There are few tasks more urgent in politics than creating young people the opportunity to cover their heads with roofs. It presents key items that pay a fine price, but they are not far enough. I must ask, a respectable president: Is it really so that we in politics are talking about people living in my apartment instead of talking about what the interest in the country is? Is this the response of politicians to young people, to new generations, to the growth rate in Iceland far higher than in all our neighboring countries, and to the cost of housing, many times as well? Is it our answer to these young ones that we will continue to have the interest they are, but we are just going to reduce the apartments they are going to live in? Now there is good reason to seek practicality in building housing, but here we must pause because it is completely intolerable, for both jobs and for the people of the country, that there are a wide variety of growths of 7◯8%, multiple of those that occur in neighboring countries. We are to go against the interest, the financial resources that provide us with such living conditions, so much worse conditions than in the countries around us, but not to demand for new generations to live in much less apartments than we ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u5	V.E.G. President. Last week was an idealavitation. Hv. In many parts of the country, the delegates found, and they are pleased to relate that the meeting took place at another thousand people. The main topics of the meetings were nursing homes, but many are concerned about the local household's responsibilities and are asking for the discussion that is already a satisfactory decision for all members. In addition, market agreements and transport were widely covered, but there is a high demand for transport programmes to be submitted. The issues of the elderly and the desperate were considered. They were happy to have discussions between the older citizen's National Association and the State over the discretion of these large groups. It is important that this discussion finishes rapidly and effectively because the solution must be made clear in these matters as soon as possible. At the same time, there was talk about being careful not to talk about this large group of people as a single group, since the attitude and terms of these individuals were very different. In addition, the importance of living conditions and the importance of meeting the needs of such matters was discussed. There is a great need for rented homes in many parts of the country. A very positive way was to find the support we have in the matter. It gives us even greater strength to complete these matters quickly and effectively. It is important to arrange for visitors to see if they will be there. The welfare committee for the matter is nearing its end. During the next few weeks, the project is planned to be settled. Besides this, the insurance business was very much discussed and discussed. Councilmen were urging good action on this matter and not letting the lump drop despite the fact that watchdog's insurance insurance is common in many areas. The importance of the government's bringing up a bill on reimbursement insurance and thereby complying with the proposals made by expert groups on decommissionment insurance in January 2014. Under these circumstances, the overall context of the housing issues needs to be reviewed in the interest of the environment we live in. The incentive to save and to work on the overall market needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u6	Mr. President. Day after day, we are invited for a ride, a bus, to the invitation of the Lands Bank, and to pay. The way these people behave and act is not acceptable. The government and the bank manager are to be replaced by my knowledge. I also believe that paying management will not escape the challenge. This act may be legal, but it is completely immoral toward the people of the nation I consider to be of great wealth in a common fund. We're talking about trust and credibility, and we're talking about we're in a bank that I'm really worried about going to a old-fashioned route. We also read about billions of dollars today as current and former employees of the Icelandic Clinic ALMC, i.e. Old Straums, brushet, get in your hands. It has the view that these are all the best and normal, since society has a completely different place from that just after a collapse. Significantly high payments - we're talking about billions, a respectable president, and the person who has a word for them says: "It's more about to start now, and it's pointing to the need for a proposal not to be a single example on the next loss. We're going back to the drains. There's no lesson, a respectable president. Does it seem strange to us that much of the people of the country are appalled about what it is like and that they have no confidence in the financial system? It doesn't have to be this way. It can be changed. We need to start by separating business and investment banks to minimize national risk, but it's also time for a study here at the General Assembly and especially for the government classes. It should be read mainly of the personal friendship of the banks from the report of the Allied Research Committee. But for one thing, we need to replace this privatized client's right government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u7	A respectable president. In the pay matter, the situation is becoming more complex and more complex each day. The citizens of the Land Bank have had a lot of history, but more and more questions arise about the whole and community's citizens involved in this matter. It is extremely important that all stones be turned back on the case, that the government's banking agencies receive detailed explanations, and that we take the case into account at the World Commission and Council Control Committee. This is obvious because a great deal of sale is ahead, and it is important that none of the mistakes of the sale of property in cities are to be made. It is no less important to inform about the moral standards and the communication practices of the highest financial law. Enlightenment and rooting are important. The entire financial system needs a charge. We need a reassessment. It is completely untimely in the present situation to start sales of individual parts of the state's bank. On the contrary, there is reason to take advantage of the opportunity we are finally getting to regroup it. We did not have the opportunity to do so after a collapse because the land was under economic siege and were very angry to ensure that the banking system would work over our heads. Now we have the opportunity to reassign the cards, to ensure a socially responsible banking system and to ensure that the bank system reflects the needs of the people, homes, and businesses, but will not suck the value of the homes and businesses of the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u8	Mr. President. One right, no cheating. ASI is starting an effort to prevent social embassies in a labour market and to protect people's rights. I think it's a very important project because it has grown over the past few years that the rights of workers, whether in the construction industry or in the tourism industry, are broken. We may have come to the place we were when the spell was as good as 2007. It should not feel that there is social subsidies in the labour market and illegal employment activities. Young people do not know their rights, and many times they are violated. A foreign labor force that comes to the country, whether through a employee's rent or a subsidiary, is very often broken against them. More often than not, such people live in an unacceptable home, a job building that is not approved as an apartment home. It is said that even if we are a bit of slavery, we should not be suffering in the Icelandic labour market. So I believe this effort is urgent and necessary. Business organizations also need to show responsibilities in these areas. The company is to work by the collective agreements established by the employment organizations. They also need to make sure that companies are careful to prepare and that others pay correctly. In an Icelandic labour market, we cannot assume that people are being treated in a way that is unfortunately being done. The power of government must also come in. We are losing an enormous amount of tax in many of the commercial worlds that the government needs to prevent.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u9	Mr. President. Some have had a bit of a fashion to talk down and to avoid some of the greatest means of transportation at any time in the northern part of the world, which is said to be building a tunnel under Mount Wall. It is a joy to tell today that the site reportedly blew up more than two thirds of the way through the mountain. You can't say that luck was directly with humans on the project. Honesty has been difficult to deal with, and everything has come together, water spills, extreme heat and collapse, causing considerable delays and, of course, some expense. Nevertheless, it is now achieved that more than two thirds of the process are behind them, and there is no gap in humans to complete the rest of their lives. During the period of progress, increasing traffic has also been much higher than predicted, so despite these delays and costs, the prospects remain fine and comparable to those of the sustainable work. The winter snowy winters that have occurred in recent years, those who usually go something out of the house, there can be some doubt that some have reminded themselves well in the north and east, and, among other things, huge problems at the Viking Passes highlight the importance of this fine work. [[Up front.]] Hence, she is waited with a great revulsion of the north. I'm wondering if I'll bring the friendly recommendation to a party that doesn't particularly concern what men are doing there, and intend to pay these tunnels myself, to leave this project alone and let it run out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u10	V.E.G. President. All of us can agree that what is wrong needs to be corrected. The trust of the Generalis is one of the offenses. Can we fix that? Yes, we can. However, if this is to be accomplished, the World of Congress must agree that improvement is needed. This is not to be about individuals or classes, and the argument is that it was always that way. That doesn't work either. The Council of Parliament has to change as well as the Council's work, i.e. The Senate and the traditions that have developed over the years. The behavior of the senators must be improved, how people behave here in the Senate hall, how they speak of each other, and to each other. Time - to - day calls, for example, are things that often stain the council's activities. The committee's work is the heart of Congress, but it is not visible to the public. They work professionally and systematically to resolve matters. Mr. President. Communion is something that we have to deal with in some way. It is understood within the council that in some cases it is an essential tool for government opposition at any one time in order to establish a contract. But the common people do not understand this particular tool of Congress. So in time, I have leaned toward the possibility that when a case stops at the council, there must be some way out, such as. A national agreement. Finally, I'd like to mention the rules on the life of Congress. I believe Congress should be allowed to live in the ideal period in order to improve the effectiveness of the council. Congress cases are used to make more space, often in transnational language. They need discussion, and they need to be reassigned. If we changed that, the public might see us as members of Congress as more efficient and even more stable workers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u11	V.E.G. President. Now before the weekend, the organization sent a statement without a border. The occasion was found that the military alliance of NATO was going to send warships to the sea between Greece and Turkey in an effort to halt the shipping of refugees. Doctors without borders point out that hundreds already drowned in the island Sea. Clearly, desperate people will continue to try to save themselves and their boats on that route. One of the consequences of what is called the control of illegal cruises will be my opinion that people will take an even greater risk and smugglers still charge larger amounts for their trip. Whether this operation is reasonable or humanitarian, it raises questions about the nature and role of NATO. It is not obvious that the role and approval of the coalition are contained in the role of border police to stop the makeup of poor people. A respectable president. NATO was in its time justified as a military alliance that should protect its outer borders from potential attacks by hostile countries or military alliances. We can constantly debate whether this description was true or not, but it is a long distance from the coalition to the development of an alliance to enforce the direction of individual member countries in the case of refugees. In view of the changes that now seem to be taking place in the Community, these recent conversions show the importance of our being here at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u12	V.E.G. President. Since the person mentioned here, on November 28, 2014, much has been revealed that supports the words that were then said. In itself, this matter has become all too much more than the sale of such things as bad enough oscillation, and in itself all the laws of selling state estates, in which the parties are now taking the issue into question and putting reproach on one another and blaming one another for what is being done. It was shown in an article that I wrote last week in the morning that early 2014, probably in March, appeared in foreign press that the execution of VISA Inc in America in VISA Europe was imminent. In the early part of the development of VISA Inc. in America, a warning of this takeover was also made that it would cost one hundred million dollars to take over VISA of Europe. In October 2014, a foreign news media reported about what amount would be involved in those who were entitled to whales for these reasons. At that time, observed men could be clearly identified, the exact part of paying on this matter could be calculated. They're off the record. They say they didn't know it. As I've said here before, ignorance isn't criminal, but it's a predator. Today, however, the matter has become all too much more than the national bank's sale of Borg. It's about the confidence and credibility of the Land Bank itself. It must be prevented from causing the Lands Bank to be destroyed and his regard for this matter has to be ignored. It simply has to be taken into account that the Council will take this matter into account for careful consideration and that the head of the Land Bank will be removed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u13	A respectable president. I want to pick up today's poll on the safety of tourists in Iceland. Well, it's not the first time I've made it a subject here. Now it is so late, and the failure of the government in the matter is so extreme that it no longer brings pleasure. It is simply unacceptable that those involved repeatedly claim to be working on, working on, and awaiting risk analysis. The danger of trying has long been clear to everyone. There, six people have died in a few years. The danger of solar systems is also light to everyone. There, a young man died a few years ago, and people have been repeatedly in danger since then, last few days ago. There will be repeated diving accidents in Silfra, and people will die there. People skulking on the glacier. All of this lies ahead and has been in bed for a long time. It's likely four years since the Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee was given the heads of all respondents to meet them in the wake of a death strike on the Sunworld and called them strongly after reforms and cooperations between parties. The one standing here remembers this well because I was chairman of the Committee. Then, too, the answers were that the eve of the plant was working on, and then it was waiting for, in their turn, to be done in the future. What has happened since then? It can't go on like this. Why hasn't you started working at the most dangerous resorts long ago? Why is there a need to be waiting for an overall assessment when the emergency risk in certain locations is so obvious? At the same time, the number of tourists who visit the country increases and the natural bulbs we would like to attract people but do not warn. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u14	A respectable president. The agency collects information on school activities from all of the basic schools of the country and publishes each year. Following the release of these numbers, there is often a talk that constantly numbers of students are being taught and used to teach. The concept of special training has a very different meaning in people's minds and that my knowledge can give evidence that the Office's intelligence on the implementation of primary education is much more a measure of flexibility in school than a measure of how many students need or receive ongoing support or special training. This is what I personally know after serving as a school principal has answered the questions of the Office several times. The director of Icelandic Special Teachers, Sædís Ósk Harðardóttir, wrote an article in the Saturday morning, covering in detail how a flexible way of teaching and adaptable organization can be considered as a special feature of reports to the Haust lab. For example, if a student misses school because of illness and is helped to work up, or if a student even receives extra school assistance in mastering a certain channel in swimming or in math practice, he is included in a number of students who receive special training, such as the one who receives assistance from trainees, tutors, or assistants every day. I believe that it is important for the head of the school, the Ministry of Education and/or the Ministry of Education and the Organization to consider who should use special instruction and select an appropriate instrument. An increasing flexibility in school activity is required, and with flexibility, many students can be met without special training. In terms of information costs, it is important to collect relevant data, making them useful to the school community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to talk about the situation in travel service. I can say with what. A senator who spoke earlier about the seriousness of the situation. It is quite remarkable how little has happened, especially in the past of this government. We were to start a tour of this group 30 years ago and shape a policy, but looking to the future may not be quite the strongest side of us Icelanders. We've been working here to bring a natural pass bill. It took time. That was not supported during the council. I don't see any other ideas from the government about how we're going to try to collect a reasonable amount of this sector to live up to the needs of the ministry. Every day we see that we are not really equipped to meet all these tourists. At the same time, we are in the full - time ministry, although we cannot invite our guests who are actually just having minimal security. I feel it's so long before I can stop talking about it and start doing it. I was trying to figure out what was going on with the tour station. I don't doubt that there are men working there, at least let me hope for it, but time goes by, and as has been said here, why don't we immediately begin building places where it is necessary? I think we need to take a deeper and more discussion about this at the Senate Hall, and I'm calling for answers from the highest level. Minister of the jury because it's kind of unannounced. During the last term, the creation of a tourist enterprise was under way. So there were some problems, perhaps too high a ratio which I think the communities had to resist. [[The president calls.]] We're changing this, but this is all happening too late, so I call for action, a respectable president. It doesn't work like this anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u16	A respectable president. I'm on the same line. It is heartbreaking to read news not only now but often before, from harm, even death, from tourists traveling through the country. I see all of this together in connection with the vast and profound lack of future thoughts and concerns that are characteristic of, that I feel, the work of this government - is also a profound problem in Icelandic politics, but distinguishes very much of the work of this government. The number of tourists in Iceland was long before, Iceland, predicted. It just so happens that it was approved here at the end of the last terms, including that our rich initiative in a bright future, a plan to invest in the construction of infrastructure for tourism. In three years, it was supposed to be more than 2 billion. This earlier investment would have been completed in 2015, men would have entered the structure because, in view of the data available to humans, they had access to the analyses that had been performed and in view of the obvious risk of international tourist areas, that this had to be done. What did this government do? One of the first things she did was to blow it all off. It was an investment that had been approved. It was based on analysis. It was a plan that was there, and we know it only if we were standing now and had gone into this structure, we might be proud to have been once wise in Icelandic politics. This contest to be wise afterwards sucks. There we were really wise in advance, but it was too much of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u17	A respectable president. If the pyramids were going to write a total bill on authorship law, they would probably look quite different. But in this bill, there's an important correction, in b-aide 25. .. that improves the right protection of the middle people and those who are exposed to a restraining order, so we come to support this matter most for that reason. As above, warnings were given on the basis of what is being said, and on our pirata, with regard to the case from the committee, but I have already explained it, so I will not explain any further to them now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u18	A respectable president. This bill consists mostly of the status of the collection organisation, i.e. It's a deal permit. I would like to agree with the bill, with the advance that the so-called Colological Rights Management Direct from the European Union will also be introduced to promote democratic control within the body of organisations as well as a reliable budget of the money that goes through it. I also consider a great requisition of 25. Gr., just like a skunk. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson pointed out, and I hope the Ministry will continue to bring them on a better and more righteous course when applying for bans.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u19	A respectable president. I'll be sitting by on this vote because I'm simply against extending the writers' terms, just princely things. However, there are other aspects of this law regarding the restoration of authors if they have handed him over to the third party. However, the time limit there is way too long in my opinion, and I would like to see, by reviewing these existing laws, that they could be put down for seven or ten years instead of 50 years, reminds me, or 20 years, as stated in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u20	Mr. President. Here is a bill to legalize the social services laws, the conditions of financial support. I'm in the second speech, and I feel that with this government's actions, the least of the people in society can ever be remembered. That's exactly the group that's come to have to use community assistance. Now people are to be placed on a wall with strict conditions, the people who are to be evaluated for their employment. I'm asking, who's gonna make it food? Who would appreciate that? Is the workforce ready to take to heart people with impaired work capacity? I believe there must be intensive workforce and working with people under positive guidelines in a variety of effective measures. Of course, the people of the group who take the difficult steps to seek financial assistance in a community differ from those of one another. Often these are people who are socially ill in their lives, who have lost their jobs, and who are not entitled to unemployment. It's a kind of final stop. More often than not, they are young people who have gone off the path, are not entitled to unemployment, and are unable to support themselves, so they turn to their rural society. We are to put our arms around these people and thus offer to help them get back into life, but under the premise that people are not being forced and punished if they fail to meet the strict conditions allowed by rural society, as shown in this bill. This was reflected in a review of the Qualification Society when a comparable bill was submitted to the last assembly. It says, by permission of the president: According to law, the objective of rural society is to ensure the financial and social security of its inhabitants and to contribute to the welfare of the people on the basis of community support, including improving the standard of living for those who have their feet. A cutting or even cutting down financial support for up to six months, if work conditions are not reached, violates the objective of social services. Furthermore, in the law's objective that social services be carried out, to encourage the individual to be responsible for himself and others, to respect his own self - determination rights, and to strengthen him to self - help. I wholeheartedly agree with this paragraph in the review of the Quantum Community since last year to a comparable bill on this subject. In my opinion, it's a very bad case. We know a recent report made by UNICEF about the economic deficiency of children in society. The fact that their children do not enjoy the rights and economic security we expect is often made up of young people living in poor housing. This group has had to do more than not have to seek the assistance of local members. Will we be under strict conditions even throwing these people out of financial assistance by our fellow members for up to six months, as the bill shows? I say no and I hope this evil thing will be retracted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u21	A respectable president. I've been more opposed to this case than a follower, and I've been thinking about it a little bit. I'm beginning to doubt that this change is the bad thing to do with the problem I feel most important about solving, and that no one is going into poverty. I wondered, " Is it not wise to make the social security system so that people don't fall between ships and piers instead of having the rules for rural society so that they can't define financial support? ' In other words, I wondered, " Is this not something that belongs to the government in the social security system or something like this? ' Now I understand that the rural communities have imposed such financial support, one of them at all, and they already consider it legal, and that this case is merely a clear and clear subject. I don't see it in itself as some crucial factor, considering how the Law School is eventually among the local communities. They perform these impairments, and they do so according to their laws. I knew that it's just not very clear in the law. I'm wondering what it's like. A senator would take the initiative to solve this problem, which I agree with. A senator says that people do not fall between this and that they are excluded by doing it through the state, through a social security system, or by a comparable system. Does this really need to be in the community? Do we really have to do this, so we're causing our communities to force financial support?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u22	Mr. President. As I understand this case, it's the law of this country that these services are granted by societies, financial support; it's legal, as it is today. I don't know if it's better to be in the government's hands through social security, but I think it's better if this is in the environment of the individual and then the rural communities are the best way to meet efficiency and things that they have to do with their social services. If we're going to approach each individual regarding his problems, I think it's better that this is closer to the local community. If this goes through social security, I'm afraid there will be no positive actions to be used. There would be way too much booth and distance for each person. I think a lot of rural society did pretty well, but it also needs to harmonize these financial support with what it is today; that it's not just themselves, that it needs to be some foundation on which it's based. Of course, rural society can pay and deal better with their people to help them get back into life, but I think they need some foundation, like the criteria for alimony - the standards of the Ministry of Health are 230 to 240 you. K. per month. The financial support of a community is very different.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u23	A respectable president. You often hear the complaint, and rightly, from your rural communities that they are related without financial support or freedom to arrange matters according to the needs of each rural society. I really don't like that problem. Yet, I feel that it is important for my rural society to decide everything on its own. But rather too much but too little, just because I think it is important for the city to be close to the power that turns to it. But we're here talking about the fundamental rights, you have to say, people aren't left behind after all. I can't see how it should be in the local community if we approach the problem from the assumption that rights are involved. For example, it is a retirement right or a disability right or something like that, the rights that the State has to ensure that people have a condition and conditions and after experiences in life. I don't feel like it's half-directed. I think it's either a matter of rights and it's supposed to be going over everybody, or it's a service thing that maybe is something you'd rather want your rural society to come in. Actually, it's just a question I'm wondering about. I think somehow if we're going to think of this as an issue of rights, the government should guarantee it. I feel a bit -- I wonder if it's the right understanding for me -- like we're telling the locals to do something that's our own way without giving our communities space or opportunity to tailor these tools to their own needs. I don't think that's quite fair to locals. I think if this is a basic right, we need to secure it here at the General and the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u24	Mr. President. Of course, these are all legitimate questions. But we may not be there in this discussion to determine whether this is in a community or a state, even though it is entirely justified. The bill refers only to a greater degree of impairment in relation to the modern - day arrangement. I may not have heard local societies or rural governments complain that they have the obligation to be responsible for the financial assistance of their citizens in accordance with their laws. I believe that the division between the state and rural society assumes this charge on the rural population and that they also receive an equation support for this service where appropriate; and is assumed to be a switch between state and rural society. I don't think it's bad at all to have this business in the hands of a local community who can see where he is and what potential he has to get back into life. Of course, rural society is offering a variety of social services, such as psychological assistance, mental help, and other things, and then many other health institutions around the country too. So I think this is one of the best ways to be around people's environment. But we need to make sure that things are working well and that the funds needed to accomplish all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for an excellent speech. We here discuss changing the law on local social services, financial support, and conditions. I don't think we share any of the goals in this - either me, why. A senator or others who have participated in this discussion - i.e. to prevent people from getting caught in chronic unemployment and its problems and bad consequences. Hv. A senator made a good impression, as defined by the change in the bill, that such conditions will be carried out only after evaluating a person's ability to work properly. Hv. One senator simply asked how the assessment should be conducted and who should earn it. I'm not going to discuss that question. A senator's view of whether I have conditions or objections because these include solving issues about things that are already being resolved. But I'm gonna ask who. A senator with regard to the evaluation: Won't we have to rely on the professional in this, like so many other things? Must we not be confident that this is a type of user agreement where the individual is in first place? I mention these new terms in this service, such as the term "powerfulness," where the individual is always in the priority of such an estimate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u26	Mr. President. I can totally agree that it is very important to build confidence and strengthen the authority of each individual and cooperate with it. It makes us society so concerned about our weakest people or people in a difficult social situation, both financially and possibly spiritually; people who cannot provide for themselves in the way that most of us believe to be normal, i.e. to work for a living; people who have come to see their local community for support, hopefully temporary, in order to survive again. I think the pressures involved in strengthening your activity under such pressure can lead to a person getting off track. So I think it's dangerous to work with efficiency and labour market resources at this site so that it's like a whip over the person if he slips. More often than not, people may be misunderstood, depressed, and otherwise similar, and should lose financial assistance for up to two months or even six months? It's a tremendous pressure for people who are standing there, people who are often in spiritual trouble too because they have come into the position to rely on someone other than themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u27	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for the answer. I'm going to continue here in a second answer to discuss this from the professional part. If that is the case, it is appropriate to give a talk. The senator is actually not debated about the requirement of the local community that there is a solidarity and authority in the law and improve the current situation, i.e. Some kind of conditions, some kind of impairment. First, I'm going to do a special job, mentioned in the paper with the bill, in the Hafnarfjörður, which has been very successful. I'm asking why. A senator whether it is such an effective strategy that we are to focus on and on the possibilities we create for the person in this user organisation, which we choose to call, and this cooperation between the professional members of the community, the individual, the institutions, such as the labour oces, etc. who are working to activate the individual and to help him out of the trouble he is in. Of course, the individual's unique position must never be forgotten because circumstances vary as well as attitude. A senator entered his talk. I'm gonna ask you if it's not important and if it's important. The welfare committee does not have to focus on it in their work, because it was not successful here during the last term to finish this case, what professional care is there, and how to work with it rather than be focusing on this negative sign. It's certainly not, if you read the input of the bill, you'll be putting out some threats and punishments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u28	Mr. President. I agree that they're going to work with people who are as professional as they can be. It must be corrected and guaranteed by many rural communities; there is no guarantee that such assistance will be available. Perhaps it could have been shown in the bill that they are making sure that their communities offer a comparable service to this group. Hafnarfjörður is mentioned, and there is nothing to tell me that an effort would not have gone just as well, even if it had not been the expression or requirement that people lose their rights if they did not comply with the rules set by society. In my life, I have seen that it is far better to get people to work with people who are good and bad. That is what the teachers of the land know, and mothers who have raised their children. You'll get better results by working with people who are positive but are not threatening them; if you don't stay and do this or that, you won't get candy on Saturday or something - so you're not going to take it lightly, it's not like that. But I think that it needs to be examined by human rights glasses on a welfare committee and to ensure that rural society conforms to their financial support, that there is some foundation that is not available today; that safety network exists; that people are sure to have their own forwards, even if there are problems and problems at this time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u29	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Hrafn Gunnarsson's Helgi asked a question, and indeed he had earlier discussed similar things: Why is the obligation to keep up with a rural society to ensure minimum progress if all other resources were to escape? Why does the State not have this financial support, in a comparable way, that is to support the elderly and the desperate? It's a good question, but it's the arrangement, not only in Iceland, but in most places around the country, and it's a very long story. It has been for a very long time that the community is to care for its own, to take care of it when other rocks run out, whether from state or from work markets or from anywhere else. It's an age. In recent times, it has turned to such things as basic living insurance and housing needs for the population. That's where our communities have a duty. Close association is responsible for these things, of course in cooperation with other governments after incidents. In that case, we have come to the very sensitive point that this is the bottom safety network in society and has been for a very long time. Actually, it was in Iceland before a central and organized government was formed. First administrative units in the country were largely concerned with providing relief for the needy. They were not remarkable back then. In Iceland, the wrinkles were born around perhaps mainly two things, this and the punishment. What makes many of us critical of the matter is that there is nothing else that will take over. We're down to the bottom. There's nothing else to take if this fails, because all the rest of the rocks and other resources are emptied. It's what's so hard to swallow. If this assistance fails, which everyone agrees on is very limited and is rather shameful, how small is it often, and it is reduced by half, what's that check? You can argue that this is a good thing to push the person into operations, etc., but if anything goes wrong and this right is applied, it will be taken away half of the progress for two months. What should he do? Do you not have to answer that question before going all the way? He can be helped by others than by those directly associated with his children. I'm asking, Mr President, what other help is this? In other words, it is permitted to drop other financial support to him for up to six months at a time. There is no support for children. But could that be a special rent? Yes, the special mortgages paid by the local community would likely fall under this, the warrants, as stated in the text of law. It's not mandatory, it's warrants, probably from a local society. And should the individual live with the loss of half of his limited extensions for two months and the special mortgage for six months? I'm asking. I'll make sure it's done in the welfare committee if it's really like that. I also feel that this negative approach is really unprovoked. Why don't people suggest and experiment on having this scrawl on the other side of the road, try for a few years to help this more successful population with Iceland's improving status, with motivation? People are available for support and are even paid if they take a course, if they pursue some form of training, or a re-education to make themselves available again to the labour market. It is clear that this group is changing a change in lifestyle comparable to those who have been in full - time at work and suddenly lost their job, for example, because the employer went bankrupt, and perhaps it is temporary to find a job instead. Although they have cut short, they have the right to make unemployment improvements. They are in a situation far different from an individual in this group who may have struggled for years with difficulties, has long had his right to reform, and is in the tragic position of having to get their support from a local community. [[The president calls.]] That is why I believe that the illustration of the workforce and impulse action there is by no means on the basis of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u30	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentioned my speculations to the question. 8th yrs The Northwestern district, Lilja Hyn Rafney Magnúsdóttir, to see if this case belongs to the state or to the local community. I can appreciate the evidence that a service that is given closer to the person allows him to have some effect on the process or on something similar. It is, of course, easier to apply to our community than to the State. However, I can't see that this is really a direct service, such as that of rural society to disabled people as an example, but simply abdicating. That's why I made speculation about the state against a community is that in the state, there is a system called a social security system. They think that people who cannot work for some reason are on top of themselves. I'm completely convinced that there's a system that's very defective and incomplete, but I feel that if a person is in the condition that he's going to get in the wrong way, and he doesn't get a job or something - if he gets into these trials and can't help it, I'm wondering if he doesn't belong in the public security system, of course, with the warning that there's a lot to be fixed there. But I think the focus on this particular bill is wrong if we think of people in situations that they cannot handle. If it is in a situation they cannot handle, should it not be a system to help people in situations they cannot handle? Here I feel that it is primarily about situations people can handle, and I am no better than that it is essential to the bill. That's why I'm going into these speculations about the social security system. Does anyone who has a bad time that can't possibly just do it at home in the social security system? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u31	Mr. President. There's something I think working with these people to reveal. Of course, we all agree on helping people and doing everything possible to get them out of these circumstances, for no one should have to judge in such a position for long periods of time. Finally, we may need to weigh it: Is the person in the right place in the system? Then we are likely to refer to him as living permanently with some of the obstacles or disability that he must be treated as such. Of course, there should be temporary resources in nature. And let us not forget that it is not always about individuals who are totally unemployable or who have not been given a job, including those who have some limited ability and who are even trying to earn money, but it is not enough. Their circumstances are so heavy and difficult, and they know those who have studied these matters in their communities that they often have financial support that meets with less income or very poor people who are not able to make ends with each other unless they have additional support from their rural society. It comes to the responsibility of the community I talked about earlier, and I'm not sure that it is reasonable to argue with it. In itself, it has not been planned in these areas that local communities or nearby communities continue to carry certain responsibilities there for these basic needs, such as getting in and having a roof over their heads, so that no one is starving, that no one has a home. This brings us to the responsibility of the community. It does not prevent working with these servers and, for example, inserting time limits such as ringing bells after you have been there for a certain period of time and you should go to a special program with them, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u32	A respectable president. I have a lot of respect for the attitude of a man. A senator who shares with him some part of his life. I'm not sure that this is a good bill, but I'm not convinced that the opposition to the bill has failed to solve the problem, which I think we both have. A senator agrees with me to solve, which, of course, is to ensure the interests and rights of those beyond all of this. I wondered if it would be a better use of our time to try to fix the social security system. Admittedly, there is a number of problems. This refers to conditions that I can't better see than that apply only to people who are workable in part or in all respects, and conditions are conditional. They are the candidate's initiative to search for a job, and the fact that I don't see anyone in particular should have any particular problems with, unless the person has a home in the social security system that can be well discussed. We need to fix it. But I'm not convinced that this bill is as terrible as many people mean because it's not what I can best care for people who can't control their circumstances. I don't know what else to say. A senator in this matter, but my thoughts on this subject are still in me. I still can't see the bill's horrible. On the other hand, I completely agree. Of course, a senator would want these provisions to be upbuilding rather than threats to subversiveness or to take care of people's interests. That's why I'm not convinced that it's a good bill either. There remains my problems and speculations. I don't know if it's wrong. A senator can help me with something more.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u33	Mr. President. In one way, we can think about this in connection with our social security system, like what. A senator asks: " Shouldn't this be a project there? ' The global security system is on the basis of two groups, i.e. The elderly, the retired ones, who receive pay in accordance with this, or after experiences improved from that system on top of their own pensions in a labor market, and the rest of the groups who are desperate. They are the ones who have been decreed in part or fully inexorably, uncooperative, and who will be provided accordingly. In other words, younger people who do not fill the elderly and who are entitled to the social security system as such and who have not been determined by disability are in between and right in each place. If it has been outside the labour market for some time, even for a long time, it may have fully used its right to pay unemployment benefits, it may reject the position of being there between them, i.e. it has not been determined by disability, does not belong in the social security system on that basis, and has not reached the age of counting and having the right to pay or to take a pension. So the question is, Do we want to change it? Do we want to open the third channel into the social security system, which is one of the people who are not closer to the end, although they are not yet members of either group, that they have been determined in some way, unworkable in some way, or that they have reached a retirement age? This is how the system is put together. Of course, we can exchange opinions on many of these matters, but they have deep historical roots, as I have said before. I think this bill's drive was that while unemployment was being high here, people were afraid that when some start to lose out on the unemployment bill and over the progress of their rural communities, it would be a heavy burden on rural society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The danger is largely over, so I'm just saying, Mr. President, and it's probably about to end with this discussion and the session: Let us take a good look at it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u34	A respectable president. We're here discussing a bill to correct the change of local social services law with subsequent changes (requisite circumstances). It has been said many times that there has been a great deal of desire here at the council to give similar rules to the local communities to follow in terms of financial support. This legal bill appeared immediately during the last assembly and was appointed by the government by the promise to assist rural society in establishing these conditions. I think we all agree that the amount of community assistance is not high and we will probably always feel low. It is likely to be an eternal task to raise. There is much work to be done by helping others self - help. As we have seen in the Hafnarfjörður, this article has carried out a very successful task. The mission is called Go. It is an assignment to help people get on with self - help. It is called a new opportunity in Hafnarfjörður for individuals to receive financial help. In short, I want to explain their hard work at Hafnarfjörður and the good results they have achieved. Hafnarfjörður has made a fundamental change in the town's rules and actions regarding financial support. Its purpose is to assist in the work, work, and survival rather than neutral financial support. Hence, those who use financial support enjoy better service and more rights than before they have obligations at the same time. All candidates are entitled to the services and individual assessments of the circumstances and interests of the applicant, in which the effectiveness and respect of each person are guided. It's all worked by professionals, sociologists. Jobable candidates are granted temporary jobs instead of granting grant. Pays are always paid according to current collective agreements and the job is at least two-thirds of the full-time job. Candidates with reduced labour skills are offered an offer to be effective help in returning the workforce by means of functional measures in conjunction with part-time work or recruitment. This is being done by means of measures in cooperation with the Labour Office, an invitation to work reassignment in cooperation with Active and Reunion Hafrabies, a drug therapy offer in cooperation with the UK, and an offer to provide alternative resources according to individual needs. Candidates who refuse an invitation to work or to operate are entitled to half the financial resources they would otherwise receive for the next three months after rejecting such an offer. Repeated rejections prolong the time that the person can use a part of his strength. Behind this deal, this appeal to the people, there are many experiences that most people are very beautiful and show what the people have done by going that way. When Hafnarfjörður took off, this was already creating a hundred jobs for the local community, a hundred jobs, which were immediately filled up. It has been found that in 2012●2013, an average of 290 to 300 people on the move in Hafnarfjörður. When the progress project started in 2014, there were 298 on a progressive. Today, there are 120 people on alimony. There are people who need more support in the rehabilitation program in order to reach the workforce. So it can be said that nearly 200 people have entered the workforce because there were moderate conditions to help or to study with the people. I have to say, I feel that this assignment is leading us to look at; the success they have achieved on a professional basis. There have been 59 individuals who have been impaired, three long - term or longer. Clearly, this is a major success. Granted, using people's terms is difficult, but this is often the only way to get them out of a difficult situation they have been in for a long time. This is done at the church's relief work, and this makes a number of organizations helping people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u35	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He says that it is because of conditions that people have reduced to financial support. I'm going to allow myself to object. There is a direct connection between the job situation and a number of people on financial support, and this is logical, financial support when people find it hard to find other contributions and have filled their rights with the unemployment insurance system or are not back in that room. Me and what. A senator agrees that encouragement is very important. In Hafnarfjörður, it was not the crucial conditions that made a difference. Rather, it was the town's ambition to have a job supply for financial help and to put far more energy on the search for ways to get out of unemployment that increase the risk of living for financial support, even though the majority of financial help are only for a short period of time. This project was shown to be an interesting interview with two young men who were happy to get a job. They had not realized that there were conditions involved. There had been nothing to do with it. It tells us that if our communities have an offer that is acceptable to people, the conditions are very secondary. But they are toxic in the bones of many of us because we feel that they reflect the old philosophy of poverty. So I ask the senator if he really believes that this progress has not been spectacular because there was an increase in the availability of all sorts of delinquency, not because of conditions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg Ingadóttir for answering. That's exactly right, and I forgot to put it in my speech earlier, that a good job situation has a positive effect on the decrease in the production process. There's no question about that. I had made a point, but I didn't miss it earlier. I think I'm sorry, and we know what's involved in these matters, young people are very quickly turning off and losing a thread in their lives when unemployment blacks and benefits begin to penetrate the hatch; people start to learn how to live with little money. Somehow it ends together, and it's totally clear, it tells me people, but I do in these matters, that conditions are often very necessary to push and get them started. Let us realize that there is one of the most miserable places that any human will ever face when he is unable to rise up every morning and go to work and earn a living and be like an honest man. Being in that position is humiliating. You don't want anyone to do that. But compared with a larger scale, it seems that no matter where we are in the community, even in the international community, there is no other option, although it is not comparable. But it is important that professional workers be used and cooperate with these people to help them self - help. I think it's the most important thing we can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u37	V.E.G. President. Yes, the goal of social services is to help people self - help. I'm very much in favor of some kind of pepting system where people are being encouraged. Most people are very short on financial support, but those who land there - because they don't have unemployment insurance rights, have not reached their feet at a job market - are often young people who have walked many doors closed for a lifetime. Its career is marked by a lack of understanding of the system's situation, not meeting its needs. It ends with that - because a person will never be able to enjoy his or her abilities because the system is not tailored to his needs - some of these individuals can end up in financial support. Great encouragement is needed. This calls for facing the person where he is and working with each person's strengths. That's what we all know, it works best for me to work with my strength. It's symmetrical. To be effective in our community, we need to strengthen our confidence and our sense of identity. What worries me, because I think we can easily get such an encouraging system on without being conditional, that just when we asked about the assignment at Hafnarfjörður, what would happen to the people who rejected the outside of the system because of the conditions, the town gave away empty money. They didn't know anything about it. I say, "Have a why." A senator does not worry about what happens to those outside the system because of conditions? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u38	A respectable president. Thank you for asking why. paritaprevir The Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir. We agree on that, me and the highest. A senator, that in most cases, there are young people who face tragic situations and end up in financial assistance, as she rightly mentioned. This document shows exactly what was said here, how they work with the strengths of these individuals, and how important that is! It says that all candidates for advising are entitled to the services and individual assessments of the circumstances and interests of the candidate, taking into account the effectiveness and respect of each person. I think this is exactly the key to the professional work Hafnarfjörður is doing. Of course, you're worried about people who don't get alimony, now that would be either. That's why I think the HMS still has 120 people on the move. Because they are careful. They do not use addicts. They do not take them out of financial support. And people who have a long way to go into a public employment market - it is extremely important to help them. It has been found that conditions that are not so hard for people who have the ability to work and who get through the evaluations of being able to win are not the hard part that anyone should have to bend away from them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a upbuilding and interesting speech I cannot help but wonder if this bill is needed in the light of the parable. A senator mentioned from Hafnarfjörður. It has been the task On the move. A senator spoke about, and he seems to have been very successful in the process. I think it's 21st. Treating local community services very clearly. I've got the legal authority to do things like that. A senator spoke of it rather clearly, so he wondered if it would be necessary to add a 21. a that is expected in the bill or the need for a minister to provide advice every year to local governments. I wondered about the need for this bill, considering it. A senator was talking about. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator's exact attention to the bill we address here would be appropriate for carrying out tasks such as Forward in Hafnarfjörður or other comparable tasks I'm sure of. A senator could clean up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the inquiry. Regarding the bill and what is needed - the promise during the last term was to conform to the rules of local society in order to work on consistent rules in the rural community on these issues. That's not done today. It differs greatly in the way our rural society handles this matter, and it is extremely important to explain the line of laws on these matters and that everyone has the right and the same responsibilities. As we're going on here, we're talking about 2-1 2. a The management board will be permitted to set up regulations on financial support conditions that require that the applicant, who is a partial or complete jobseeker, be found in an active job search. Unsuitable financial support must be made to someone other than the candidate who will be evaluated partly or completely. The assessment of the applicant's skills should be based on a consistent professional assessment of professional skills. It is important that these rules apply everywhere, in every country, not just in Hafnarfjörður but all around the country, that those who live in these difficult terms, which we naturally do not want to be as few people, have consistent rules. I think this bill does. There was a call for the local communities to make such rules. The former government promised, and we're keeping that promise. I can't believe they're doing what they promised. They're behind this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u41	President. The great debate that has become of this bill that was here before the district week was held is why I keep silent. I do not have a welfare committee that will handle the matter, so I would like to promote some of my viewpoints in hopes that they may be looked upon in the discussion of the Committee. Often, cases come from committees into the 2nd. and then maybe a little late in the ass, if you don't mind me saying so, for those who don't sit on the committee to express their opinion. Although I think that we would rather not have to be there because we wanted the social security system, wide defined, medical funds of the labour market, and other resources whatever the names of people who are available when they are in trouble, we would definitely want them to be such an unneeded financial team support. It's not. Therefore, it needs to be made clear so that the country will be minimized as a result of financial support and, as a matter of fact, social assistance, varies from country to country. I wondered, a respected president, and it has been noted that perhaps a set of criteria for the minimum financial support should be set. On the other hand, the community is at its own disposal, so it may not seem to be the government to determine the criteria. There is no letter to the law on how to provide financial assistance to a group member. Qualifications as they are called are not allowed, but they are also not forbidden, dignified presidents. The other is the fact that, as studies show - I haven't seen it at councils, but I've seen it in college essays that have been written -- then all rural communities require financial support in one way or another. Of course, this alone is not a reason for bringing conditions into law. On the other hand, if it is part of the system, a requirement for rural society could be made to give the government information about it. Then they could be watched, compared, and monitored locally. It is reasonable to expect that such a report would be necessary by rural society if it is in a gray area. That's why I think it's all about putting laws on these subjects would raise them up on the surface what they're doing. A respectable president. If people don't want these conditions, I'd like to say that I think conditions are a little nasty because, as mentioned earlier, most of us would probably prefer to talk about self - help. I'm happy if my team's financial support gets smaller, but not because they don't have to spend as much money as they can, but because they've helped people, I've been happy. Thus, it has either been transferred to the social security system where it has its own actual rights and can walk it each time, or it has made it to work, and it has escaped the problems that make it possible to land this last safety network. If you don't want your community to set such conditions, I ask myself, " Is it not true that we simply don't forbid them? ' Is it not more true to forbid it than to allow local communities to carry it in a gray area? That's what I'm thinking. Another fact is that in other parts of the North countries - these are countries that we would like to compare with and naturally, especially when it comes to welfare, we may be more involved in it than others, but I am one of those who do not want us to stand up in the best interests of the North countries - financial support is everywhere in the law. It's a law against what to be. It's in a law frame. That in itself, a respectable president, is not a reason for us to record it, but let us see how it has proved to be in those places, whether it was bad. It has been said here in a talk that groups become more peripheral, as it is called, than they have been before. If this is the case and it's been in the North countries that those who fall out of financial support get more peripheral, we should focus on how we can help them people. We should also say that we should not impair the financial assistance of anyone unless that professional professionals such as it is known as social workers, social workers, psychologists, members of the community, have been through very carefully. Then we should take advantage of the few, take advantage of the fact that we are few, and we should be able to follow more closely groups that are peripheral but that often happen in many nations. Then I sometimes wondered, " Is it really as far between those who talk about conditions as well as those who work with them in my rural society and people want to be abandoned? ' It says, for example, in C-type 2. the bill that if the applicant is entitled to be of financial help, he should apply for and participate in job market activities under the labour market laws, including study measures. Is that a condition? That's an inspiration, isn't it? Can it not be a source of encouragement for young people to be asked or suggested by rural communities or to what do we call them some kind of learning option or job market surgery? Does that not encourage you? And is it not true that the bill would speak in this positive tone rather than act as if it were a rod? Then I wonder where it says in section 2. suggest that the candidate takes the initiative to look in the field, to participate in it, when he is directed into that path. True, if people have fallen out of school or something like that, they are not very impressive and need to be helped. But then we may be able to say that the condition involves sharing in what people are urged to do, and it can. Of course, we're not talking about people who are sick because they've been cut off, if I may say so. There are requests and the sick go to their posts and they don't get anywhere in these conditions. I would like to quote an excellent article by Heiða Björg Hilmisdóttir, a city councilman in Reykjavík. She wrote in DV the other day about financial support in Reykjavík, and it shows that in 2005 there was a significant decrease in the number of those who accept financial help. Heiða Björg says, with permission from the President: ▪ Part of the year that has been achieved is due to better employment conditions in society, but also to the progressive work of the well - being field in improving services to people who are applying for financial support of some kind, but especially those who need financial support to make progress where no other income or possessions are available. Each individual has his or her reasons for accepting financial support, so each individual must work with him to find his strength and to look at them rather than his weaknesses and find potential in the community. Then she explains how the applications are grouped and finds out what might be appropriate for each one. I think we should focus on this and write it into the bill so that all rural areas will have to follow through on it. How Would You Answer? g., which says: "It is illegal to cut financial support that is especially due to child development or to intended children according to the rules. " A respectable president. This is to be changed and said: Where children are in the home, financial support is unauthorized. Nothing at all, it's against the rules. It's supposed to be taken out, don't wear it. I don't think it's necessary to be as far between people in this subject as it seemed in the discussion. Unfortunately, it's such in every cell in society, that sometimes, in some cases, when everything else goes wrong, you may have to say, "If you don't do something, then what do you do?" It's in Reykjavíkurburg, there's always some impairment or about 20%. Fortunately, people are not affected unless, on average, I think for a month and a half if they do or something like that. But it still needs to be used. A respectable president. I don't think I'm a bad person, but I... [[We're good at that.]] Thank you. But I can't go against this bill all the time. I can't. On the other hand, I wanted to see things in this room, as if that financial assistance would not be limited in families where there are children. I also wanted to see a more positive approach to this problem or problem, this service to people we give, not to call all problems. Here we are trying to strengthen people because financial support is not as bad as it is. How pathetic it is to be in the situation of needing financial support! We are to try to help people out of their lives. That's number one, two and three, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u42	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There are a few things I would like to have a word about. A senator. I thought why. In the early part of her talk, a senator thus said that she did not want to use the terms, even speaking about whether it would be better to go in the direction to rather forbid the application of conditions. But like what? A senator came into his language using rural conditions in different ways today. Or I got it wrong. A senator, actually? I think it would be nice to hear a little bit more about it. The way the situation is handled is important, as is the case. The senator came on and all agree on the foundation, I think. We want people working. That's where we agree. But what is a positive approach? We who have spoken against this bill feel that this is not a positive approach. I felt that it could have been understood at the end of each talk. A senator that if adjustments were made, it could be viewed as some kind of positive approach. [[The president calls.]] Watch your step. A senator just reviews it better?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u43	A respectable president. That's right, I said, if you don't want conditions, it's right to ban them because all the farms in the country use conditions called. What I have studied on that matter, however, seems to me most of the conditions that are called have some positive factors. I wondered if it's just a matter of rephraseing my vocabulary and thinking about this. A-team 2. it says that the person who accepts financial help should be on an active job search or participate in it, be willing to do so. Perhaps he or she is so uptight that she doesn't have it in herself to go to a job search, but then some social worker comes and says: "Now you go looking, go out there and do this and do this! In that case - and we all agree that he should be employed. Nobody's suggesting to harm people who are sick, nobody's suggesting it. Then I say, Is it not more correct to approach this in a positive way than the negative way that is in the bill, and to put the rural communities on the shoulders of having incentive and resources, which are certainly included in what are called conditions, but are in most cases of improvement? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u44	Madam President. Hv. A member of the United States gives an example of those who have slipped out of school and who may need encouragement and may not be easy to bear. That's where I agree. These people need to be encouraged. However, I ask myself, " Is threatening people who are not likely to be likely to improve? ' That's what I'm reading out of this bill. Is it a good thing to say: If you don't go and do this or do that, we'll take some of the progress from you, i.e. The things you're getting paid from the locals? I think it's making things worse by going that way. Hv. A senator says it's all about people who have the ability to work, but they haven't been evaluated, but I have to admit that I'm thinking about whether the bill will do it, because it says here at the end of 2 g. that rural society is permitted to cooperate with the workforce for the assessment of hard workers. I don't know if there's any basis for such an evaluation. So I'm worried about it and beyond the fact that I'm basically against the approach, I think that if we let it be the bill that the law is the position of very delicate groups just not well enough of loyalty. Shared. A senator of this concern?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u45	A respectable president. That's exactly why I decided to attend this discussion, i.e. Because I don't have a place on a welfare committee. I won't be in that discussion. Hv. However, a senator has a seat on a welfare committee. [[Top of the line, backup.]] Oh, backup, well. Then we just have to share it somehow. If it's very unfortunate - and the senator knows it better than I do, I'm not the best person to judge it right now. There are some better things to do than me. Whether or not a person is employed or not is an employment agency. If that is not a good organization, then who is more qualified than a labour agency? Let's change the bill and get someone who's capable of evaluating people's skills, i.e. if you have the mind to accept the bill. That's what I'm saying. Then let's add the bill so that people know pretty much where it's standing. They don't know now because there are no laws on whether or not people should be understood. In the process, we trust those who appreciate their skills. As for the up-to-date young adults who have been involved in something, I suggest that instead of requiring that such persons have the opportunity to go to a job search, we write in the bill that the rural society is obliged to help people in active jobseekers instead of having to pick it up on its own. [[The president calls.]] There will be some who take it from themselves, and others will need help. We will see to it that it is done. That is my attitude toward this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u46	A respectable president. I decided to get involved in this discussion. I'm on a welfare committee, and we talked about this a lot during our last council. Looks like anybody on this subject, but I think everyone agrees on the goal of the bill, which is improving the opportunity of rural society to provide support for the recipients, in turn, a wholesome means of efficacy. What scares me about this is that we don't fill up the conditions, for example, found in the constitution of 76 C.E. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Any who need it should be legally secured to aid in sickness, disability, old age, unemployment, poverty, and similar incidents. Twenty-fiveth. In fact, the United Nations Convention of Human Rights says the same thing, that we must guarantee all livelihood and that people should be allowed to live with human dignity. We can't send anyone out to God and the sea. But this isn't it. I've been thinking about it a lot, and we've been having a lot of discussions in the future. It's the same thing, and so many other things, there are conflicting opinions about it. The key point was found in the matter of urgency. paritaprevir Well, it's Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, and I can agree with a lot of things she said. It is stated in the bill that financial support is forbidden, which is especially due to the development of children, and that may be the case with the children's contract. I wonder if we're going to have these conditions, if we don't fill them with the conditions we personally put ourselves in the constitution, which are the greatest laws in the country, and those in the 25th paragraph. United Nations Convention on Human Rights I think we have to do something. This bill was followed by a two - and - a - half - year decrease in unemployment rates, a lack of employment for two - and - a - half years instead of three years. As a result, the burden of rural society increased, and somehow it had to be met. Then came the following, and one began to wonder, " Wait, is that how they're going to make up for the added curses, getting more out? ' But the idea that they are doing it may be quite reasonable. We need to have some positive incentives for people so that they can be active. I'd like to mention that in a story in June last year, Hermann Óttarsson, executive director of the Red Cross of Iceland, says that there is growing poverty in Iceland. It shows that people of a foreign background and the elderly have a very difficult time. A large group of young people have come to think of about 5,000 people who find it difficult to get their feet in the community. These are kids, or I don't know, I'm at the top. A minister shakes his head, but Hermann says it's kids aged 153/423 who are trapped in their homes. They don't get out of the house and may be in financial support, I don't know, and they live with the financial support they receive from the local community. Now I don't know if this is right, but Hermann says so, and I'm quoting him. I'd like to tell you about it, and I also related in my speech on this matter at the last council, that I've been working on this in my community. That decision was made to set conditions, young people on the move were given conditions to try to reach them. These were youths in the position Hermann spoke of in the story, trapped in the homes, and missed out, without self - respect, no self - confidence, and nothing. They were just inside the home on the computer and didn't move. They were completely inactive. Absolutely. The decision was made to set conditions for them to take advantage of the resources and offers that were being made to them. This bill tells us that people are being made a certain offer. This was not done by overforcibles or freckles. Rather, they were told that this was done in an effort to help them. Five individuals were offered this, two moved while it was running, possibly because they were asking for it, but I know that one of the individuals thrives today. Then there was one who was interested, but parents stopped it. There were two others who took advantage of this strategy. I can tell you that I was with these young men every day for six weeks. I caught them in the morning, took them everywhere, and the first time I took them, the situation was terrible. You just thought: Jesús Christ, how many people in Icelandic society are living in the same situation as these young ones? Those were merely frightening conditions, and there was no future, no hope. They were just hanging out at home. Today, four years after this campaign in Grindavik began, these youths, both 18 and 19 years of age, are released from school, one is active in a job market, and the other began college in the fall. This is what makes me think twice about this bill. I really can't disagree because I've seen the results. But we may be able to improve the bill. As noted in the Sermon on the Mount, we can improve the wording. paritaprevir It's Bjarnadóttir's Valgerður. Do it all in a more positive way, do it together in harmony, and not with anything else. I wonder why it's like this. In 2009, we suffered a tremendous shock. Unemployed employment is staggering, and those who have been unemployed for a long time know that being out of work is a terrible experience, and being out of work is an unbearable situation. I learned that in my own time. But it's incredibly difficult. No one wants to be out of work. I'm sure everyone wants to be in a job market making money for himself and his family. When I was teaching at Fishing High, there were work options through study as a working road and more, and you had to attend people for a course. They were family members, in many cases family heads, who were in extremely difficult times, and they found it very difficult to get started. It's not simple. We differ as many of us as there are many who are physically willing to work but not spiritually. That's why it's a very difficult subject. The important thing is that we do it in a human way, and I don't doubt it's a policy. The natural goal is to do it that way. We know that the community service of our community is working for professionals who are working hard to do this right. But we can't lose ourselves in some of our calls and cry out, wolf over this, that we're trying to discriminate people. As I mentioned earlier, my only concern is that we do not meet the requirements of the Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights. Since then, it has been reported that this has gone well in Hafnarfjörður, but no one knows what happened to that departure, 15 I have heard the figure 15 in the context that disappeared from financial assistance. Nobody knows where they ended. I find it disturbing not to know where individuals will get caught if they leave because of financial support. Will they break free? Will they enter their elderly parents'home if they are young people who may also be having problems? I feel that we need to consider what could happen and what other options are available. We cannot allow rural society to be authorized to lead people out of financial assistance, and we do not know what will happen to them. I think that's a lot of things. But I'll always be more positive and positive about this bill because I think we're supposed to do everything we can to help people to help themselves. If we can change this in a way that will be positive, not negative, but rather encouraging and supportive, I think we'll be good. This is shown in 2 C.E. that local governments are allowed to set conditions for financial support, and then you start to wonder what it's going to be like with your communities, some of which may, and others don't. Will it mean that people will move from one community to another because they are not? There are questions about many things that need to be completely clear. It comes to the treatment of a welfare committee, as before, and I hope that there will be a very powerful discussion in which opinions are divided. But I certainly hope that in this matter, most of us can agree, a conclusion that leads to a financial crisis and an improvement in a job. Then it's the motivation for these people to go into a job market. It's a different arm. I can honestly say that there's no tremendous incentive for me to go to the local fishing business. Eight hours ago, there's an enormous amount of pay that is not designed to be allowed to work there. We can also see in Iceland's fish industry that almost 100% of workers are foreigners. We spent the day with the Western Council in Grindavik and went to a company visit, including ... ina scientist who's a very powerful firm in Grindavík. They marveled at the magnificent cryo-con, looking over the hall, and working in this large house, in the processing process, wasn't one of Icelanders. It has much to say about the pay policy and the salary we offer today to work as workers. This makes people on unemployment record, not necessarily looking for work, when there are only a few thousand more pay than unemployment rates. Me and the Icelanders are supposed to get us together and change this, raise the pay, and strengthen people to have the motivation to work. Either way, I'll say again that I hope this bill gets a good discussion and coverage. We discussed the matter for hours on a welfare committee during the last assembly, so we may not have to discuss it very much. At any rate, I have the hope that we will come to a good conclusion, leading to the growth of people who have been helped and helped them to function in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. It is good to hear that this is being done quickly and well on the committee so that we can take a stand on that change. I think it's important that the committee goes well over this, is ready to examine changes in the bill as normal, so that we can do this as best for those who will then receive the services they have rights for their communities and then, as it is, the labour agency that is being framed in there. The reason I wanted to come up here is because, like, I don't know. A senator was talking about, that there's concern with certain groups of our younger people. At the same time, it is important to keep in mind what studies will tell us how much of these young ones are comfortable and are doing good things. Whether we look at alcohol or tobacco or drugs, we have had considerable success in improving the feelings of our children. As the senator pointed out, we have individuals who have not been as successful. We see how human efforts are being made to master the new technology of our Internet, our social media, and how it affects our children's communication patterns. For example, U.S. studies have suggested that among American children, groups of people spend more time in front of TV or in front of a computer than in dealing with their parents. Overall, in recent decades there has been a decrease in one friend in the group of close friends. There are things like this that need to be considered. [[The president calls.]] But when it comes to the company of young people in this country, she's still with the best in the OECD countries. We also see in our latest numbers that the job situation is improving even more, even though we have not come to where it was before a crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u48	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the inquiry and thank her for being in the room. What a fine example it is to see a minister in the hall when we discuss such matters! I agree with her that Iceland and I have an amazing lot of wonderful young people that we can be very proud of. We must hold on to it and do all we can to keep it going. The last loss has been a concern for how many have moved away. But I agree that much has been done well, and our children are better and better. We are becoming more aware of the importance of children's well - being as a community. Then there's something else that needs to be kept in mind, in order to prevent people from getting into these situations - they'll always be in every group of people that land outside the park, unfortunately, that's the case. That's why I think it's so important that both in the school and in the school schools, where many professionals work, we'll grab a lot earlier. It's so easy to see where the shoe goes, and as a community, we're supposed to step in and help and give help to anyone who has trouble helping. I don't know if these numbers are correct, which I mentioned earlier and was quoting. But if 5,000 young people are trapped in their homes, that is extremely serious. I also mention a new report from UNICEF, which says that more than 6,000 children have permanent material deficiency. That is something we need to examine, too. How many of them do parents have financial support? This is so much, and we need to be careful. But I believe that with much solidarity and conversation, we can reach a conclusion that everyone agrees with.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u49	A respectable president. A recent meeting of a labour service minister in Paris in the OECD states that no matter what criteria we consider in the Icelandic labour market, Icelanders are working. We are either first or second, rarely a third, when compared with other countries. Indeed, we can see that from our young people. We will also see, as was shown in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator, that a big step has been taken forward - mentioned jobs were in the fishing industry - especially at this time of the year to improve the quality of those with the lowest salary. Emphasis has been placed on the labor movement. This is to be successful because the numbers we have received from the Habitat, regardless of the standards we look at about poverty, whether we are talking about a so - called gin, or lack of material things, show that we are achieving significant results and that we are also very successful in comparison with other nations in spite of the collapse. [[The president calls.]] The past few years, we have truly been turning this around.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u50	A respectable president. I agree with the highest. The social and housing minister in the fact that we're doing a lot of good and at work is a lot of young people; we have a lot of fine young people. I'm not afraid of the future if we just think about it and strengthen the welfare system, the health system, and everything else along the streets. I'm still afraid of the group that's out of control, and I think we can do a lot better about it. I know that we are in so many aspects of human life more than any other country in this country of so many resources and resources. We have a good school system that we can do even better. I believe that by growing a lot of community education in school, giving it more emphasis on it, we could do even better with younger ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u51	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for the speech. He brought in material that has really impressed me on the subject of all this discussion. Since communities are already applying conditions, the nature of the matter is in harmony with the facts. Like what? A senator pointed to them, and we do not know what will happen to this group. This was shown earlier in the discussion, in the case of the highest. Minister, that there is now a collection of data on the development of local social services. My personal opinion is that it's all too late, because as we all know, this bill is being submitted a second time. For what? The panel of welfare committees at the previous council called the memory of all kinds of information, including those who were using conditions to try to map that group. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will agree with me that it is very painful already that it is the highest level. The minister is making the case a second time, and no konsont information is provided for that group. This affects the conference here at the council Hall. We're a little frayed in the dark despite the wind. During the last assembly, a welfare committee has tried to call for information. I'm asking if it's not pathetic.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u52	A respectable president. Yes, it may be said that it is rather shocking that we do not have all the information that was called. Let me hope they're called for and they're in the dark. I just agree with what. A senator says that one of the most important things in all of this is very powerful information, detailed information, about what is going on and how the system works. I've been asking questions before to the highest level. Education minister on the expulsion of disabled students from schools. There is no information on this. It has also been observed before that there are no special information about these special groups in the community, so the need cannot be determined and where to fit. I totally agree with what. A senator says that as a community, we need to work harder to collect information and keep it at hand when we set laws and rules. It's extremely important that we do things right, that's what we say. But as we have seen, rural society has been using minor conditions or measures to get people to function, and it may be better to have these laws rather than to try, as I mentioned earlier, to keep this positive. I think that's kind of true. We should be able to reason on positive and solidistic findings. I don't think it's far apart, either. We should be able to come to a conclusion that is reasonably acceptable to all. But I agree with that. A senator that we would need more information and information. I hope we get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u53	Madam President. Yes, I certainly hope so. The welfare committee is getting information about this group because I've been saying it here before and telling it again that I'm worried that it's pushing a very sensitive group even further to the edge. It's bad for those people who get into it, but it's also bad for society all. I'd like to ask you what. Because he spoke of a more positive attitude toward the matter, I felt that his speech allowed me to understand, and he wanted to approach the matter in a positive way: is there any problem? A senator believes that by tailoring the bill, it is okay to place the basic financial value that the rural communities provide for financial support? I'm asking why. A senator feels it's okay for the local community to have these operations, only if the bill is added. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u54	A respectable president. Yes, as mentioned in my case and in other members of Congress, this may be done more positively, with a rather rewarding system. A positive requirement is to reward people rather than threaten them. Instead, a reward system should be used. I think that would be one of the things we could do to make this more positive, so we'll use that word one more time. There is much of this to be positive if you can use that word, that it is used rather as a positive incentive to get people to help yourself and go to the job market, or that young people go to school. Yeah, I think we should be able to do something that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u55	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for the speech. Hv. A senator has a seat on the welfare committee. He knows this matter very well, and he came across a number of subjects in his talk. What caught my attention, because it wasn't possible to complete the case at the last assembly, it was very difficult. A senator observed that there was not much to do. The goals are clear, i.e. to set up regulations that deal with rural financial support rules and to eliminate the uncertainty that has already existed because there are already some conditions and impairments in the rural communities that provide financial support. Of course, there is also the need to ensure equality. I'd like to go over it, because it couldn't be solved here, if it could happen in the form. Hv. A senator is optimistic about any solution in this matter. Then I'm going to refer to the relativity of Iceland's Social Science Center on the case that introduces respect for individual worth and uniqueness. The review says that it is important to look to the professional part when assessing the skills of work or the lack of them and suggest that such assessments be performed by professionals and that the written support of two professionals will be returned. So it is directed to the welfare committee. See what? A senator as part of the solution?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u56	President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Yes, I'll readily admit to him that it's been a while since I read the reviews, that was during the last council. I remember this review. Yeah, it could really be a part of it. Here was a question earlier on how to evaluate your skills. Of course, that is very positive. Of course, professional members of the community service should do so, people who have these matters to do. I trust that's the way it is. That's how, I think, in all my rural society that I know so that people that have appreciated those who accept financial support are professionals. Of course, you can also look outside. You will need to have your doctor's testimony and some other professional evaluations from your doctor to determine if the individual is capable of working. As I came in earlier, many people are physically capable of working, but they may not be spiritually. They may need more help. I've known that myself. I know individuals who struggle with serious spiritual illness after years of out - of - work, but physically, they are in a position to work. Of course, there is a need for professional and good judgment that will determine who is qualified to go to the workforce, and they may need other options. As you came in earlier, it's all about human dignity and the right to life and we treat people with respect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u57	The president wants to draw attention to the fact that the clock was just broken.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u58	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for the answer. You're absolutely right. A senator says. I think that all of them, at least as I've heard during the discussion, do not share the goals in themselves. I've been following the discussion very carefully and reviewing the comments where I don't have a seat. The welfare committee. The solution to this matter - this is a mild way. In the end, no one is joking about this situation. This is a legal service. That's why I'm rolling it up. By Way of Review. A member of the body is told that such an assessment requires evidence that other options have been proved fully and that they are justified and in accordance with social requirements. I wonder here whether this assessment in the bill needs better and how it is done so that we can turn negative approach into positive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u59	A respectable president. Yes, it may be necessary to do so and to sharpen who should do so so so as to be completely clear. I think it's perfectly clear that it must be. It has to be totally over the ocean whether the person is ready to work or not. Then all the ways to do this well and properly must be done, for of course we do not want people to be sent out to the job market, which is not to do so. It claims to itself that people who are in such a situation and are given conditional assistance will be removed from the map if I can put it that way, as occurred in Hafnarfjörður. There were 15 people who just left and no one knows where they are. That's one of the things I want us to put into this matter, to make sure that people who get into that position don't get lost. What's going to happen to that? Where does it go? Will it cost society even more than giving them financial support? It's a key point in this matter that we try and do this professionally.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u60	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I still wanted to talk to the 1st. I am a follower of the case, although I believe it may be improved by the committee. I find very much in reviews worth considering; I imagine the committee will. We also discussed this at the previous council, but it may have affected the discussion then that the government made a decision to compromise the right to unemployment from 36 months to 30 months. This was done on relatively short notice, and not all were very happy about it. I think that might have stained some of the discussion. Fortunately, unemployment is relatively small and not a large group in this situation. So we should be in a position to help this group. I view the bill as our duty to the government, and our communities to deal with these issues, helping people who for some reason have fallen out of a workforce to become active again in the community. I'd rather watch this as if we were making sure that these people are helping. I've found the discussion very strange, as it has been pointed out, we're talking about people who are evaluated to be employed. That's what I think is absolutely fundamental. The question then is, How do we make it happen that two and a half years of unemployment suffers without bringing people into operation? That, then, may be what has to do with the Kingdom. We have such resources as active and other positive measures that have brought us the best we can do. Perhaps I would prefer to direct criticism to the point that, of course, the group in need of this financial support should be very small. I'm not going to extend the discussion. I look forward to seeing how it comes from the Committee. I'm positive. I understand the local stand on this matter. I agree with the words of the first speaker here that it is this group that goes under the radar; what happens to people who do not accept the resources available, who cannot get financial help, what will happen to him? I think in such a small country, as we do in Hafnarfjörður, we should be able to find it out; we should directly feed the people upstairs just to see what happened. I'm not going to do this any further, and I'm going to ask 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u61	A respectable president. I hereby recommend the Committee on Health Committee for a bill to legalize the health insurance legislation, No. 112/2008, No. 93/1994, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests changes to health insurance laws, No. 112/2008, No. 93/1994, which aims in particular to provide health insurance to ensure that a health - care principle in other EU Member States and to receive reimbursement from health insurance services such as health care services in the country, as the service is equivalent to the health insurance service involved in paying in this country. The bill of similar material was presented for the 144th legislature, No. 636, but not available. The bill is aimed at implementing a 2011/24/EU directive on the patient's rights of cross-border health care and implementing the 2012/52/EU directive on measures to facilitate the recognition of prescriptions published in another Member State. Seven. Directive 2011/24/EU, especially sections 1 and 4. A principle that the home state of health care should pay the cost of health care in another Member State to the extent that he had the right to have received the same service in the home, without the actual cost of the money being paid. V.E.G. President. The committee has discussed the matter, reviewed the reports received, and found different visitors whose names are listed on the committee's opinion, and will not be listed here. For example, reviews were made, focusing on the administration of surgeons and hospitals, on investments in equipment, equipment and health care services, required a minimum of the patients to prepare for themselves, and for the sake of a small number of people in Iceland, it could reduce the supply of health care within the country, especially a service requiring very specific knowledge, if a number of patients seek medical care abroad. It may also threaten the safety of patients again. Iceland's Medical Association and the Organization for Scaring also emphasized the availability of high quality health services within the country. The Directive 2011/24/EU allows restrictions on the implementation of measures for health-based reimbursement costs on the basis of current public interest issues, such as the objective to ensure that in each Member State, there is adequate and permanent access to the equal availability of high quality treatments or the aim to control costs and as long as it is possible to avoid waste of resources, technology and human resources, including protection, and restrictions, do not lead to a random difference or an unjust inhibitory of free transport, people's free movement or services, compare with 9 mg and 11. 7. The order. V.E.G. President. In view of the small size of the region and the comment of the land doctors and the hospital's office, the Committee considers it a highly public interest of refusing health - care reimbursement in another EEA if health care services can be given in this country within the time range which can be justified medically when considering the patient's medical condition and the more likely progression of disease. So the committee suggests a change of content. At the same time, the Committee suggests that reimbursement is permitted if a patient or the public safety is compromised by health care in another EEA or if there is any reason to doubt that the service provider follows quality and security requirements, which is also considered to be a matter of public interest. Since the Commission suggests that the restrictions on reimbursement on the basis of the current public interest interests will be determined in the law, it suggests that a minister's authority be dismissed in order to restrict the Regulation of remuneration costs on the basis of the needs of the public interest. V.E.G. President. No. No. No. No. 24/2011/EU allows Member States to separate in certain cases a pre-requisite agreement for reimbursement of cross-border health care costs, such as Article 8. The order. The committee believes that separation of pre-contraction may help control and improve perspective on the work of the law. However, it feels that it will be possible for governments to determine in which cases it should be required. The Commission therefore suggests that a minister in the Regulation will determine when to apply for a prior agreement. V.E.G. President. The European Commission suggested that individuals be allowed to be paid at health care costs abroad in certain cases. The organization also proposed payment for travel costs. The Commission believes that equality is important in this regard to disabled persons but that the implementation of the law in this matter will be implemented in a Regulation. V.E.G. President. On account of the National Drug Association of Iceland, it has been observed that it may be explained how a medicine camp should consult a doctor's license to prescribe a prescription in another EEA country. In the Annex to Directive 2012/52/EU, a list of factors that should minimise product disposition is required. Including the ability of a name, professional education and the appropriateness of the person who published a prescription and needs to know how to communicate directly with him. Therefore, based on the opinion of the Committee, a standard medical license of the prescriber should be available in another EEA state. The France of the Icelandic nurses suggested that it be mentioned in Article 6. The bill would be referred not only to doctors, dentists and veterinary surgeons but also to other health care professionals who would have the right to prescribe drugs, as nurses would have permission to prescribe drugs in some European countries. V.E.G. President. Medicinal products have been defined as identifying that doctors, dentists, or veterinary surgeons prescribe drugs. The committee feels that it is not proper to suggest a change there. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: The following changes will be seen in 3. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: a. After 1st mg. Let a new paragraph come, saying, It is permitted to deny the fees at hand. 1.mg. if: 1st Healthcare professionals can be provided in this country within the time range which can be justified medically when considering the condition of the patient and the likely progression of disease. 2. The safety of the patient or public is compromised by the health care programme provided on a 1 mg basis. 3. There is reason to doubt that the health care provider will comply with quality and safety requirements. b. 3 mg put it this way: The Ministry shall agree with the Regulation on the implementation of this article, including when to apply for the pre- agreed reimbursement on a 1 mg basis. A respectable president. Steingrímur J. Sigfússon writes in advance. Ásmundur Friðriksson, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, and Konráðsdóttir Kálsdótttir, were absent from the case, but publications were thought to be in accordance with 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Other than this, a respectable president, Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, who is an authorityman, Sigríður Ingjörbjörg Ingadóttir, and I am now reading overall: Arnardóttir Lára Arnardótir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gjörnsdótir, Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þólfur Þólítur J. Sigfússon, in advance, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Valur BjörnssonBrá and Konráðsdóttir. A respectable president. This is the opinion of the welfare committee. As you can see, the committee is somewhat in agreement to follow up on this matter of agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u62	V.E.G. President. As noted in the case of a historian, this case is being handled by all members of the committee. I'd like to use this opportunity to start with and thank you for your background, boy. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter, for her good work and for her efforts to reconcile with the committee the changes that made it possible for all of us to deal with this matter. I'm just going to come up here for a minute to describe the state of the Union. We agree that people should have the freedom to seek health care from other European countries and also say that most people want health care in their own country, but that can be, because of family circumstances and other circumstances, it is important for them to be able to seek this service elsewhere. Of course, this European directive stands far closer to the people who live in their homeland that they live near borders with other countries. We are the natural islands at sea, leading to the fact that under normal circumstances there should not be much appeal for this, but we believe that it is important that people be able to attend this service elsewhere than in their own country. We also believe that this should put the pressure on the government to minimize the period of waiting. It should be possible that these days are not normal. There are huge waiting lists, both collected by cuts, and also by strike. That is why the surgeon general expressed great concern about what could happen if the bill was accepted without any authority to prevent it. Therefore, this requirement is set out in the Regulation on the implementation of this article, i.e. for reimbursement of costs for health care across borders and when it should be agreed in advance for reimbursement. It should be noted that now, when so many have waited too long for, for example, to have a hip and knee replacement joint replacement, a service that we would like to get before they go to the ark, this adjustment could lead to the fact that many of us went abroad, in the opinion of a surgeon, would suffer from medical services in this country, since they go out to those who go and attend the service abroad, do not have to put up with the schedule here. If we don't secure enough funding into the system, those who may be in the greatest need but are not able to wait anymore. Hence, we felt that it was extremely important to receive this provision, making it necessary for a health minister who must now very closely monitor how these developments develop, to intervene if financial resources are running into those who may not be the main object of action. It must be in common with our competition that there are no models, as is now known in the Icelandic medical system. This is completely unacceptable. Today, we see the nation's plea to increase money to the health system. This is essential for us not to live in a system that does not meet the needs of health care; people of the best age, people at work, have stopped getting to work because they cannot walk because of paralysed joints, but wait and wait for surgery. I would also like to state that the Qualification Society expressed concern that those in the Generous Community often need someone to travel with them, to be helped, and that there would be allowed to be a health - care cost in certain cases because of financial status, but also that there were payments for travel costs and such. The Commission did not trust in creating a modification form in this respect, but it has provided this in its special regulations, since this directive is primarily intended to increase the possibility of reaching out for a service. It's not supposed to add to discrimination. We believe that with the changes made, we have faced the dangers and concerns common to the committee by the surgeon. I'm going to finish my case and say thank you to the prominent for a good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u63	Madam President. I would like to agree that a pleasant cooperation with the Committee was able to work well and look at these matters. A manager made it seem successful, in my opinion. As we have seen, I see this committee party on a short notice, and I'm going to explain only what it is, and to some other extent, slightly more specifically on this subject. I'm not a fan of what is involved in this directive and of the related natures that have been developed in the high European relationship, i.e. the proportion of those involved in bringing more of the welfare services into and redesign it to the realm of the market-based competitive and fusion rights in Europe. This was true and has been a real struggle. Iceland and Norway were responsible for this in their time, trying to establish some defenses on their behalf as the EEA, as well as on the part of other countries, that the decision to make certain compromises despite the fact that the basic thoughts or approach are this, of course, to view as central nuclear care as part of this market competitive environment on the basis of Europe's four freedoms. As shown in the bill, it is among the European Court that has moved this trend. He has come to this conclusion and, in effect, rejected that health services regardless of how it is organized or financed, even fully public health services funded by a state through mutual funds - there is not enough to be enough to apply to it in the basis of a principle other than other service in a competitive market; that the particularness of health services is not sufficient to provide the freedom of the whole European Union and thereby the European Economic Areas. Nevertheless, the decision has been reached and has made certain media that, while the government is permitted on the basis of public interest, there are some defenses. The approach is a little special and in a way contradictory. On the one hand, all accept the obligation of nations to render this service. It is specifically stated that this directive does not diminish. The directive does not affect the responsibility of Member States to provide citizens on the territory of safe, efficient and adequate quality health services. Our responsibilities remain, but we are expected to deal with them, even though some of the markets are opening the way for this service and thus made it possible to skim off, but the countries are left with the responsibility to perform a top - rate service that may be more expensive and difficult because of the use of personal business. This is the twin skin, or dédolman, often on the road to public service to compromise. Of course, this is not limited to the European Union; it has been in many parts of the Western world with the infamous results, of course, that in some areas the cost is totally high. The government is left behind with what no one else wants to do, often the most expensive and difficult things; the states are left behind with a completely unchanged obligation to secure citizens of this service, but channels are opened for providing funding for private workers. This is a skirt - fold hospital, as this is usually a tax paying service. Then they find a way to enter these market solutions, to move the pay to the person, and then they can do it themselves and buy a service where he really likes tax money. It's this basic organization or this basic approach I'm going to make in advance and explain why I continue to give this case a warning, even though I am very pleased with the results of a welfare committee. I believe there was a good job there. It is the first to note that we were given very good reviews, first from the Land Hospital, and then a surgeon came and gave in an additional report that fell very well in the same direction, since the situation as it is in the Icelandic health system today and what could be the result if we made it completely without any controls, and just opened up all the interpolations for the fact that men can go and buy out this service wherever they wanted to be in nearby countries and send the bill to the country. At a time when our medical services are still very read for various reasons - of course, limited financial resources for the past few years to date, after the difficulties of the years in the economy, after considerable interference with work and for several other reasons that have led to the fact that long periods of waiting are after various services, various measures, etc., of course, it is far beyond the framework of what can be said to be acceptable - this is particularly sensitive and must be taken into consideration. A precautionary point on this point led the committee together to conclude that making fundamental changes in the bill, in effect turning it back from what it was put forward in the fall and back to the outlook it was in when it first came to an end, perhaps a strong argument for the change in the bill between Congress. Here it is moved in a very loyal way that we make use of our right to do so, on the basis of rich public interest, to be able to have any control over whether or not it is approved to go abroad or to look for service abroad that is offered at home within acceptable time limits. So we are allowed to restrict the rule that, in general, we must pay the cost of such a service if people cross the borders of it, if we do so with reference to our very important public interests, as discussed, which can relate to organizational requirements and aims to ensure that in that Member State, there is adequate and permanent access to high quality treatment as well as the aim of managing costs. This is one of the factors that can hinder government control in these areas when they want to ensure that expenses do not get out of control and avoid waste on money, technology, and human resources. So, of course, this need to be moderate, and there should be grammatical reasons and logical support for the government's decision, which in this respect limits free cargo, free movement, or free service in the area. Let's just consider how valid Iceland's grammatical arguments are in this case. They're unusually strong. That's why, Madam President, we're probably all lights in here, that we're an island in the middle of the Atlantic. We are 330,000 people, but we have great ambition to give, let's hope, quality health care, and we've built it up. And it is expensive for a small community to buy equipment, build houses, educate people, and hire them for a decent salary, in order to do this. Let us bear in mind that our community, with 330,000 inhabitants, is less than the uptake site of larger hospitals in the other North countries. It does not seem unusual that there is about 500,000 inhabitants of a public recording area behind a large local hospital or one disappearhouse in a big city. As a result, of course, there are a number of more specialized functions, a number of more specialized instruments - the use of some of these activities even in this country, so that it can cause problems that almost enough training in the more specialized areas involved, although it performs all such measures in Iceland, much less useful, less training and less effective, both economic and professional. Therefore, Iceland's position to back up and justify management in these areas should be above any doubt, since it is on the other side above and even in millions of people with a totally different situation in these areas. Of course, it is true that the situation in the center of Europe, where you can jump across the border on a half - hour drive or by train and go to a nearby hospital, though it belongs to another country, perhaps in the same language area, is naturally quite different. Under normal circumstances and in the first degree of health care, you would have no reason to believe that this would be a major test in Iceland. You really wouldn't have, because it all costs a lot of flying, and it's quite a business to get yourself out of the landstones to run for that kind of service from here. However, the situation today is very fragile and fragile and may not need to be added to the discussion about health care and all the activities involved. As a result, I believe it is very successful and sound that we have joined together to suggest to the council that this is a safe way to go. Of course, I can remind you that people could, at any point, relax it later on in the process, but it would be harder to go back if we had put all this up wide open without any controls. It is our conclusion to make it very firm, with the changes made by our executive, that, on the basis of these grammatical, reasoned views, with the reference to public interest, security and quality, we can have limitations on which cases we agreed to pay the cost of cross-border action and by adding a new paragraph of 3. ... wherethe authority to deny cost when appropriate is taken and then added to 3mg. to say, as it says, by permission of the president: The Regulation shall state the details of the implementation of this article, including for when reimbursement should be applied for reimbursement on the basis of 1 mg/kg. I call attention to this expression. There's nothing left open. The warrant must be resuscitated. The secretary must set up a regulation on how this will be carried out. This may require some action, so it is clear that some legal action awaits the minister. The Commission did not specifically examine whether the time limit in the bill itself is sufficient in that subject, but since it is now late February, it turned to me that we might have had to check with the Ministry whether June 2016 is longer sufficient or a realistic lead-in period for the Ministry to introduce the changes. The bill appeared with this validation, and then, of course, it was high this year, but now a few months until June 1, 2016, no one will stop the period of time, and it's passed through winter like all the other winters, so I'm now calling it something that we may consider only between discussions. We are not necessarily asking the case into a committee to do so, but I start to doubt it, when I think about it, that this may be enough time for men to prepare the rules that must be prepared here so that the project can begin, of course, be reasonably safe about it. Finally, Madam President, what I expect most is what I hope of the success of this welfare committee is that it will be ours - now I would like to go. 4th, including Reykv.. n. listened - a call to get the health system in Iceland, including the list of plans, in the condition that we don't have to worry about things like these, simply that nobody has to wait for the necessary services, necessary actions, except within the limits acceptable to the health and professional views. That's not the situation today. It takes an enormous amount of energy to invent the list of waitings and to create the most obvious conditions today that are outside the waiting list simply how viceed the institutions are, especially the Landstics, and overwhelming, will have to be won. [[Up front.]] The land hospital, among other things, informed us on this matter that they in themselves were fully prepared with their plans and ideas of how they could make a major difference in working down this waiting list faster than they are now doing. Of course, only the funds have been placed, but more is needed. What would simply have to be done is the National Hospital, the Akureyri Hospital, and other institutions - that could involve the hospital's history at Akrelini, the Fourth Hospital at Nessút, the National Institute of Health, the Southnesian Institute of Health - where they could divide their work and work together to recover these tails. For example, there are operating rooms in Southnes that can be opened up with relatively small tools and could be installed as groups that took action even on weekends. It takes shift work and pay, but it would be possible, and we have the men to, in the opinion of the Land Hospital, to make much more effort to get us out of this position, but it takes money and will. Now we should resolve to do so in order to make it possible for this new arrangement to be in effect and the right of human beings to apply for this service across the border, that the situation in Iceland's health system has become so good that we have no concern that it will happen in abundance and some large money will begin to flow out of the system in that direction, for of course we should work up this list here and use our investments, human resources and equipment rather than start to pay for it abroad.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u64	A respectable president. The case we discuss, health insurance, and medicine laws and health services across borders is a matter that you will inevitably approve when you pass over it. Then you'll get involved if you take a closer look at it as a result of tips that have come from sources who know about it. This is mainly because the Icelandic government pays for action carried out abroad reduces the money from the Icelandic government that goes to the health system in Iceland. Well, there's a risk of that. It was pointed out to me that it was the most interesting problem. But I have to agree with that with what. 4th, including That's the north side. "J. Sigfússon's Steingrímur, to the motion that comes from the night." The welfare committee is a great improvement, and I can see as much as it will meet these concerns properly, so this interesting matter is very successful. I also feel that it is worth considering such factors as the role of the State and the general health care provider. A senator came in okay. Of course, whether people like it or not, when it comes to health care, there is always a need to set priorities for money and thus some priorities. Of course, that is what makes the group of litigators extremely difficult and normal. I think it's an interesting message that we're supposed to take to heart that this is part of the four freedoms in the EEA and this is part of the EEA, that we need to ask ourselves this question. Actually, I think it's a good question. I do not fear her consciousness, let alone the discussion of her; however, I find absolutely reason to wonder. To say that I would not give a long talk, I wanted to kill only if it was the most interesting and undiscovered speech. The welfare committee, whom I believe has handled the case with great elegance. At this point, there is not much more to say, which was not listed by the river. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, so I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u65	A respectable president. This is interesting and needs for discussion. I can agree with the speakers who have spoken here that we are naturally exposed first and at last to be careful that the health - care funds are going there. However, we may more often than not be able to handle when something is sufficient and when it is not. I want to discuss this matter only personally, a respectable president, because I was an executive in the case. I am very happy with the suggestion that we were able to achieve together on the welfare committee, but I would like to reflect on some of the viewpoints. First of all, we're in the EEA partnership, and we're also making a suggestion inside to be a member of the European Union and whether it's been withdrawn or not, we were once on that road. That's why, among other things, it's on our level, because of the EU contract. It is sometimes said that when we Icelanders adopt EU directives, we are more Catholic than the Pope in it. It may be that this is true in some matters, but I think more often than not, we try to examine them in terms of what is best for our community at one time. Perhaps we are in some matters more Catholic than the pope does not. When I say more Catholic than the Pope, I mean, when we pick up the rules from the EEA, they don't change our community. I mention one example that is an old and good, reporting case for 2005, when all rural areas were to have adapted their ultimatum to the demands of European sites far away from Iceland's geographic position. Then we picked up the EEA directives raw and were more Catholic than the Pope and all his officials, since we are still working out the irrigation business of various rural communities in this fine country. So there's a lot of things in it. So I'm very happy that we'll be working in another way when it comes to some EEA directives and not taking them up silent and silent, as they come from this otherwise fine relationship. In this case, the patient's rights should be discussed first and last. If necessary, what is his right to seek health care across borders? Here we discuss that we have a health problem, and that is true. But we have been doing so for quite a while, and we may not have had the most skilled specialists to work on some of the measures necessary to cure people and to send out individuals for medicine. It's been good. I want to view this not only as a threat to our system but also as an opportunity. This means that even in this country, patients from abroad can also be helped in Icelandic health because, despite everything, there are a lot of other health - care systems around the world. There have been contracts and men come here in various operations because they cannot be given in their own country. So it is also an opportunity for Icelandic health care, as shown in the case of the individual. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, to use both devices and the training of our health - care providers in measures some of which are extremely specialized and may need additional measures to achieve flight, as it were. I'd like us to look for both ways to threaten the system, but I can also give it a chance. We sometimes tend to get stuck in protecting the system instead of being able to open up and take advantage of more opportunities, but we may be facing each moment when you're in a lot of trouble. We talked about a waiting list. It has been discussed that even measures may be taken to hospitals other than the Land Hospital, where both human resources and instruments are available. That's fine. Let us not forget, too, that we have some self - employed doctors who can also accept them and who are in the medical system and who are being paid within the medical system. To illustrate: Not all victims of herpes zoster can be held at the Hospital. They are carried out in Mjód, including and by independent medical personnel, but a proportion of health insurance is high to 92%; the patient himself pays off fractures, less than 10%, if he goes to such parties. The same is true if you have knee surgery or bone surgery on your feet, as some women do, in order to get big bones that go out of your toes, you can get it done by independent doctors, but health insurance is partly involved. So there is a possibility within the system. We think it's a bit easy to view Land Hospital as an alpha and an Omega of all health care in the country, but it shouldn't be. The number of hospitals around the country is wide and wide, which can handle projects and work on waiting lists as well as on both sides. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir called. I think that if we can say so, it's possible to see what our great health care providers can do, if it's not just a time limit for a waiting list, it's possible to see it as an opportunity. I'm not talking about, you know, a respectable President, but we're supposed to be looking at this as an opportunity, because it's a great people here. So that we can develop a healthy, sophisticated health system in the complex and complex systems of technology and human resources, I hope we will be able to view this as an opportunity for our health care professionals to further practice and make better use of human resources and tools.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u66	Madam President. It is with great pleasure that I recommend for this body of council proposal that I make with some of it. Councilmen. The point of the proposal is that the government will start a conversation with Japan about a free trade between the states. The proposal also points to the Japanese government's declaration of its firm will in order to increase the share of free shops in international trades. The story of this proposal has become quite colorful. This is the third time she's moved. It must be said, just as it is said, she has gained a tremendously good foundation at the high Council. To mention, Madam President, that last year, the proposal was made by a diplomat from a foreign committee, but strange coincidences and possibly fatal intents of destiny led to her never getting paid in the Age sometimes found at the General Assembly at the end of Congress. There are several reasons why this suggestion has been made. I, the first of her missionaries, have used me very much for free shops, especially in the Asian countries. In my day as a minister of foreign affairs, I arranged for a major vacation contract with China and a number of smaller vacation contracts with Asian countries. Last year I also made a pact proposal for Icelanders to obtain free business talks with ASEAN, a government alliance of ten states in Southeast Asia. So the motion is part of the plan for a vacation shop in Asia. I believe that Asia and the Asian countries are very successful markets forever. It may be that today business with them was not so important. However, it is clear that there is a growing intermediate class. There is a high economic growth and does not seem to be much slack. So it is important to create an opportunity for an Icelandic store and to produce Icelandic production into the future to put these things away with an earlier fall. It is far easier to make such agreements now than later. Japan is quite different from other Asian countries. We have a long-term business relationship with Japan. We've got a considerable amount of money involved in international business with the Japanese, don't you think it's worth a hundred and tens of billions of dollars? The last time I checked, we were moving out to Japan for a 14 billion dollars. The Japanese just moved in with Iceland's products to a value like 10 billion. It's impressive when you look at the customs this international store holds that between Iceland and Japan, there are balances. The information we received was the last round of the investigation. The State Department's Department officials indicated, although not handled with very accurate numbers, that we would have to pay about 80% of the imports that Iceland comes to Japan, but Japan doesn't have to pay tolls on land or fees except to pay back to 20 or 30% at the time it was considered. Since then, changes have been made through the current government, which has made this much more disturbing for Iceland. My opinion is that it is of great importance to us that the Icelandic government lays a great deal on contracts that spend this indiscriminately, that, in effect, increases mutuality, and which, in effect, cancels the fees and tolls on this store. During discussions held in these halls, perhaps two or three weeks ago, this was noticed by an attitude. A senator that Japan wouldn't be interested in making a contract on a vacation store with Iceland. It may well be. The main reason, then, is that they do not seem to be pleased. But Icelanders should not accept that view. We are to pressure Japan to make such a deal, and this is especially because I believe that this is a special song. Japan has been in many ways confined to land. In recent decades, they have made extremely few treaties involving free trades. In recent years, however, they have looked more at vacation stores than before. In the past, the prime minister of Japan, Shinzos Abes, who has led two governments, he has set out a very clear course in which this is made clear. One of the famous three arrows he calls his economic policy is that of greatly increasing the share of foreign trade. Today, a vacation store is about one fifth of the Japanese foreign store, and Shinzos Abes's government is heading for an 80% increase. Second, the Japanese State Department has established a policy for which state and state law of Japan prefers to negotiate the first vacation agreements. It is very clear that they are looking particularly at countries that are rich in resources and that produce food, especially seafood. A sea issue is just a large part of what we're moving out there. In view of this, it is quite clear that Iceland is highly impressed by the definitions of countries they want to communicate with themselves. Third, it is also important that we have set ourselves in line for the countries with which Japan shares the same routine. We are among the Western democracies that base their community order on democracy, human rights, and the rules of the legal state. We are united with the Japanese, and we are in a position to call for such cooperation. More important, land relations have been very successful. Japan, for example, has cooperated with Iceland to build energy production here in the last 30 years. For a short time, all the turbins in the Icelandic energy plant, e.g. being bought in Japan and financed by Japanese loans. In spite of this, it has not been the basis for a sound agreement with the Japanese, which is said to be on the part of those who now have the authority to attack a vacation trade agreement with us. They also need to look for ways that we have searched for it for years, including while I was a minister of foreign origin, to make a trip to Japan. See, we are the only northern countries that Japan has not wanted to do with air travel agreements. The evidence is very clear on their part. It's the smallest of Iceland. But that is exactly the argument the Icelanders have never accepted. We have never agreed that Iceland's smallness will make it harder for us to communicate better and more effectively with other countries. Let us also look forward to this year's 60th anniversary of the political union of Iceland and Japan. I believe this is a milestone that we should use in an effort to tie our relationship with Japan with more solid knots. We are to use this milestone to force them to be remembered by making such a deal. It is a custom in dealing with countries at such a turning point that the major anniversary of a political relationship is used to attack such a milestone. I believe there is strong evidence that the government can now answer. There could be more reasoning, including. The logic of political equilibrium. We've made a free trade deal with the German Republic of China. We all know that we are seeing international politics in the trades of Japan and China, and it is natural in the circumstances that we want to practice the balance arts involved in making such a agreement not only with the common republics but also with Japan. I also mention that because of the pressures that have developed in the South China Sea in Japanese relations with especially China, Japan has increasingly been looking to an increased solidarity with the states of the Atlantic Community. For this reason, I reminded Japan's prime minister of his visit to the headquarters of NATO, where he literally called for more cooperation with the Atlantic Community. Likely, it is because he believes that it is of no strength to Japan. It's also important for Iceland's job on a free shop contract. Iceland is the founder of the Atlantic Alliance, and our voice is important within it. This should be true in Japan, just as we should in the case of a firm desire of the kind to which this suggestion is made. Of course, it can be said that making such decisions is primarily the responsibility and authority of the European Commission. I believe, however, that this sort of case should be taken care of by the Council. That's exactly what I think because of the attitude and indifference of the Japanese treaties I've killed in various places in my speech, it was important that the Council let his voice be heard in this. It matters, as I know of the dealings with Japanese senators and visits there as both Ministers, but as a general senator, that when a council makes a decision or shapes a policy in this manner as if the General Assembly would accept the proposal, it is as important as I know it. Madam President. So it's all arranged for right now, I'm not talking about saying that at the moment the commission is leaving the Icelandic council to the Japanese Council, that the Council is instigating the completion of this proposal that has so far been quite successful that there is a rich will to accept at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u67	A respectable president. I cannot help but mention that in this excellent suggestion that has all my support, Japan and Iceland have things in common about democracy and human rights and good things; something that I could not have seen in a Senate resolution of a free trade deal with China. But that's not what we're talking about here. That's what we're doing here. That's what we're doing here. A senator can expect my support on it, especially because there are two countries that share a basic perspective on how communities should function. I'd like to hear a little more from what we're talking about. A senator's exact relationship with which he believes this proposal will help to improve the interests of both countries; whether he sees to it that the demolition of tolls is the key thing, something that has to do with the tax or the like. Obviously, these are the things that would need to be revealed later than what. A senator must have ideas about exactly how this would work in praxis. I would also like to ask you why. To a senator how much of the importance of the proposal it is considered to be in the common basic vision of these two countries, in particular human rights, democracy and freedom, the good values we teach us, yes. I'm not going to hide it because, of course, I'm asking in relation to the Congress resolution of a free trade deal with China and I'd love to hear from it. A senator on this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u68	Madam President. Tolar, even though they may not be high, is often a major business travel suit, and it is clear that if we were to cancel all our fees for import from here to Japan, it would probably have paid the way of Icelandic goods into a Japanese market. I'm not an expert, of course, but I'm like a dog. Senator, I seek advice from wise people. When I was traveling to Japan last, I had a meeting with the National Trade Council of Japan, and it was found that the Council was very eager to find out that this journey would take place. They had learned from it and said that it was important. They may have been the leading members of the Icelanders and, in fact, the Japanese, who were selling fish. They thought it was important. Not to be forgotten, for example, that Japan is a very important market for certain seafood. This may be a key argument. In both countries, the argument is that delinquency of customs increases and pays for business purposes and is likely to reduce the price to consumers as well. So I come to the human rights question, so in this synonym, I give six reasons why such discussions can be demanded in spite of certain interest on Japan. Among these reasons is the fact that we have been associated with Japan in the strength of our adherence to certain principles in our social order, and we join ourselves in a group that is fighting for democracy, the rules of justice, and human rights. You know, about China, I'll tell you what. A senator does not forget that, along with the body of Congress that he referred to, a special work contract was also made with China, where a conversation was to be made between the Icelandic labour market and the Chinese on human rights and things that could be said to be wrong in China. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think the conversation matters. They were my nobility in the past, and they would be to other countries too.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u69	A respectable president. There's probably few people in this room, maybe one snooze. A senator, who is as opposed to customs as the person standing here. I don't mind taxation, like income taxes and credit taxes. Although I have opinions about these taxes, I feel that tolls are one of the worst forms of taxation that can and is basically against them. But from now on, I hope that's the right thing to do. A senator's conversation with China will provide improvements, not just to a labour market, but to the democratic attitude of himself. It's a conversation we had at the time, it's a long way if I remember correctly, and I don't see reason to spend much time with it here. I found this interesting, though, because it is used as a basis for this suggestion, and the argument is very good, I want to repeat. I like logic. The fact that Japan and Iceland have a common perspective on the basic value of so - called Western democracies, which, of course, are not just Western, gives me an important part of our work on this market. We really are, I don't know how to say these things neat enough, to be somewhat dependent on each other. I think that'll help both for world peace and for the progress of democracy. But I don't see the same thing about China, because there's also a huge difference in power on the road, and now Japan is not a small country for Iceland. But China is, of course, the largest country in the world. However, I agree with that as a matter of course. In his speech, a senator said that Asia was a good future market, and I have not yet seen predictions about crowds or economics in the long run, indicating anything else. So I welcome the proposal as a matter of course. A senator proposes here. But then I also have to say that I'm especially happy with the logic because he's good, and he's supposed to be there to make deals like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u70	Madam President. The angle that lays. A senator, in comparison with China, examines this interpretation arrangement with interest and respect for the discussion. I wondered how we can imagine that it is best to influence a set of values, such as human rights. Now it is absolutely clear that China has a understanding of human rights other than Iceland. The discussion was at one time about whether we should allow it to lead to our not getting involved with China. Is this to mean that we do not have cultural or commercial contact with China? Some claimed that at the time, and that is a view that is completely legitimate. But I'm the opposite. Take China as it was in 1976 when Chairman Mao died. China was completely different from what it is today. What Has Changed? Yeah. If we take human rights, I think they are far better along in China today than they are in 1976. What has happened in China since then? Yeah. China has opened its borders under the lead of Deng Xiaoping, who said it didn't matter what color the cat was only if he caught mice. Then the Chinese have taken enormous knowledge. They now have much business dealings with the whole world. I believe history shows that hand in hand leads to growing trade and growing culture and changing customs. I believe that we should communicate with countries like China, just as I believe that, for example, we are not to break political ties with Israel, even though I am opposed to governments there. [[The president calls.]] We need the conversation and the pressure that communicates. So does China. As history has shown in China, increasing business is having an effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the contributions of this synonym, which I celebrate and support. I'm glad that it has come out, although only to call attention to the important issues that are toll and free trades between countries. I see that a paper with the synonym is mentioned, so I'll do some formality, that cars are tax-free products. Just in this regard, you might want to remember that automobiles are covered with very high costs, the import costs here which are toll. Guards are placed on cars from 0% to 65%. It can be called product charges or tolls. Of course, customs are important. But I'm not gonna discuss it here. Often, the problem with free trade agreements is that those who are even married to vacation contracts will bite at the point of not going beyond free bargains. You might say that there are two schools in customs. On the one hand, the school I have to say, I believe, is to be taken care of in general regardless of what other countries are going to do. People are to go to their homes and look after their subjects and their interests. The other school finds that we cannot eliminate customs beyond what other countries do because we have to have some change, say men, talking to other nations about access to our lips. You see customs as change. I wanted to hear each school. A senator would think he belonged, if I might be so bold as to classize the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u72	Madam President. I'm not a heretic. I'm like a dog. A senator earlier did not object to paying taxes, but I have opposed customs and transport fees. A senator can examine my record in this regard. I've always supported their delinquency. I used to be in the government with a pack of what? A senator who was determined to cut down all the transport fees. The event was in a way that did not have time to do so, but it was approved by the government. I have to say, as I'm thinking here, that I think it would be more successful in the long term to use the delinquency of customs in order to get the same kind of delinquency in another country. I think in the long run, that would be more important. But I understand the ideological position as a struggle. A senator is in. I believe that the way I believe would bring more benefits to consumers both in my country and in my business country. But, hey. Of course, a member of the council has been responsible for these issues. The present government has more and less by my vote has canceled much of the transfer fees, which, in effect, means that, compared to the school it is not committed, certain weights have not been superseded. It did not fall on at least two counts of soil when this was the case. Then I recall that at the time of the contract with China, there was suddenly a sharper entry into them negotiations on the part of Iceland. Government officials were unable to lose the $2 billion or what it was now that government funds would have earned if the deal had not been made. I think we can look at the situation now and see that everything is drawing up so that the benefits of Icelandic consumers are far more than that and will be in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u73	A respectable president. Yes, all goods have been removed, customs taken away from clothing and shoes. This government is looking to go further in any case. But I get it right then. A senator doesn't believe that he will not accept customs here? Take, for example, the agricultural industry, that there should not be any special customs to be taken care of? I believe that precisely what this government has done, what is being done on the market and customs of clothing, will help us hopefully plan negotiations with Japan and other countries. So in this country, we have nothing to report on. This is the change, the biggest change we can offer: Here is free access. What more do you want? That's what we're supposed to use. Absolutely. Iceland has a lot of experience with free trade agreements. We have the large EEA contract that is one of the total free market agreements with many European countries, many of our main business countries each. Then Iceland has a contract with EFTA to several states and Iceland has a one-sided deal, actually just with three states, I think I'm right; China, Faeroe Islands, and Greenland. Iceland has more experience in participating in treaties with others, but I definitely believe Iceland should take on more side than one - sided terms for free trade agreements, two - sided, I mean that Iceland is on one such agreements with other countries, regardless of EFTA's position. I hear what you're saying. A senator feels that way about a planned discussion with Japan. I wondered as I look at the list of EFTA vacation contracts, that in Africa only treaties with the states of South Africa and Morocco. I'd love to hear if I could. A senator has considered the next steps in this regard, whether he knows about any country or is able to contribute to any other country that must be considered in that regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u74	Madam President. I believe, as I have observed many times, that even if EFTA is not interested, we should not hesitate to go on two - side business contracts. So if I suggested that I recall that it was exactly the interest of Icelanders through their relationship with Western Icelanders that led to our starting a discussion with Canada on a two-way vacation contract that eventually became a vacation agreement between EFTA and Canada. True, it took 12 or 14 years to finish. Thus, our interest in the benefits that were important. In the particular case we discuss, the unusual situation is that one European country has a free trade deal with Japan, and that is Switzerland. Switzerland went to it without looking for EFTA to accept that contract. If that had happened, then we would probably have been in a much better position now, especially regarding our exports to seafood to Japan. That's why I say we're going on our own and making a two-way deal with Japan because EFTA has no interest in this particular position. Since then, I have a very clear view of what to do as the next step. I believe we're supposed to go through EFTA or that's why we're two-way conversation with ASEAN, an alliance of ten states in Southeast Asia, about a vacation store. That alliance has built within its own ranks quite a strong unit. It reminds us of the European Union, but it's still a little different. This museum, I believe, is the next economic tiger. These countries, for example, suck money from China and Japan because labor is cheaper, there is poverty. [[The president calls.]] It is of great importance for those countries to come to their senses. So I think that we should contribute to the construction of an EFTA holiday contract that would lead to Icelandic profit and possible investments from the EFTA countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u75	A respectable president. The body of Congress that is discussed here on a vacation contract with Japan is a remarkable piece of paper for me. It is shown here that Iceland and Japan have had a 60 - year political relationship as well as an almost 60 - year business relationship. In some ways, the trade that Iceland has had with Japan has been very successful. They have led to significant progress, whether in Icelandic and commercial households. I'd like to remind you that about 1960, there was a basic change in the fish fishing industry here. The fishing instruments there were Japanese, Japanese campers, and other fishing instruments followed. Iceland has imported from turbin Japanese companies into saunas and even other inducers produced by light and warmth for Icelandic households. Similarly, Japan has made most of its household appliances a relatively cheaper public property. In fact, it is not until the last two, three years that we have left behind the policy of making all creations and then laying down goods without knowing to this day how these trades or customs were set. Thus, our share in this contract, toll deduction, and goods, has been partly accomplished. The cost of vehicles and fossil fuels remains. It's the price of a vehicle that matters in these contracts. At the other end, we have moved a considerable amount of seafood to Japan. At last, it seems to me that the only sea product that is completely excluded from customs is whale products. Tolls on other seafood products are up to 10%, and that is important because I allow myself to say that customs impair the standard of living both for producers and for consumers. What is happening here is likely to improve the standard of living in both parts of Iceland and Japan. There have been some debates about business agreements. I'm going to guess from my experience on business contracts, vacation contracts, that they always end up with two groups of goods, i.e. Agricultural products and marine products Both classes seem to have special protection in other lands. For example, the fishing route here on the land serves as a protection concerning investments. This results in customs in Europe. This is not to say that there must be customs on seafood products in Japan, since the nation's main protein source comes from the sea. Fortunately, we have Icelanders in abundance. I hope the U.S. Senate is making this very fast and fast. During the last assembly, a comparable council proposal was made. She was fully committed to the Foreign Affairs Committee, but she could not be handed over here on a subsequent visit. I hope the U.S.R. will have the best chance to finish this case. I repeat, the world's well - being at a vacation market, and I hope this will contribute to the greater well - being of the nations. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have any more of those words for you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u76	A respectable president. I got involved in this discussion with my chairman's request. paritaprevir Óttar Proppér, one of the representatives of the proposal presented here. He could not attend this discussion but asked me to say: " This is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u77	Madam President. I want the end of this discussion to thank you. The members of the Parliament are very well thought - out in this matter. I don't think anyone who's listened to this kind of conversation is going to be able to agree with the Senate proposal we've made here by some members of Congress and to the fact that the government will start a conversation with Japan about a vacation store. I have, both in a paper with the Senate resolution proposal and in my story here, traced some factors that lead to the fact that this is the very time for it. I would like to heighten the fact that it is important that we watch in 2016 when 60 years have passed since Iceland and Japan adopted a political relationship. During that milestone, it would be appropriate for us to agree to this synonym and then take it up on its arms and do what is within our power to make it a reality. Then I'd like to know that we've enjoyed a number of ministers here on that matter. The last thing I want to say is the highest. Agricultural and marine economist, who made this case very firm, both when he was in Japan and then when he was the chief official. Ministers of foreign affairs, of course, who have shown interest in this matter too. But it is important to know that there are men of the government who feel the same way. I believe that it would be very successful, especially for the Icelandic seaside if it was to be finished, but in time it will be of great importance to many other sectors too, especially technology and also the intelligent industry. In fact, Iceland has also had a field of activity in that field in Japan. In this context, it is less likely to recall that an Icelandic company with a home estate in Japan won two years ago a competition for the best production that was then put on the market, so that is certainly according to a land available. This case, if agreed, would pay for further trades between Iceland and Japan, and that would at the same time improve the interests of consumers in both countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u78	President. I recommend a judicial hearing on the construction of the road construction site on the highway. It must be acknowledged, just as it is, that the prescription is not exciting, or appealing, if it is to be evaluated with them in the eyeglasses. This proposal has a prehistoric experience that it is an attempt to respond to one of the many projects that more and more tourists are taking us to Iceland. It may not be unusual that at this meeting today, there are more than one proposals out of the U.S. Assembly Hall members who are trying to deal with certain issues involved in the fact that we are dealing with a huge problem involving both financing and infrastructure in the tourism services and the rest of the infrastructure. In few words, if we try to simplify the matter as much as possible, we are responding to the lack of a toilet stand on the street. I think all members of Congress and all members of Congress here and the rest of the group who have some contact with the tourism, tours, tourism, or other parties have come to realize that this is an independent problem. The vast number of tourists is in many places having trouble finding toilet facilities. In fact, the suggestion is simple and is about using some of the available structures. It has to do with building up toilet facilities and driving off the road. In this way, we could use new employees, infrastructure, and other outsides already available at the Road Building all over the country, ensuring management and extramarital management, that hygiene and other such requirements would be met. As part of this, the proposal to hide a minister, in this case the Minister of the Interior, is to appoint a number of workers for the searchways of highways making proposals for construction, role, and development of the road construction site on the highways of the country, including taking into account this defined situation. The population also evaluates whether to increase the number of applications, provide priorities in the construction of the application site and assess the costs of building on its first stage. The report explains, among other things, that with this large increase in the number of international tourists in the country in recent years, there would have been a more targeted investment in the infrastructure of tourism than has occurred. We're stuck with a big, small problem because it's a lack of this structure as well as an increase. The lack of policy and failure of the resources and resources of the work programme are at the root of the upcoming position. Here we are tempted to handle one specific task. Among the highly criticized are the exact lack of public halls and the lack of sanitation for tourists, too thin, and simply not to be found in larger areas. The road structure, as previously mentioned, may well have set up rest areas along the highways of the country and immediately care for these locations. Today, there are no less than 469 of these flogging sites. On the website of the Roadmaker, it says that they have a wide range of sizes, sizes, and tools. And say of them, ▪ There is a place to eat a meal, often inflections about history or manners in the immediate environment, as well as services and guidance information. It shows that there are already 27 of those resting - places in the roadtype. The road has been long experience in implementing them, here we are talking about the subject of this government since 1987 and originally for the encouragement of the Society of Leadership, a society that has helped the road to local and outdoor selection, both in its time and later in the process of building. Throughout history, the role of these sites has been assumed to be twofold, a resting - place, and a setting of view. The location is chosen in the light of these two objectives. The arrangement has developed in various ways, this is three decades, in terms of both the availability of motor disasters and other factors and, of course, all of which need to be taken care of in order to build up the project if the proposal is realized. Now, as there is a need for further building on the behalf of tourism, with increasing public halls by the highways of the country and in tourist areas, the Agency seems to hide the obligation to reimburse those who have, among other things,,,, such as the beautifully described in the report, to provide travelers with access to their bridges in appropriate conditions in many places of the country's highways and natural resources. The proposed proposal thus includes the indication to continue as a marketway through the development of the part of the highway system involved in the services of tourists, the use of available experience, the support of public infrastructure, and the development of jobs in the country where most of the destinations are of the nature of the situation, according to the facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u79	Madam President. I just want to come into this business because I'm convinced that by going this way, we can solve it fairly simply and inexpensive. I don't know if the travel center can take this up on its arms or who will do it when a team has to be formed because I assume it will be successful. I don't believe the Minister is sure that this can go into the idea of solving these cases. Do not let the solutions of this group flow on the part of the minister. We have suggested and produced various means of financing to support proper reception of tourists. On our journeys through the country, both in our own districts and in others, this is the most important thing we can hear, that there is no stopping and that there is far too little room for public or other such places for tourists, not only to foreign tourists, but also to those of Iceland. Just think of the way Cape Hornfjord, there's a long chapter with no such a situation. In fact, there is a great need where and elsewhere. It is not acceptable to gulp because tourists multiply every day, and the current is growing almost crazy because the country is not ready to receive it. It has to be said at the moment, whether it is or not. When things can be solved in such a simple way, I think, and this is a suggestion to make partial use of the existing wood, people should look outside the box and take ideas with joy. As I say, I certainly hope it will be done and that the committee will remove it quickly and safely. As noted by a carrier, this is not something that the Roadmaker has not been in or tried to do. Rather, in many respects it is used to care for such sites. At its application sites, there are already 27 toilets, so it should be relatively simple. We think it's a access to everyone so that everyone can get around and take advantage of this service, but first and lastly, I think it's about the fact that those who are involved in planning and now expected to work on this infrastructure - things are always talking about being so late ahead and therefore they can't do something or do anything but now we've come up here. It's February. This does not have to be an amazing design. It is noted, in fact, that the minister should present the results at the spring council and if the case is not put to sleep on a committee that is sadly at risk by Congress, some of this should be put to work during the summer if there is a willingness to solve the situation in this way. So the minister cannot conceal himself from the fact that ideas or designs or things are so late that they cannot be done. At least this has been thrown into the universe. Those in charge of this class may wonder, though not formally through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u80	A respectable president. I can only see that there is a suggestion here for travel reform. This specific suggestion points to a specific factor that is quite good to rule out the discussion, the destination of the road model called. There are nearly 500 destinations established around the country by the Vega program, and they are an important part of tourism. I agree with that. A member of the council and the officials of this proposal. On the other hand, I feel that there is a shortage of ideas for improvement in this council arrangement. I know it's coming to the conclusion that there's another group of work here. You might say, " Is that the most practical way? ' Is it a failure to appoint a group, though this is very clear and very specific in its working time? I'm glad, sir, it's a good time to discuss these matters. I wondered, though, if there had been a simpler way of sending suggestions to the recently formed tourist Control Center and making some indications there. It says that the suggestion involves a suggestion to move on as soon as possible, but at the same time, all of this is a paralytic. There are 469 resting sites, but there are only toilets at 27 resting places. Do we want to continue on the market, or do we not need to look at some new solutions? Then I have in mind that I could get out or place some of these places in a fetus for a private person. [[The president calls.]] Is that something that's wrong? A senator would like that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u81	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. In this suggestion, I don't think that there is a lack of ideas. The idea is to have a toilet built at these sites. The distribution of exactly what the toilets should be like, i.e. Their form and all that, that's what the group would have to do, where he wanted to start, where the greatest need was, and so on. We think there's something going on. Tourism, as well as public knowledge, has been made. That's why time is running out. We don't think it should take long to do this. That's why I said that this was being thrown into the universe. Those who are working with these matters can accept this idea, it has come out, although it is not formally passed through the council, and interested ones can take it they want to look outside the box and see this way. It says that 27 places already have a toilet. We believe that the more than 440 more can be used to set up the toilets and the needed hygiene facilities. Of the fact that we're out there, no, we don't think we need any other way out, but then the Roadmaker can do it. We are also always thinking about how much this will cost. We've got the local men, he's going to the place, and he's gonna think about these sites. That's why there's a choice. For that reason, we decided to make the suggestion rather than go into other expensive projects, where we are even in parts of the country to divide them between different parties. We just think it's a lot more time - consuming and expensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u82	A respectable president. Yes, we may have the men at Vega, although I doubt that there is a lot of human beings to distribute in a project beyond what the Road is already doing. Let us, though, assume that we have the men. But do we have the funds to do so? I have sometimes discussed setting specific green areas in Reykjavíkurburg. I've suggested putting the so - called playground in the fetus to the free society organization, companies who would benefit from setting up some information about the place and the like, putting the responsibility for business and maintenance together to five years in favor of some of these institutions, partnerships, or companies. At least I don't think that's smart for what's happened. At the time of the donation of this council arrangement, a candidate agreed to cancel the table with one idea that could cause these fine places of application to be chastised and cared for as desirable as possible, at least in the form of a more necessary service. All of this needs to be examined. I'm not in the future against a group of people who believe in a lot of work. I have no particular objection to this synonym as such, but I think it's very important that people look at it with an open mind, think outside the box as mentioned here, and do not knock off the board of ideas that could work for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u83	Madam President. However, by spending personal resources on one side and by making better use of the government, it is based on our different ideologies. Senator. I don't think it's possible to compare whether you have one little green raisin and want to take it to society or if we're talking about resting sites all over the country that the Road is doing. Hv. A senator spoke of the men we might have enough work to do. The road is already taking care of all these facilities. If more toilets had arrived, no doubt the work would be increased. That's all I'm going to say. But it's about the first and last time we make good use of the people and our public money, and I believe that we are. A senator would agree to do so. I'm not cutting any idea about the table. She just doesn't think much of me. This is probably one of the questions that this working group would consider. Besides, I have no superfaith in groups, but it's a process through the council that we're invited to, suggesting something like that, so that at least the ideas might be heard, even if that's all. That's what we're coming to. We're trying to shoot this into the discussion, and as I told you before, we have a travel minister here who's established a administrative center that I thought didn't need. Still, it has become reality, and it can accept these ideas as well as other tourism providers who come in agreement with this administrative center to shape ideas for the future about the infrastructure. Most of all, the road is to the specific places, and I think it is practical, it is simple, and it falls so that it can travel quickly. That's what we really need to do, that this is not going to be a project for the next few years, but we can just get this thing started.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u84	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct the change in rural government law, No. 138/2011, with subsequent changes, on the construction of tourist facilities. The bill suggests that the rural authorities will be authorized to permit and collect a permit for the use of nature costs and tourist positions within their boundaries. The bill means that the responsibility for tourism and natural phenomena is taken to the countryside, i.e. To those closest to them Civil authorities are not required to permit the use of such places, but if they engage in measures such as these, they must collect money from a permit release to run for the structure of the post itself. Agricultural governments themselves must evaluate the impact of collections of such fees on the work being done. The forward legal adjustment would solve the target of a bill to legalize natural passes, which was submitted to the General Assembly of 144th, but did not succeed, as well as solve the objectives of a bill to legalize the national structure of infrastructure for the protection of nature and cultural memories submitted to the Council at the same council, as well as the rest of the new development of the current council. This adjustment will solve the problem that it has not been possible to make use of the money that has been translated into the earmarked structure of nature and tourism, including lack of plans, drawings, and contractors. The bill is designed to hide the problem from local societies themselves, to negotiate with those who organize groups in their places, and to build up. It would not have to be permanent, it could last temporarily during development, taking into account the position of the enterprises involved and their own sectoral development in rural society. So if the bill is legal, then, it can be assumed that a vast and controversial problem will be solved. The bill does not contain a warrant for reimbursement at tourist locations. Rather, it focuses primarily on organized groups in designated places where a third party benefits from using where he is not directly involved, such as a landowner or a rural society. This is a matter I've been waiting to make a recommendation here at the council. As noted, in the report I read here, and following the case, I believe that the government has completely failed to deal with the challenges faced by many tourists and was fully predictable as far back as 2012 and 2011. The government has failed to cope with this problem. It spent only a year and a half in creating a natural pass bill that proved to be complex and energizing and conveying a wide range of negative effects. It turned out that there was no political support, either in a position of government or government, for the matter. So it was ruined, and all the work that had been done, and the tremendous campaign as the highest. Industrial and commercial ministers had set about all over the country to present this matter. Furthermore, at the level of the Environment Ministry, a bill has been developed that includes an ambitious long-term program, a 12-year long-term plan, of the construction of the infrastructure that is now being discussed in the Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee, and I have to say that its fate is as uncertain as it was by nature's self. Now it is often possible to do much easier than write a whole - and - a - half - law columns to solve certain problems. Sometimes it is enough to change the existing law. I believe that by the legislation given here by me might, in a very simple and quick way, respond to a crisis that exists directly in many tourist locations because the number of tourists has become such that we have not been able to build up and manage construction in these places so that there can be a sure access to tourists; that these places are used in a sustainable way and that these resources are not being handled, they are not damaged by mass tourists, etc. It has been found that the government has failed its mission, and I suggest that this will be resolved in this way. The government has now for three years in a row brought up rising amounts of funds in an attempt to resolve these issues afterwards, i.e. on autumn days; in the so - called budgets, the amount to build up at tourist locations comes. And this has not been a small amount, it has run on hundreds of millions, the last over 800 million, I think, on budgets to try to cope with this problem. But there is no way for such a solution to the situation afterward. If it is anywhere where the lack of experience and lack of vision and planning are becoming tragic in the work of the present government, it is in this category. What we have here is an advance of what has been called the New Zealand way. In New Zealand, it has been arranged so that when it comes to the use of tourist facilities, their funds, business has to make special agreements about their usefulness. They need to have special permission, to be returned from that permit, and to negotiate a certain amount to the government and to the community. A similar thought is expressed in this bill. Those who have read it and who want to criticize it have asked: " What about people who travel on their own? What about people who use rentals and go to these places in this way? That criticism can be answered by the fact that they pay to the community through excessive taxation and fuel costs. The same has been said that it makes a business as a profit to use these tourist sites as well. But it can be said that although the fishing road, of course, pays a valuable tax and fuel price, it pays for access to the resource. Many may not feel paid enough for that access, yet there is a price. This is in accordance with what is being suggested here for a company that makes money by selling access to certain tourist locations, through the manifest and the cost of taking part in the journey, to have the tourist pay for this structure. That is, in my opinion, a fair way and I think it might provide enough income to deliver a stream of the work being done in the long term. It is not enough to stand the stream of structure. Among the things people have seen on the tourist market, there is a lack of long - term thinking about these things, planning for maintenance. In some cases, some kind of active force, watch, watch, or other activities is needed, and they need to be fed. It requires money and money. Much of the bill on the natural pass meant that there was a means to achieve capital support for the development of the structure required. Here it is being done in a very simple way. Some might say that this route could choke during the birth of a new destination, or destination, that they would introduce and might not exactly have the tourist stream that it could result in such pay. If so, it is to say that the local community itself works in a circle of activity to determine whether it is possible to charge such a price, whether or not there is reason to do so, whether the sites are unsure, whether or not they are damaged, etc. Of course, some transfers of some kind could make it possible that with increasing number of tourists, the pay might increase or that after a certain period of time, the build - up process was reduced. I think this is a very good and simple way to solve a problem that we have in our society and is very much in our discussion right now. I hope this case is going to go fast and definitely to a committee and a review and then we can continue working on it in the field of environment and transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u85	President. I'm not going to extend this discussion. I want to say the first thing. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall. I'm going to put it into words so that it's an amazing mess that has taken place in the way to collect money from tourists. It is both tragic and kind of humorous to see how we have suddenly come to our senses, and we do not know what we can do. Sometimes it seems that a tourist may feel that he has become too many here, since the simple thing that it really is has failed to achieve how to collect a special price from the tourists. Men, or perhaps women, have taken long turns and very complex methods of trying to invent the wheel in the world when there are ways that are very simple and obvious. One of them's here. It's a simple way, very good, very wet-tempered, so that those who use money and make the natural world of the country on groups pay for it. There's nothing new in our mind, something called a patent. If you sell on Gold Falls and Geysdi, you'll pay for something specific for every passenger that comes. A person who does things at the Þinglell or a trial will do the same. Then, as indicated here, the rural society is to earn this income and manage the development of the situation. In some cases, safety would agree. In other cases, the safety of tourists, like the safety of all of us, falls to the State. Then it would be paid by the other fees that come in with this great tourist industry that is so important to us. But first and last, those paying the fees to come in with large groups and the government can build these places up. I have nothing to offer but the fact that I would have chosen to be an importer of this proposal, because I think it's very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u86	A respectable president. Don't worry, I won't be long on this. But I thought it best to come up here and express support for it. I have two feelings about this matter. Another is, why didn't I think of this before myself? However, could it really be that simple? It's a very simple idea that I like to meet directly in the finish line and maybe solve this strange debate. I also feel quite right to have a few words about the ideas that have occurred before and also about how the discussion around this series has been conducted. I've thought it was kind of weird. It has been mainly about how to finance something that I think most people must think of as Iceland's core wood, as the most beautiful country in the world as a tourist location, especially in view of the fact that the tourism industry has become so big. The amount of money you've heard around it is 1.5 billion, which is a substantial amount in many contexts, but I think it's very low in relation to the budget and the importance of having Iceland's infrastructure properly when it comes to nature bulbs and the interiors we need to protect nature from travelers and people who travel around the country. I'm going to observe this matter in the treatment of the council, and I'm looking forward to seeing the reviews. There must be something wrong, considering how simple a suggestion and yet so elegant. I would expect, then, that there would be some technical problem behind it rather than that the idea itself is defective because I am not quick to think of it, having considered this matter to me. I'm here to celebrate and thank you. transporters for performing the product. I hope that it will achieve the goal of lowering the waves that are rising without cause for this national agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u87	A respectable president. At times, I stumble my listeners by saying that the Council is an extremely transparent institution. We're here to see the pros and cons, members of Congress, commissions, introductions and other information that can help us understand how our country works, legislation is, etc. However, what is not quite as clear under my experience is regulations. I'm sure that anyone who has had something to fight in the Regulation recognizes the problem of being able to look up a Regulation and then has to look up a specific change in order to find out what Regulation is in place. The Constitution of the Republic of Iceland says the law should be published. It seems obvious and probably end it is, but the underlying tone there is that the city has the right to know the law in the land in which he lives, he has the right to understand the government, and he has the right to understand it well. He has the right to have a good access to information about the rules, the regulations in which they are based, and what laws they are. I have felt that the structure that is sadly accepted, that regulations are not published in an updated version, strongly contradicted the fact that the law should be published and available to the public with minimal notices and minimal delays and as easy as possible. The bill I put forth here to solve this problem is simple, but it's a change in the government and law law code, No. 15/2005, with subsequent changes. According to the Law, there is a new article, par. a, as follows, with president's permission: A change in the administrative recommendations given at Section 3. or on a contract as per Section 4. Its text should be passed on to the current administration or contract and published on the Office of the Ministry, which conducts the jury. What really seems strange to me is that it needs to be mentioned out loud. A lot of people have wondered about this, and I don't quite understand how this happened, because it's probably possible. There are many places in the administration that people find it hard to approach rules, sometimes because they feel that it is important to keep them secret for some reason. However, this has recently been discussed with the principle that laws should be published and regulations based on law. If the rules are not even published, it can at least raise the question of whether they are true, unless they are classified for very good reasons that are often not the case, at least occasionally. I don't expect to get any objections on this matter. I can't imagine any significant reason for having regulations in the confounding of their present situation, so I expect this case to have a sound foundation in the committee and in the treatment of the council, but of course it would be best if it didn't need such a bill. Of course, it would be the best thing to do if it were fixed by itself. However, in view of the fact that this has not returned on its own, I feel completely appropriate to set a law, so it's completely clear. This may also be the main theme of the future in my opinion, that legislation, regulations, and regulations are available to the public and are part of the basic rights and rights of the citizens of the country. In itself, there is not much more to say about this subject. I look forward to observing the progress at the Council and seeing what happens. I hope that the council can finally work in a way that allows us to take full care of and enter a vote case like this, which should in my opinion be in no way controversial.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u88	Madam President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on this matter, so I understand it completely because I'm not quite sure that I will. Hv. A senator speaks of opening up all the regulations, if I understand them correctly, in the legal journal, or what? Or just a web? I can't quite figure out what it is that we can't see. If we have a bill in front of us and in the bill, we refer to the specific regulations or authorities on the Internet that have been installed and you click on them, there's some Regulation. Are we saying that it is not regularly updated, or are we referring to any other regulations set out by law? Then there are some independent regulations and those that are not accessible or that are not updated, or what? This only rings in my head, so I'll just say yes, and it would be fine if the Senator tried to explain this to me. I certainly do agree that we try to make all this information as accessible as we can. We've only talked about that when you're looking in any particular case, you can't enter any number of numbers, but it's quite a hand job if you're going through a lot of bills or just through one bill, and if it's large and massive, it can be a small arm. Watch your step. A senator explained this to me better?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u89	A respectable president. I'm sure that's a problem. The rules and changes in them are indeed published, but they are published, so the changes are published, and then the regulations. In any case, this often occurs when a Regulation is published somewhere, and then changed, but the Regulation is not included in an updated format, which means that the person who intends to study the contents of the Regulation needs to feel the changes and install them himself. It's a hand job. It's confusing. It causes complications, which, in my opinion, is totally unnecessary. The objective of the bill is to do this so that there is always an updated Regulation on the web that is valid at the time it is considered, not only the Regulation in the original form but also the changes that you have to set into the original Regulation on the same site. This has caused confusion in the people here considering the matter. I also know of people in this town who have experienced it. Of course, that is so that when you have professional experience at some point, you may gain some skill in coping with such problems. I think all members of the Parliament have become accustomed to looking things up at General Sleeps, but people in town may find it very complicated. Often you may not know that you can post references or where they are found on the site. We at the Council are immune to these problems because we are so accustomed to looking up and working in this environment every day. Granted, many lawyers in a town that is not used to this in any particular problem of looking up. What I think of the main point here is that the city itself, which is not law-educated, has the right to approach regulations in the most easy way. In view of the current arrangement, I find it quite unique that there is a great confusion in the case of the public seeking information about the regulations in the country. I wouldn't mind trying to fix it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u90	Madam President. It just ran a little bit over right now. So I figured it out. The objective is to look up and examine not only the changes made or some number, but also the whole thing, as it were. A senator said, the regulations in force at the time. It's very important that she all lie underneath and not just parts of it, not just the changes. I admit I hadn't turned it on, but then when you start thinking about it and starting to look up in papers, you always see these numbers that are different now. I agree that the availability of people in the community needs to be good. Some people are interested in paying attention and even with certain matters, I think of the fishing system, but things are always changing and setting up regulations forever. True, some will become accustomed to such things and go through it, but there are others who come in new ones and want to start observing them. Then it can turn out to be a little tricky. Even if you have tried to improve the Internet and make it more accessible, you will hear that those who do not use it daily do not feel particularly accessible. So I like getting an explanation, I ran it over, and I realized what it's all about. I wondered, " Is this an expense raise for the State? ' Should it not be simple to place changes in each change of law? It'll go in whole, but not in part.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u91	A respectable president. When you do a lot of work in the system, you don't realize what's going on with the civilian population, but it's basically him that I'm thinking about when it comes to this bill. As for the cost, I don't dare appreciate him, but I think he's a lot of extras. We would never let go of uplifting national law in order to save money. I don't think we're gonna skip the General election to save money. There are certain things in a state of justice that we do not need, such as to publish in a decent way the rules and laws in our country. It's worth the fact that, of course, all of this is published. I don't think that that's all legal. It is, however, that people may find it quite difficult to understand the tools that are available to access data. And even though the web of Generalis is very good to me, I think he's incredibly efficient and comfortable and I don't have any problem using it or finding what I'm looking for, it's often so for the civilian who's going to study a case that he doesn't realize how things are put up. As a result, he does not realize how the tool works. There's a problem that I don't think will ever be completely solved. However, I insist that the more we try to solve it fully and the easier it is for the citizens to study the subject of the administration, the easier it is for the public, the easier it is, in fact, to provide the authorities with whatever form it is, whether it is in the form of a vote or a speech, a tip, a inquiry, or anything else. I think it's very important to keep this under control. Besides, I think it should be the principle. I think it should be absolutely fundamental, because, in my opinion, such a tone is in the Constitution of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record of this bill, which I think is worth every man's pay. Of course, in a state of justice, it is basic not only to lawyers or politicians who make the laws and rules but to the general public to have access to the rules they are at any given time. It is true that this is so true that once a law has been established, it can change into the infinite future as long as the founding order is in effect and, of course, the change rules are published. I'd like to mention it here because I felt that I was being a little unfair in a case. When a senator had a strain on the idea that it was some kind of secretism that caused it to be complicated. It's not like that. The problem is that there are tremendous regulations and regulations, many of which are constantly being changed. But I want to draw attention to what. According to a senator, the bill may have referred to the Ministry Homepage, a home page entitled Order.is, the Library of the Regulation of Iceland. It presents all the regulations and, of course, all of them as well as the advisers. I'd also like to call attention to what. Also, a senator's job is that the Internet code is not updated regularly. The collection is updated only two or three times a year, fall and spring. I would have thought to have had good reason to put up with the problem too, because the legislation that has been updated for the past six months is not necessarily convenient to the public in the legal library. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u93	A respectable president. I'll have to apologize if I've caused the misunderstanding that I think secretism is the cause of this problem. So I don't think I'm at all. What I was going to do in my speech, and I don't remember how I put it, is that sometimes rules are not published. Rules are that I always know how to publish, but sometimes the rules are not published, such as Thank you very much for the rules on the use of force and recent police weapons. Minister of the Interior Minister of Olfu Nordal. Secretism and not secret thinking, I wouldn't necessarily use that word because they think they have legitimate reasons for it. Then there is often disagreements as to whether they exist and all kinds of processes to determine that and also the political will. I don't think classified is the cause of this problem. I think this is a problem that has been given to weeding a system that focuses on other things, e.g. Writing regulations. I can see that professionals will be immune to such problems, understandable, and expected to do so in any system. Rather, it should be brought to the fore when there is something better to go. I like the tip of why. A senator about a ruler. It's actually the web I use. I don't know how it is technically done to the people on the floor putting this on any site, etc., but if there's something in this law, it's probably about to be added. As for the Law Museum, I don't know why it should be updated twice or three times a year, but it's something worth looking at. In the future, I may object to a different case I've recommended in making plagiarized documents computerized to eliminate problems and, in fact, create other benefits to inform the citizens of what is going on here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u94	A respectable president. Yes, we surely agree on at least the input of this bill, which is that rules, whatever names they are called, should be made available in the final form, as they are. There were rules here. Government omissions can have various names. Of course, rules are by far the most frequent. Rules are also a form of government proposals. They're always published. The same is true of advertising, as was the case at one time or another. All of this is published under the agreed regulations. However, there is something else about the individual rules or laws of the home. It can at times be bickering, and it may be normal for rules to establish such rules. It may be out of the question, if I understand the bill correctly. I want to direct it to what? The General Commission, which will discuss this matter, also reviewing relevant information regarding the publication of legislation and the change of the law and if not somehow to put it in place and if necessary, the legislation should be updated and the code should be updated as soon as possible. This bill may be missing sometime. This need to be ensured so that the deadline is not that long. For example, I believe that the collection of laws is too seldom updated. This should be very rapid if the common citizen and professionals involved in the legislation should be able to monitor the changes made from day to day often during the times. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u95	A respectable president. I'll be happy to accept the tip, and I can mention the update of the law at what time. A top-of-the-art Board of Education I own in. I don't know if it's the work or whatever causes them to be updated so seldom, but it can be proved again and again that when you do a lot of work in a particular environment, it's inevitable in some way that, as it's called, a bad word for something that's part of life and life and afflicts us all in one way or another. As I say, I take it very well. I'd like to mention another council case that I've presented, and I tried my best to explain in English. It is about the computer format of Congress and includes the history of such problems, i.e. if a computer format of Congress or Senate documents was to be used to update laws, e.g. immediately. This should be done automatically and may be automatically. In fact, changes could be published before things became legal. That would be the best thing for me. For example, if someone puts up a bill on a bill, it would be possible immediately to see what it looked like and also to see the original law as it might be converted into an updated image, both according to the bill and according to the modification proposal. This is what I suspect is more complicated when it comes to regulations. But that is one of the points I expect to be considered in a committee. Thank you. Once again, a senator for the discussion and tips.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u96	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in rural government law, No. 138/2011. This change is 1 mg. 1 1. The law that covers a lot of local agents. In short, the bill aims to remove the city's population from the city's population to expand its population religions at the next district election. In 1st. 1 1. A rural government law is required for a number of rural government officials and for the 4th paragraph, it is stated that since the population is 50,000,999, local authorities are 15 the largest. The 5th list says that since there are 100,000 or more inhabitants, local governments are to be at their disposal, as the law puts them. It is obvious that now and for a predictable future, the 5th party is meant to be a special provision for a number of rural governments in Reykjavík. Accordingly, up to 31 nobles will be able to sit at the city of Reykjavík. Today, city council officials in Reykjavík 15 are and have, in fact, never been more than a year apart. During the election period, the number of city drunks from 15 to 21 was determined to increase immediately during the next election period when the then mayor decided to reduce them back to 15. Since then, there has been no reason to increase their numbers again. In my opinion, there is no reason for the lawgiver to force the city authorities to force such an increase. Therefore, it is suggested that the city council members remain at 15 C.E. The change involved in this bill is also suggested that the maximum number of city council members be transferred to 23 but, as explained, the mayor has only once decided to increase the number of city zeal so that they would be more than 15. The increase was immediately withdrawn. There's no reason for me to go so far in law that the mayor can sit up to 31 nobles. To my knowledge, the city of Reykjavík hasn't requested such a legal warrant. The subject of the bill is of memory and of our missions especially, in particular, the independence of the rural communities. The bill is based on the fact that it is central to the local administration system that, with each of them, a government elected by democratic votes by the votes of the citizens of each community. It is the unit administration board that is at the same time responsible for its operation. This is in accordance with regulations 78. The Constitution on the exercise of rural society and, in fact, the European Convention on the Self - Control of Company members. I think it is reasonable to believe that a number of local government officials will be hit at the unit level themselves, although the legislator will certainly assume that the country's government is at hand, at which point the decision is to make a lot of them to be a member of a unit of automaton. Today, in the city of Reykjavík, we face a financial crisis, that is clear to all people, and it has actually been for many years. According to the news, only in 2015 the city's business is $13 billion. Tax revenues are certainly not enough for the city's business. This has been so since 2010 with one exception as far as I have found it. Reykjavíkurburg has the highest legal response so that an increase in income will not be made in the form of an answer. Recently, a majority of the mayors introduced a move to Reykjavík City, which, of course, was only 1.8 billion, which is not in the nose of cats, so let me say, compared with the enormous angle of the city I mentioned earlier. It's headed for the rise of urban debt between 2014 and 2016 by 30%. In this light, I feel utterly incapable of the legislative the legislatures of the legislatures of the legislatures of the city's citylike organizations from 15 to 31 C.E. Of course, I have no more than anyone else has. Senators have a basis to determine the best structure for the city's business in terms of terms of elected agents. It may well be appropriate to increase the number of city Christians. Perhaps it is appropriate to increase them considerably and have them all in half - time service. This gave me a definite connection with the career I think the city needs desperately. Besides, it may be an opportunity to increase the viewpoints and backgrounds of the city council. It may also be financially practical to increase them if this is the case. I won't say anything about it. All I know is that I don't have any grounds to appreciate it, and the lawgiver doesn't really have it either. That is why I find it very unusual for the lawgiver to tie up his hands in this way to Reykjavík. It should be specifically noted that the law of the law was introduced into the rural government by this large number of local authorities today in 2011. Until then, the city of Reykjavík was obliged to have the representative of the Council of the city of France, 15◯27. There is a possibility that this change may be accomplished by the next district elections that will completely change the legal situation in this respect. I'd like to conclude that this is not a particularly against the growth of the city councilman if the councilmen themselves consider it necessary, suitable and practical, but I believe that such a decision has to be made by the city leaders themselves rather than by the legislature. I expect this to be true among members of Congress, especially in the light of the demands that are most often presented here on the independence of the community. It's all I'm expecting but that this case is going to be well discussed. The Environment and Transport Committee that I suggest will discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u97	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a synonym to the interpretation of increased support for the ART. Besides me, the movers are a real problem. Councilmen Kristján L. Möller, Þorvarðardóttir Kjerúlf, Lára Arnardóttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. The proposal is to include the Health Minister at the General Assembly to review the State's payment rules for assisted reproduction techniques by the end of 2016. I call attention to the fact that the Senate year is 2015, but the nature of the matter will be corrected. During the review you will be taking care of the following: 1st to pay attention to health insurance includes first IVF, 2nd that the payer of health insurance is not a matter of whether a couple or a family already have a child, 3 that the pay-to-treat centre of the health insurance will fully achieve treatments where there is no fertilisation and therefore the production of embryos will not be performed, but these events will not be included with other ARTs involving health insurance payer, 4 that the payer of health insurance will include travel costs for assisted reproduction techniques, even if credit costs are not available to them. 5 to the sex cells, i.e. eggs and sperms, from specific administrations, will be passed only to one pair or to an individual. This resolution was first submitted to the last council, but it was not granted. Reports were received from the Children's Institute of Child Care, the Hospital's Nurses Council of Akureyri, the National Medical Center and the National Medical Association of Iceland in March 2015. The proposal was a positive subject, and no protest was made. Infertility is a disease that is a growing problem in this country. One in six couples may be expected to have some form of infertility. The government's payment party due to in vitro fertilization is now acting by the 2011 Regulation. According to her, she uses in vitro fertilization and micropsy. The rules were changed in a different Regulation that same year so that now the pay centre of Iceland's Medical Insurance will only cover the second to the fourth treatment, whether a couple don't have a child together for or for a single woman who doesn't have a child. After the change, health insurance does not contribute to the cost of in vitro fertilization in couples who have children together. The current rules recommend that the remuneration rate of health insurance be 65% of the reference price of medical insurance records. The time of the Regulation is temporary, as in Article 8. Hers, and has been extended for one year every year since she was appointed. Clearly, then, the present arrangement is not for the future. In view of the proposals, there is strong evidence that a minister reviewed the current arrangement for paying the State's payment. On the basis of the Regulation, health insurance has contributed to the costs of IVF. The total cost for in vitro fertilisation is 314 you. K. The health insurance payment rate is still 65% in accordance with current regulations. Thus, patients will be reimbursed at more than 204 levels. K. due to the second to fourth rinsing procedure for the current stage. The actual cost of in vitro fertilisation is considerably higher than expected in the current budget. Only one member performs fertility operations in Iceland, which is the company ART Medical. A bottle fertilization of ART medical staff cost 376,055k. By September 1, 2015, at this point, 413,60 will be costing. after reimbursement. This means that after September 1, 2015, the costs to be applied to in vitro fertilisation are less than 414 of you. K. due to first treatment, more than 209 you have. K. due to second to fourth treatment and less than 414 of you. K. on the fifth treatment and out of it. That's a lot of money. It should then be noted that microspetism is more expensive than in vitro fertilisation procedures. In addition to the payment of health insurance, there are costs for necessary tests, visits to assisted reproductive techniques and non-booster agents, but their pay will depend on the regulations for paying health insurance for the cost of medicine. Accordingly, any medicinal product other than booster should be used, i.e. antibiotics, antibiotics, etc., should be included in the amount paid for treatment related health insurance, but not so. It is interesting to consider the arrangement in neighboring countries that we prefer to compare with our health care. Iceland's got a few afterboats there. As mentioned earlier, the payment party of health insurance here does not make up the first glass and microchip treatments, but in Denmark and Sweden, the government's payment party usually reaches the first to third treatment and in Germany there is no distinction between treatments. All treatments are supplied by the State if couples reach 25 years of age. Norway contains three full treatments, but drugs up to 15 of you. Norwegian, and if an individual is on frozen embryos, he does not pay extra for their installation. The same is true of Finland, where three treatments are fully paid but 60% of the treatments in private rooms. It may be evident that since first treatment is not subsidized by the local government, there may be a heavy financial problem for couples and individuals to take on the process of in vitro fertilisation, and it may be expected that fewer people will seek such treatment, but if health insurance companies also reached their first treatment. People have to make considerable contributions to start the treatment, and it can be said that this is a barrier on the basis of a financial situation in which those who have less than one hand are less likely to be treated in the field of glass or microsurgents despite the willingness to have a child and the ability to give it a good home and training. The travel cost of assisted reproduction therapy can also be considerable and largely depends on where people live in the country. The rules currently relevant to participating in treatment-emergent health insurance costs are applicable only to the supplied treatment regimens. This does not include first or fifth treatment, etc. Technological treatments and cryoprecipitation are also examples of treatments that do not cover health insurance; hence, individuals have to pay all the cost from their own pockets, both treatment and travel expenses. Clearly, then, the use of assisted reproduction techniques is more expensive to people in the country than are people living in the capital area. Treatment takes several weeks, and during that period a patient may need to see a doctor in the capital area quite often, and this cost is quick to accumulate. It is not natural for people in the same position to pay a lot of money on account of treatments, depending on where they live in the country, to recommend equality in terms of paying health insurance too for needed travel costs. As mentioned earlier, Iceland has one company that offers fertility treatments, ART Medical. It is important that such activities are in the country, but it may be possible that fertility treatments have decreased by 10% in the last losses attributable to changes in individual taxation, i.e. This decrease is explained largely because those who need first treatment cannot start the process where the cost is just too high. Whether people of the country are less likely to be treated for excessive travel costs has not been investigated, but it would be very interesting to examine them further. In some cases, egg recovery does not work when the wishes or the eggs are not fertilized. There are no embryos in place. So there is no possibility of pregnancy. Sadly, such situations arise about 20 times a year. Then there is a reasonable argument that such treatment is fully subsidized, but it is not included in the supplied treatments as in the absence of oocyte recovery. The 5th stipulation indicates that the sex cells from a particular person should go to only one pair or individual. Now five sperms are bought from Denmark from each donor. There are no rules about how many women receive sperm from the same man. If a woman wishes to be sure that her child does not have half - worth money that she does not know, she needs to buy all the doses, freeze them, and pay for them until the doses have been used. According to the movers, this is not a good enough arrangement, but it is only natural for parents to know about halfhearted children but not to be confused with the number of female donor seeds from a particular person, especially in a small population of Iceland. It follows the additional cost of buying all the doses from a particular person and saving them, but it is uncertain when a woman starts her first treatment whether she will have a second treatment failure, the first failure will vary in duration and duration of treatment for women. Also, the buyer has no guarantee that additional sperm doses will not be bought from the same donor later, even though he has bought all five doses. The same is true of the egg cells. In 2013 the fertility of Icelandic women fell to 2.1 women, the number needed to replace the population. Therefore, it would be practical to help those who wish to have children to do so. Clearly, the revision proposed in this synonym is accompanied by an increase in the cost of government funds. It is difficult to tell exactly how much that cost may be, but it can be expected that the cost will not be substantial. The traveling overseer here suggests that the case should be referred to. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-16-76.u98	Madam President. I only wanted to participate in this discussion, since I am also one of the representatives of the matter. The last time the matter was delivered, a traveler was stopped in a pit to get the case to a committee where a meeting was about to be concluded. I think it's extremely good, in itself necessary, and I'm sure many of us know people who have fought sterilization and have had to deal with just what this bill does first and last time, i.e. The financial cost of going through these treatments. I just want to get into it when it comes to the many consequences of infertility. This includes the emotional life of those who suffer from infertility. Of course, this may be true of both men and women. In this regard, both oocytes and sperm have been referred to by women in themselves. A final study was conducted on the experiences of several women who had repeatedly undergone these therapies, either assisted reproductive techniques or in vitro fertilisation. Among other things, they entered a mental - health facility that was often felt needed. This is shown by law No. 55/1996 it is mandatory that the healthcare facility authorised for assisted reproductive techniques should be offered to those applying for assisted reproduction techniques and to the prospective administration of professional counselling specialists, such as social advisers or psychologists. The women on the final project report that the counseling is considerably lacking. The author wondered whether the interpretation of the offerer's service should be a voluntary service or should be included at the cost of therapy. It's not like that. If you want to receive such help, you need to pay for it. It is also noted that a few were offered counseling or were properly referred to. Some had taken note of business cards in the waiting room, so they could be reasoned that the law was carried out on their part. When we're talking about as expensive treatments as this one is, it also requires going to social counselors and psychologists, it's not available at all, people are not even able to attend this service. On the other hand, those who carried out the final project felt that it was of enormous importance to have the support of going through that process. This arrangement is made by the minister to review the government's payment for assisted reproductive techniques and to increase it to a degree. It's strange, and I don't quite know why it was chosen, that first and fifth treatments are not supplied. This, on its own, must have been the reason why it reduces the situation. That's all there is to it. Then you ask yourself, " Is that what I intend to do? ' Was this service to be reduced, and why? I feel that these questions are hanging in the air. As shown in the report, the number of childbearing per woman has decreased, and I think that Iceland and I have the opportunity to multiply, and the country would just benefit from the rapid growth of the nation. After the case was presented last year, I have been thinking about it and confessing that I have not specifically investigated why this decision was made otherwise but simply guided by financial resources. That's kind of all I can think of. As an authority well explained, this varies from one country to another in the North and around us. We just have to decide what we want to do. It is unfortunate that members of Congress do not have access to someone to cover expenses, plan for the past decade or what we want to go far back, how much extra expenses could be involved in the State. That's what's stopping on, and like many other senators, I'm worried that this will go into a committee and only be there. The arrangement that has been extended year after year is not something we can live in. It is essential that the minister of the seminar take this up on his arms and decide how to have this future. There is a high cost, except for the direct costs of such treatment. There are often two people, but not always, who even have to come out of the country for long distances. It is not just the cost of travel, it is also the cost of lodging, and there are other factors that fall for people who do not have equality in their case. Therefore, you might also wonder, " Is there more to pay for each treatment or something like that? There are many ways to make this decision work? ' I think it's clear to me that there are discriminatory individuals paying for what we're doing today. Once people have tried many times and decide that they are good, they realize that these methods are not effective, and they may have adopted them, and they may have been taking a lot of money into these treatments that they cannot get on list to adopt a child because the financial situation is so important. There are many things to consider in this matter. I agree with this with the sperm doses bought, so I hadn't really wondered about it until the case was put here last year that something was wrong with it. You know, in a small community, you can't really have it like this. There's something that we need to examine, i.e. how these matters have been handled, just as we need to see if there has been a significant change in the urbanisation of these treatments beyond the attendance of major capital areas. A lot of moral questions, as well as equality, will then be answered. Now the matter goes to a committee, and I really hope that there will be a program that will allow guests to be included so that we may find answers to the questions raised here and to others that will arise when others come to discuss these matters. As we shall see, this is important to many in the community. Even after one, two times, or not even to get started, there are extraordinary numbers who are already trying to make good use of that service.
