ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-131.u1	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from 8 June 2016 or later, if necessary, to 15 August 2016. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-131.u2	A respectable president. In the United States, we vote against this legal system to tell this and no further about this government, which responsibly brings here the legalization of a jugular dispute, further legalization of labour disputes, and thus weakens the systematic rights of the labour workers on the land. Instead of facing the reality that needs to be faced to strengthen the foundation of the overall workforce, this government decides to shun the labor movement on this day. By this no-good we would like in the United States to encourage the government to meet the demands of the labor movement, to look for social stability, as well as economic, in a global workforce meeting and to face and deal with different demands for the salary development of the past few years, which is the root cause of the debate we deal with here. [[The president calls.]] The issue is not going anywhere, even if you put these laws today. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-131.u3	A respectable president. Sadly, this law is primarily a sign of the integrity of present governments, not of a solution to any problem. This problem will not be solved, as will others in the labour market, since such legislation reflects a complete lack of understanding in the existing position. This law also emphasizes and reminds us of the urgency of the election as soon as possible for an Icelandic labour market and for the public of the country to take sides in how governments are the most important people in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-131.u4	A respectable president. We in Pirats say no to this proposal, especially since it is a particularly critical violation of people's civil rights when it comes to having the right to a strike. It seems that the government has become a sort of payoff center to prevent strikes, and I am simply denying that this will be something that will be practiced here in the future. Now we have to say stop. Over the past few years, laws have been passed on to strikes, and now it is just enough. When it comes to trying to figure out what is really going on, we need to respect this and get to the parties, both the employees and the personnel of the labour market. We in Piranha sit by, we stand with people's civil rights and thus their rights to strike.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-131.u5	Iceland's number tells: That, apart from the approval of the Generals, I am authorized by the Prime Minister to postpone the General Assembly Summit 145th, from 8 June 2016 or later, if necessary, to 15 August 2016. We're going to Bress, 8 June 2016. Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. The letter of Iceland's President to postpone the meeting of the Generals. By this authority and by references to the approval of the Generals, I declare that General Assembly 145 is suspended.
