ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u1	A respectable president. As it happened yesterday, 19 votes adopted the tens and hundreds of billions of dollars livestock contract. Less than one third of the members of Congress gave 19 votes to make an arrangement of huge hairs. This must require, more distinguished President, that a body of Congress should be reviewed and that none of the individual funds can be set aside by the smaller portion of the people at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. I can't say I can't say, a respectable president, to bring this up. I feel like I've become a democracies by this release.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u2	President. I'd love to say something. A senator who spoke before me, but at the same time, I want to draw attention to the fact that it was decided to have a vote here for the traditional assembly class, while no formal channel to deliver these messages to the Council of Porta.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u3	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ólína the Þorvarðardóttir daughter, thank her for bringing this up under these forces. There's something wrong when you see here at the vote table, with a vote of as large as the livestock contracts last night, 26 who don't vote, but 19 continue to carry this case through the council. I think we have some kind of need to revise procedure at the council when much of the council doesn't take responsibility for a decision as big as ours in a short future is nothing more than a contract of old Iceland, about the same state of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u4	A respectable president. During the last term, the seminar class was transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Resources by the Ministry of Industrial Affairs. At the same time, he was also transferred within the council, i.e. from the Industrial Committee to the Environment and Transport Committee. During this terms, there has been an earlier discussion of this group at the council, which was logical of the highest order. current prime minister and local environmental minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson to take the case to the professional committee. This was done in the form of a public talk, by permission of a president: ▪ In this matter, eight main factors were set out, one being transferred to a waiting class. Nobody's being taken to a reservation. On the basis of this, it is reasonable to think that the subject will be discussed on a professional committee. Here and now, it is quite another matter. Everything's under here, everybody's here. The protection party is being discussed, the waiting party is being discussed, the colony is being considered. Therefore, the matter should rightly be held at home at a transport committee, unless you have a professional view of the changes being made. [[The president calls.]] The only answers made by the Environment Minister yesterday were that she trusted a professional committee better for the seminars and considered more knowledge within the board. [[The president calls.]] There's not an acceptable argument with a minister who's handling the environment in the country. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u5	A respectable president. Thank you for the fine discussion that took place here yesterday. It is true that at the end of my talk, I referred the case to a professional committee and had personally come to the conclusion that this had been a big discussion with a professional committee less than two years ago, men had called in for visitors, that there was a lot of knowledge in committees. At that time, I was not minimizing an environmental and organizational committee, as I had previously discussed with the chairman of the great committee, who has shown that both he and the committee are truly in the arms of delicate matters. This, however, had to be the result where visitors had been called to the trade committee for weeks and discussed the matter. That is why I thought it normal that now, less than two years later, she would have the case back in discussion. [[Foreground on: unremarkable reasoning...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u6	A respectable president. I personally serve on the Committee to Overseer. The Convention reports that environmental and transport committees include on research, advice, protection and sustainableness in resource areas. I think it is absolutely clear that as we deal with the protection and energy use of land and the framework under the national environmental secretary of the country, the situation is far different from that of the professional committee under the environmental category. I'm disappointed at the highest. The environmental minister should go out of his way to minimize a professional committee that has repeatedly received large and large issues from her, improving them with hard work. I'm talking about nature protection laws, I'm calling a so-called interior bill, and now the last change in the law of Lake Bayland that produced considerably good and cross-spolent and cross-cutting results and summer work for some of us, because the case was not well prepared by the Minister and the Ministry. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But that there is only this evidence, that there is more knowledge in the trade committee, I don't think the Minister is honorable. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u7	A respectable president. If the administrative body is going to be consistent with themselves and to follow the arguments presented earlier on this matter, it would have to be a professional committee because priming options were being transferred to a novelty party, then the matter must come to the roll of the Environment Committee because it is setting up here with a number of benefits to a protection party. What knowledge is available within the job committee? Have people been protecting something there? Are a peace-telling process at the moment. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson? It's not like that. If you're going to have any argument here at one time, then you're going to get it straight. There's no way that every once and then you can come and say, "Well, because we did it this way last time, we're going to do it again now. There's just no logic. We must insist that humans and the administrative body support their language in such a way as to establish that argument.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u8	A respectable president. If this case is referred to a professional committee, it is a scandal. It is in reality not the norm to be followed in terms of how to put matters on committees. Like what? paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir made a good decision earlier, making during the last term that a frame plan belongs at the Environment Committee. There's no mention of that in 13. Congress that no comment on which cases are referred should be given to the committee. The ultimate argument. The minister of the environment before us is beneath all the caves, and cannot stand. Here, there is no masking attempt to take a delicate case party for the provision of reservations in a colony and bring him into the council's employment committee, which can be clear as to what is open to the matter. It's below all caves for the environment as a lawsuit party, I must say. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u9	President. It's amazing. The Environment Minister should not protect this party from any of the giants to be represented here through the council during its last days, for example, by the members of the Parliament and the members of the Parliament, who are specifically qualified to pass through a matter, for example. In peace. It is quite clear that if this goes into a professional committee, it is being established a political tone about which course to take on this matter, and it certainly will not, President, pay for the case during the last days of the council because it is clear that there will be no professional discussion on the subject, then it is clear that the Supreme Court will not be the case. Environment Minister to protect our environment, is not the environmental minister. It's just clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u10	A respectable president. I find this discussion completely remarkable, that this case should be submitted to a professional committee. We're dealing with environmentally, huge environmental issues, which are operating Iceland's natural resources. Of course, it's supposed to be part of an environmental committee. We're discussing that when we sign huge contracts, for example. Climate change, along the streets, is what we do on the basis of nature. We need to discuss plans like this, like a frame plan, on nature's terms. That's why this is at home. Environmental and transport committees, but not the job board. It's not about money, it's about how we achieve the best future, how we maintain our nature at best. It's amazing that the evidence comes from the highest level. Environment Minister that more experience is on the job board. It's just a disgrace.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u11	A respectable president. There are natural laws in the land that determine how the matter is listed. It does not depend on the interests of the committees. We have, for example. They were told that the chairman and vice president of the budget committee are very interested in archeological research, but they are not sent to the Minja Clinic or National Museum for their treatment. Of course, the country's prime minister has already said, while serving as environmental minister, that a whole framework would normally be being made available to an environmental committee. I fear the government is still at the same environmental hay-horn. It stands to follow the example of Þorgeir Hávarsson and to make war if possible, that they should not seek solidarity on the basis of the framework of a plan for peace and harmony but should take another step of allowing it. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and his associates are doing this with random decisions, not on grounds of any temporal material just prior to conference solutions. [[The president calls.]] That's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u12	A respectable president. In itself, it does not have to be surprising that such a course is being made. This has been done before at the council. It is clear to the members of the council that this group is on the scene at the General Assembly. This has been a challenge to the council before. Both groups also made loud comments that this was to be moved to the Environment Ministry of their time, even though they did not make a change in this regard. Of course, it is really very sad to experience here once again how you start with some personal shit in this case, but it is as if you should expect it to happen when this class comes. Of course, the employment board will deal professionally with this issue. She will, as before, send the case to the Environment Committee to get her opinion of it. We'll try to bring this matter into harmony. This framework will not be in the short time remaining for this terms of a valid period of results and will go out differently than wide reconciliation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u13	A respectable president. I don't think the government is consistent because today it says that there should be a body of Congress here, but when a vote was made about two years ago for whether any priming options should take place, the opposition to the government would want the proposal for an environmental and transport committee to go against what the Senate says. I don't look at the highest word. The Environment Minister as some kind of humiliation towards the Environment and Transport Committee, on the contrary, has shown full confidence in the Commission and has been an extremely good cooperation between the Environment Committee, the Environment Ministry and the Environment Ministers who are very successful. I put my trust in a professional health committee, listened to a word. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, who said he was going to make up, but I have to tell you that I don't know how the body of Congress is going to go to professional or environmental and transport committees. [[The president calls.]] I've been considering it, and I'm inclined to believe that it might be appropriate that this time, according to the General Assembly, should be done at the Home of the Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u14	V.E.G. President. We're about to vote on whether or not we're going to put the protection and efficiency of land on the environment and transport committee or the work board. This matter is important to the environment and to the business. I don't think there's anything to be said about that in each committee. The Trinity assumes that this can go on both committees. I myself would have liked to have the case with us on the Environment and Transport Committee, but I don't comment on it going to a professional committee. The head of the professional road committee here announced that he will receive information on the subject by environmental and transport committee. In the same way, if the situation goes to an environment and transport committee, she will seek the guidance of the employment committee. I think we should just vote on this, and then the professional committee that gets the case will be professional about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u15	V.E.G. President. This is not welcome. Here's the highest. Environment Minister and Director of Environment Committees who are not of the litigation category. And the president has so little to agree with these titles. How was the last case? Thus, there was indistinguishable logic referred to a work committee, and this was the smaller part of the council that prevented all the frameworks from being shaken. We were able to control the situation, and the case went back to the project. Now comes a so-called environmental minister, who does not trust the General Environmental Committee for the matter. I expect you to, highest. Mr President, due to the fears of the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, who believes the matter may be consulted by a committee, that we are awaiting this vote until it is determined by the council lawyer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u16	Mr. President. This has been an informative discussion. Of course, it was most unfortunate. The Environment Minister should say that there would be more sense and more knowledge in the job committee than the environment and transport committee. That was the point. I waited for a talk. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson, the chairman of the committee, I believed that he would come and push off the occasion that the committee he directs would not have knowledge to deal with matters that would directly involve protection and utilise use, but he would come here and let the minister, in effect, hang the committee on his feet, he walks the whip tunnel, and I hope he will. A senator will be a flashback as he enters the war effort that awaits him this weekend. Mr. President. I myself believe that in no way this matter can be compared with the first case referred to here, where there was a proposal for one particular project. Here we are discussing taking activation options and putting them in a protection party, and our fears are, of course, that the fate of this proposal is in store with a professional board that it should be changed exactly. [[The president calls.]] I would have wished that. The head of the Committee would arrive at least ... andhada clear opinion. It has been suggested that two senators of the Framework Party believe that the matter should be addressed to an environment and transport committee. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we, Mr. President, give them time to weigh this, and decide whether or not they shall abide by their convictions in the matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u17	The president asks the speakers to watch for a talk lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u18	A respectable president. I reviewed it earlier and quoted the talk of the then environmental minister and the present Supreme Court. The prime minister, who described that the last time one was introduced into a novelty party, it was really an aberration. His speech was very brief, even though we have not agreed. It was at least An attempt to back up professionally why a structured program should be entered into a professional committee. This is not even an attempt to be professional in argumentative to why a frame plan, a protection plan, should be joined by a professional committee, but rather the Minister decides to set himself on a high horse and judge men's ads on the committees of the council. This is not an acceptable, respectable president, and I request the Speaker's request for professional support from this Minister. Through the Commission, the Environment and Transport Committee, the number of major issues has been filled with good cooperation with the Minister. [[The president calls.]] That was the thanks for the cooperation now that she's finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u19	A respectable president. It's a great discussion here. They have occurred several times earlier during this terms as well as the first, on the exact same item. It is clear that in the United Nations, a matter of this nature is expected to be possible on each committee. Here's a suggestion to go to the professional committee. I trust both committees fully, that is a knowledge of knowledge, and that in all committees of the same state. That's why we should go to votes, get this thing over with, there's nothing behind it, so I'll answer the members of the council who've been trying to suggest that there are some underlying back contracts to do something else. All of us realize that there are not very many days left of this council, and this proposal has gone through a previous session. She goes to one of the professional committees, which is equal to the rest of the convention arrangement. Then I think we should get it over with a vote so that the committee can start working.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u20	Mr. President. I thought that there was about to be enough unclean labor division and a hairy border between the Senate committees during this term. In this regard, it may be noted that the chairman of a budgetary committee and its assistant are changing themselves to a two-man board of directors and monitoring committees. But I find it unfathomable to listen to the Environment and Resource Minister suggest that it be proposed to the NTSB. Of course, it is symbolic before this government in this field, and it clearly intends to end as it did in that regard. There is no evidence to support this conclusion now that there has been some kind of tradition for the abnormal reference, and therefore it should continue, as well as a different kind of growth. This is in the work field of the Environment and Resource Minister, the proposal is not only to be used, to wait and protect itself, and you finally ask yourself, "Why don't the parties take the step to the finish and move the category from the Environment and Resource Ministry or put it down by the government? Is that what they want most? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u21	A respectable president. I am very sorry that in this matter of national protection and energy use programmes, the last few moments will be a controversy over where the proposal will be paid within the council. It has been tried to settle down in this matter all along, and it has been very important for me to be able to work on both sides in that way. True, the motion here is presented in my name, and I will not compromise but in cooperation with the Minister of Energy. That's what this suggestion is, and I was able to do the same in yesterday's history. It was an unfortunate word, so I say once again, I pray that respect for the unfortunate word I used yesterday, but repeat, though it was my conclusion that because of the work that had been employed in a professional committee, it would be normal for the proposal to go there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u22	A respectable president. It's not true at all that this has been claimed, that the matter, according to the Senate, can go to any committee. That's not true. By 13. Parliamentary decisions on how to protect and use resources should be made to an environmental committee. After the decision has been made to use a resource, it is a subject for the job committee, but while the decision is taken to make a decision that the natural environment is adopted into a category, it is at home on the Environment Committee. V.E.G. A minister partially withdrew his argument, but what she was doing here on the table yesterday is in my opinion because it is not too hard to offer such reasons for passing a case between committees in a confusion of the council. I agree with what's been said here, they're supposed to be looking for legal decisions on this. The Congress cannot accept this proposal until a legal opinion on where the matter is at home. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u23	Mr. President. As vice president of the professional trade committee, I'd like to get involved in this. We received a comparable case on a workforce at the time, and it was very controversial. I then spoke up that the Environment and Transport Committee would get the case, that was in her case. They did not listen, they went to a professional committee, and we know all the roses in it. Since I am a trained person, I would like to give the highest guidance. Minister of these materials, i.e. to cover the issues of environmental and transport committees but to suggest that both committees work on their progress and agree on the work of the environment. I think calling the same guests for the committee over and over again is very bifocalal because the most recently requested a job committee for environmental and transport coverage. Why not try looking at this so that the committees work together on the case and bring visitors, but that the matter was with an environmental and transport committee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u24	A respectable president. This is a frightening hairstyle program that is taking place in this discussion. It is according to the Congress that a professional cartographer should handle marine, industrial and energy, innovation and technology, employment in general as well as resource use based on research and advice. The Environment Committee reports that it operates in general the protection and sustainable development of resource resources. This is a matter of utilisation and protection, and it can be seen from this text that it is full of logical support under the Congress that this matter is referred to by the employment committee and, in fact, to a much greater degree, as it says that the use of resources should also be discussed on the basis of research and advice. That is exactly what the Governing Body is doing, she is a counselor in this process, and she has done some research, and this is a clear statement. It hasn't been changed. [[The president calls.]] Of course, they're just the hairs that have nothing on the table in this case. Let's just finish a vote on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u25	Mr. President. V.E.G. Environment Minister has said that his comments were unfortunate, and he has called them in contempt. I'll take that into consideration, and I hope the Senate will do the same. The point under this article is not at all crazy, but many of us who participated in the discussion yesterday found it well worth considering if it could not be approved. For both wings, this may be the best part of the discussion. However, the beginning of this and the conflicts right here will kill any possibility that the matter will go through. That's why I'm pointing it to the highest level. Minister that she reexamined her position and grant the will of those who want the matter on the environment and transport committee. It is a chain of peace, which could lead to reconciliation. I am prepared to pay myself to do so. The other way is by which this case gets stuck here, and it won't make any sense. That's the smart way we're supposed to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u26	President. It's a little strange that no reasonable conclusion can be reached at this workplace. I don't understand. We have a short period of time, and I'm gonna try to be just positive. During last night's discussions with validating the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People, we agreed to use the work that has already taken place and to try to ensure that the matter will go out at this council. However, here it is, once again environmentally, immediately agitated for no reason. I challenge the members of the greater part and minister to revise their minds and settle this matter into the professional committee where the best knowledge is available.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u27	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir brought in a very sensible media proposal. I agree with her wishes and ask for it to the highest degree. The president will interrupt a meeting and sit over it at the highest level. Environment Minister, who made the suggestion that this case should take on a committee that they are not supposed to attend according to the Senate, whether a Minister can accept the sedentary proposal. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. If it doesn't work out, I'll ask for it, tops. President, that the president will stand with the council, and not hand it over to the executive to interpret a party after his own practicality, but to have them do a job where it will be done, where we'll go in the Icelandic legal capacity, whether this is over his head, and whether we'll be assigned as the Council to have this offer. [[The president calls.]] These are my suggestions, and I would like the President to comply with our wishes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u28	Mr. President. It was weird to hear the highest. Environment Ministers pretend to be surprised that her proposal created here a conflict. I don't know what she should have done, considering the background. To the extent that the terms of engagement are not decisive here, which I believe they are, and without any reason to reach a different conclusion there, but to the extent that they do not feel it is intended to be made into an environmental and transport committee, to what should be viewed? Yes, to work in Iceland's Board of Directors on the basis of a canal. The seminar is with Environment and Resource Minister. What law has been proposed in this regard? On the legislation under the Environment and Resource Minister. If there is any doubt in the matter, this is what one usually sees and acts accordingly. Therefore, it is highly unusual that this proposal from the Environment and Resource Minister that takes the group to the NTSB should be referred, a committee generally not taking matters from this minister, but from the rest. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u29	A respectable president. First, I would like to reiterate my position that I believe the president should discuss with the Commission that there is an acceptable reason here for making decisions, as this is being done. It hasn't been done, not on professional grounds at least. It goes on to say in the Convention on Environment and Transport Committees that the Committee deals with environment, planning and research, counseling, protection and sustainableness of resource resources in general. So clearly it says here. If a plan for the protection and use of natural resources does not belong to this definition, what then? And that Environment Ministers are not to be sided with their members at the council, standing with the lawsuits that are in her field, is totally incomprehensible to me. I am so sad that people are taking this matter again and again in an unnecessary dispute. During the last term, the matter was simply moved to an environment and transport committee that discussed the latest programme. [[The president calls.]] It was due to an variation that was short - lived by a local environmental minister, the current prime minister, considered on the job committee. The matter belongs on the Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u30	A respectable president. It is appear that the Council of the Council will take much more of the initiative to refer this matter to the Council's Professional Committee. It is humiliating for the Council to handle the matter this way, and it is humiliating, of course, for the jury to agree that the U.S.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-14-152.u31	A respectable president. The fact that this Conventional Reunion proposal for a national protection and efficiency programme has arrived is a great source of joy. Therefore, it is hard to believe that humans cannot try to finish it in harmony. Rather, they are guided into this course. I have to say, I'm not going to vote on this case, but I've talked about the time I've spent at the Council that the environment would be done at the top of my head and that the Environment Committee, of course, should discuss this matter. I believe, however, that it is so important that the case is granted here that I will not delay it, but I would like to promote these views.
