ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u1	To answer, Ministers of Industrial and Business, Education and Culture, Social and Housing Ministers, Fisheries and Agriculture Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u2	A respectable president. I wanted to ask the highest. Industrial and commercial secretary how to find out about the natural pass, i.e. what would it be to learn of the government's plans for some sort of pay-off by tourists who may be exposed to the high costs to be met, including in a number of natural sites around the country. Here were plans to develop a special pass of nature, which certainly fell on rocky soil. Thoughts have been made to raise the cost of lodging. Previously, there had been a number of other suggestions on how to increase the value tax score in the tourism service and on the table. It's about to be three years of the election season, and I have to say, it must be in the highest order of time that we get a conclusion to the highest level. Ministers are going to do it during the election season in this country's great interest. We need to expand much infrastructure for the tourism services, and it's important that the cost does not land solely on Icelandic taxpayers. It is only natural for those who come here to attend the services and enjoy the natural world of Iceland to share in the cost of it. The dignity tax is lower in this article than in local products; therefore, it is probably to consider whether depositing such as the host's debt or other such items can help us finance important structure on the major pearls of the country. I think we all agree that it is absolutely necessary to show the respect it deserves to attack the infrastructure that has become a great need to go to the most beautiful places of nature in this country. That's why I'm asking the minister, "Where is this now?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u3	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. It is true that this hall does not have any news that natural pass programs did not succeed in their time. Since then, much has happened in the field of tourism. We have cooperated with the article and with our rural communities presented future policies, so-called travel guides, the urgent tasks and measures needed to ensure the growth and survival of these important sectors. I have to say, the cooperation that has been achieved by the Management Board of Travels and the good guidance we're working on has been a success. You're right. We're going to need to add on the inside. We have to make up for a number of situations that have been put aside, and that is what we are doing. We've made sure the extra money's on it. In terms of receipt of tourist locations, it is clear from the guide that currency should be emphasised for worthwhile activity. That is what they are doing, among other things, on the United States Hall. It is a payment for services to form parking places and toilets. In terms of the earnings of tourists, changes in the merit taxation system that the senator is expected to know well, both by increasing the lower level, by reducing the upper level, and by reducing the number of accessions. These changes are taking place, hopefully making more money from this industry. [[The president calls.]] In terms of the remuneration case, such a decision has not been made on a new bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u4	A respectable president. I must be disappointed that there are no plans on the plane to pay money for tourists. I don't think it's unacceptable to pay it from the current state funds, to finance in many areas of the welfare system, and to be loaded down in many parts of the community and many projects that state funds need to be handled. There is nothing more than for the tourists who come here to share in the expense of the infrastructure and to ensure that the major pearls of the country are in a position to arrive. I ask the minister if she is proclaiming a further increase in the bottom step of the valuable tax tax, if her speech should have been understood as such. I would like to finally encourage the minister to put up with the cost of the stay, which is a very low price paid by tourists to be paid for hotel service, a fee known around the world, simply to increase and make money of it, in order to maintain a decent standing in the welcome of foreign tourists in Iceland, without the loss of taxpayers or welfare services. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u5	A respectable president. To remove any question: No, I'm not offering further increases in the lower level of the value tax tax. I've just described the change, and there are now a number of reserves that will be making more money for tourists coming to the country. Not to be overlooked is the fact that we already earn a huge amount of money from tourists. These sciences are not extraterrestrial. There are several ways to collect income from tourists. All of them have advantages and flaws, and these issues were made clear at the time of our discussion. I suggested a natural pass, which I still believe is a good way. It did not succeed, and then it is the situation we are working with. There are advantages and difficulties in raising the host's fees or setting a comeback or raising taxes in other ways. This is something we will undoubtedly consider in the future. The important thing is that we are taking this sector firmly and insure the infrastructure and support of the article very well by the actions we have already made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u6	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Marine and agricultural minister and regional minister on whether or not the government's decision is to expect counterweight measures for their communities and the workers who are the largest population affected by the Russian embargos again following Iceland's decision to join the EU/NA club on criminal action against Russia. The Agency returned a report on the impact of this report as early as September last month, and it can be asked which report was prepared if nothing is to be done with it. Now, the government has recently decided to continue and extend these actions against the Russians, which means that at least some of the ban will be held with a very significant impact on workers, fishermen too, but especially land workers and many settlements that are highly dependent on water resources. This is true of Thord and the surrounding territory, Redfarves, and Langanes, which is especially true of the world of weapons. - If it's the highest. A minister wanted to customs in the hall while there's a place to speak with him. This refers to a planet of weapons in which seawater management is the only land industry in the area, and the Far East, Deepavog, which is hit by a heavy impact when a fire market closes into what hit that place when the wise men took away all their seaports and the rest of the world's food supply. And continue, of course, the Cape, the Island, and so forth. This is particularly difficult for a small population of monotonous employment, and the workers in the country have found their annual income with a high level of work at freezing up resources. The loss of income is a significant factor, measured by hundreds of millions and billions of land workers, sailors, and rural communities. The population is affected in two ways, i.e. both in lost income and in less remunerations. Mr. President. My assessment is that the cost of government or country's foreign policy cannot be walked by land workers and weak and few communities. You can't expect a man to send the bill to a weapons farm when he makes decisions of the kind he made by participating in these commercial pressures. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I ask, Is it not possible to expect a government decision to counter measures, and to what will they be charged?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u7	A respectable president. It's a little strange. A senator is so desperate that Iceland should follow its alliances in action when he himself was taking an army into Iraq, supporting that decision without asking very many here about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u8	...answering the questions instead of outbacks.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u9	It is true that the Parliament's report shows that land workers are experiencing considerable damage. We have been considering how they can be met. It is wrong, however, for the senator to believe that it is only the actions of the Russians that did not result in excessive smoothing this year. Sadly, for some time now, the hairy population has been relatively small, has walked in historically small amounts, we can say, up to the country. Even if Russia's counter measures did not result in any of these, there would be small hairy development in all of these places with the exact same loss for land workers. It is right to realize this without accusing the government of it. I'm afraid we have no control over the forces of nature. It would be interesting, however, if the senator were to come up here with suggestions on how to handle different areas of life. We have stressed, and I have said in many interviews that there are special opinions on weapons and on the other hand, Deep-Pursing, in fact, different circumstances in these communities, such as in the case of a failure on the other hand, as well as the Russian embargos and its effect on products from Deepvogia, would be responsible for our having to meet them. There's a planned meeting at the weapons conference on Monday, where the locals will be informed about what parts we're working on. [[The president calls.]] A building agency will do it on behalf of the government as well as on the other hand. A senator actually knows, I hope.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u10	Mr. President. I thought it was the highest. A minister does not build himself up by meddling in this matter. I didn't say a single word about the rightfulness of Iceland's involvement in this operation. This is the result of the decisions I am discussing here, and the question is what the government is going to do about it. In fact, we've been discussing foreign matters on the political issue. I kept him completely out of this. Besides, I know, at least. Seafood and agricultural ministers, it's heading for a low fur tangent. I'm not that ill-informed about fishing and settlement in Iceland, if ever. A minister is concerned about that. V.E.G. Minister wants me to offer some positive suggestions. Yeah, I'll do it. The wage workers are to be paid on bail, at least for the same time as they would have had their jobs at the cryo-conservation and how this affects their entire life span and that is to compensate their rural communities for loss of income due to response and revenue. It's minimal counterweight action. Fortunately, there is no need to worry about the companies. They're big and strong, and they're gonna do it. However, landwork and rural areas are to be supported. The cost of this foreign policy cannot be dropped, regardless of whether we claim to be justified or not, unrelated to it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Or is going to the highest. Minister himself with the bill to the north of Thors Harbor, the check north of the weapons farm, the check east of the Deepavog? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u11	V.E.G. President. It is good, though, that we agree that the primary cause of harm to our land - workers is that of the hairy failure that could, in the case of yes, have happened and, unfortunately, be expected to take place and, on the other hand, have the most impact on the Russians'efforts against us and obviously have on the Deep Lies at this time. As the Agency's report clearly showed, this has a significant impact on land workers and we have hidden a graffiti to cover it better. Among other things, we're going to have a community meeting at the crime scene, as I mentioned, not on Monday, I think I've been wrong about it, I think it's Tuesday next week. We are trying to find solutions to meet specific communities, including, of course, our communities in some way. We had a graffiti to do that, and I expect we will be able to report it with the locals next week.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u12	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Social Affairs Minister on the issues of children that I'm very interested in. As has often been the case in Iceland, issues involving young people, their relationships and feelings are very focused. We hear stories about harassment, group fights, arson and oppression. Sadly, these are stories that have been becoming evident, and parents describe how their children have had to go through things that are not desirable for young people. One of the projects that have handled this problem is the ART project in the Southland. It's been on the budget for the past few years, and it was in the last time of a 20/20 plan of the last government. The staff of the project are three, and they conduct a ART course for all grades workers, conduct a course for members of the Social Services and Health Services Centres and manuals, and strengthen the staff who are starting the ART training for the first time. Another very large and important aspect of this project is family-account called since the team strengthens families with children who are having problems in their relationships, who have lax social skills, and who have difficulty making moral decisions in daily life. Now the project has been operating for a considerable period of time in the Southland, and it can be said that it has an enormous joy in the area. It has yielded a truly positive result. Among other things, in the fall of the fall, a annual meeting of the Sunnian Company concluded that the project would continue to be successful in the future. That is why all the employees and people in the South, who enjoy this service, were to be put off on the last budget. This was not expected. Fortunately, the project was financed until the next year, but I would like to ask the highest. Minister: How does she support this assignment? Does she have a vision of strengthening it over time and even making a contract for several years to eliminate the incredible uncertainty of this matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson very much for the inquiry. Hv. A senator went through the history of the ART project in the Southland and described the satisfaction that has been enjoyed in the territory with the project. It was Generalis's decision to provide funds for the project in 2016, and I have entrusted the Children's Health Organization to negotiate and reserve the funds set out by the General Assembly. As for the future, I join the senator. It is vital that we take careful care of our successful assignments. Last week I had a meeting with the head of the National Institutes of Children and Family Protection and mentioned specifically and requested that we work with the National Institutes of Research where we take out the ART project and the experience with it, also a so-called PMT project taken over by the Children's Protection Agency that had previously been at the Hafnarfjörður Farms and MST projects, three titles I mention here. All these activities have been tried and have been a source of great joy in many ways. However, these are projects that have been developed and researched abroad and then introduced here. I think it is very important to review the experience and look into it that there is not always a transfer of methodology and approach directly to Icelandic family conditions and to Icelandic children. That is why it is so important that professionals who are currently employed in Iceland's University to assess the results so that the Council can continue to decide the future of these projects on the basis of professional information. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u14	Mr. President. I must say, these answers from the Minister make me very happy. In effect, she answered the second question that I was going to direct her to have this assignment taken out because it is the wish of those in the assignment in the South that it will be carried out. It was published in 2009 by the National Social Science Institute of the University of Iceland, which concluded that this was an enormously good project and was needed. That's why I'm very happy, and I know it pleases those who are involved in taking it out. It is hoped that this year's conclusion is possible as soon as possible to make a decision about the continuation. It is as bad for people who work in this sector and uncertainty, not knowing what the future holds, and perhaps living with that question all year, to survive, or not? It would be far better to do this work with a long - term plan in mind, since it is for financial gain and people can do a whole - souled job. This team is a team of good professionals who work hard to help people deal with the problems I mentioned earlier. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u15	A respectable president. I thank you again for the inquiry and for the senator's appointment to this of ours. There is another factor that will also turn to the General and to us in the Ministry. There is the line between the services and the tools the government wants to offer in cooperation with the rural communities responsible for child protection, our schools, our social services, and the other things our communities are supposed to be doing. I have also emphasized the importance of such projects that they are offered nationally, so that we are not showing partiality between children and families or trying as much as possible to prevent them. But I think it will be very important and interesting to have these results, and then the Allied council will take their stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to speak to the highest. Marine and agricultural minister on the future of the country's settlements, on the seabed in this context. Now it is clear that the Minister has ceased to provide a bill of the changes he felt could be made in fishing laws, and thus the minister and the government in which he resides and his party have yielded the final wealth in the affairs of this important sector, which has so much meaning for the settlements of the country and the resources of the individual parts of the country. To avoid misunderstandings, I'm not suggesting to the highest level. Ministers again contribute the bill he offered to the council in his day, and I will not call for it. But we do know that the problem of the cry system is that many of the country's habitats are under siege, that the system shuts down human employment freedom, and that individual areas are in order to take advantage of the marine resource that is right in the landstones. Since a minister does not trust to change his own reservation system, I would like to ask him if he trusted in other things. Then I'm particularly concerned about two things, that is, first of all, the beach fishing that was established in the last government and have brought many settlements to the rescue, has brought life into the ports of the country, and has led to the development of previously closed posts during the summer period. How does the minister visualize the future of the beach weather? In order to improve equality and employment potential, would there be an even greater need to establish them, to clear up local rules, and to improve localisation? Similarly, I would like to mention to the minister the possibilities of the last government, and he, of course, shared in the discussion. It was an idea I put together with a boy. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir and ended up in a bill about the change in fish control law by 20 of you. a ton of auctions, which I think could save a lot of blowtolls and seamless cooks being able to walk in and bid on. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u17	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say, and I know that the Senator and I don't share the opinion that our opinion is that today's amendment system is very good, and there's no reason to change it. That wasn't the purpose of the big bill. It is true, however, that the senator will not fail to fulfill the Kingdom government's ongoing task to secure solidity in the land. In these areas, farming is important, but not as important as all other activities, such as tourism, but also other activities that we expect to be maintained anywhere in the country. Of course, these issues have to do with a community plan, and I know that the senator was involved in a meeting that we thought was the first entry to work with a new seven-year community plan. Many items will be recorded there. It is also what the government has, the 5.3% that the state holds in all species, and we use in various ways in settlements, a special settlement based agency that came to talk before, beach fishing, and linemaking, and something else. This winter's project is to recommend a spring eulogy proposal for how we will make the best use of it in the long term. To this end, we have got the University of Akureyri to report how the present system works. There's a lot of positive results in this report, but it shows that the system works in a number of ways, but in different ways. For example, it was odd to see that in the city of Reykjavík, a large - scale beach fishing was the most effective one in the United States. I know that wasn't the point of putting them on, but that was an interesting extra point. [[The president calls.]] We're going over this and starting this job. I trust we can have a good conversation at the council as to how we can guarantee solidarity in a clear way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u18	A respectable president. It may be that the smokers have been comfortable, that's all right, that they were so brilliant in various other areas of the country that they desperately needed that injection. I think it would be important for that area if there were any rules to clear up the beach fishing system, revise localisation, and make it a more permanent and more powerful alternative than it is today. But of the highest. A minister named the mactanian and the space in this 5.3% within the present quota system, that is merely a number of your 61⁄28. a ton. It is a dinner that governments assign like some kind of handouts to the settlements. It's just a whole different thing than auction-offs that rare and saluting types can offer free offers and get assigned without having to become tenants for the big estate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u19	A respectable president. In fact, 5.3% are I think significantly greater than the senator mentioned. I think it's about 30 yards. the ton of cod, and there are no albinos, there are general rules, groundwater and, of course, coastal fishing is legislation that everyone can participate in, then there are rules on line integration and reform, etc. All of this is being revised. I had a pro board last year to review the system as it is today. They had a meeting of a lot of people. They agreed that there were a number of factors to be considered. Although that was not the conclusion of the synopsis proposal made last spring, they agreed to continue on that course. I'll have close cooperation with all professional bodies to work on it because it is important that the way we're going, the State, is political reconciliation, and will bring in solid, real decisions and that the system we're going to have for a long time will be better than what we've had. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We know a number of examples that have given way to individual settlements, but this is even more so because other things are not started in those areas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This also requires that we work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u20	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss the expected market agreements. In the short future, we have been critical of the amount of money that goes to agriculture in Iceland and have called for good discussions about how they would benefit. We have called for greater diversity in funding, and also called for a high degree of environmental protection and support for environmentally sustainable agriculture. I will see in the market agreements how these points are addressed and how the financial expenses are justified. But one thing seems to me to be positive, in view of the introductions I've got at the expected market contracts, and that's that, it's getting better in agriculture. It seems to me that it is an attempt to meet a changed world picture. We no longer live in the danger of overproduction in agriculture, nor do we have to live under agrienvironment schemes. The scene facing this world is a matter of great demand. There is a high demand for clean and good food, as Iceland does, and it is evident that agriculture in Iceland is looking very closely at increasing exports. That's how I interpret it. For example, it has the opportunity to export a lamb's meat and an export to a skirmish. We live in the real world that Europe, our major business countries, is naturally very high on agricultural products. I hear from a series of farmers that they have become more interested in enjoying tax freedom in business dealings with Europe. Then there's only one way. It is walking in the European Union. That's what I find very interesting about these livestock contracts. I think this is the way of agrienvironment schemes to realize that the next step is, of course, to walk in the European Union and enjoy commercial tax freedoms from Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So, in the next few years, will not the agriculture in Iceland require that we enter the European Union? Isn't it the Minister's cold food?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u21	A respectable president. There is much in it. In the first part of his talk, a senator went over what he has heard is intended in the present contract, which looks to the better hand, and we agree with the senator. It is a more versatile agriculture, ensuring growth and better farming, ensuring consumers low prices and wholesome, safe food. We look at climate issues and how agriculture can contribute to them. We watch that we can make sure that we have safe food in order to develop antibiotic resistance that is increasing in the world, and some experts have compared it to climate addiction. However, the senator's error is that there is only one way. Most of the world's countries are going to negotiate free trade agreements. We've got a 35. We made a toll agreement with the European Union, which will be introduced into the Parliament along with the market agreements, which involves mutuality, allowing it to take advantage of opportunities there. In these contracts, the European Union offered perfect tax freedom for import and export of lamb, while the European Union rejected what shows natural blacker than any other layer of the European Union's customs union, in fact, and keeps everyone else away. There's a lot of calendars that are much higher than in Iceland, even though you could keep one of the local discussions. [[Up front.]] The agreements are just to ensure a greater variety of agriculture, more powerful settlements, and what we were discussing here. At the same time, consumers are to be returned constantly a lower price and to ensure safe and good food that I think is not just a requirement today but, rather, a growing demand for the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u22	A respectable president. I agree with the highest. A minister about the world's growing demand for food like that produced by Icelanders. Clean, delicious foods. Quality food. But I cut by one in answer. Minister who is great news to me big news, big news. In other words, the European Union offered a tax-free trade with lamb and did not receive because the European Union wants to put on Customs. We're not in the European Union. This confirms in my mind what I've heard from many farmers that we want to move out more, and there's very little competition with Icelandic lamb in Europe, in our leading business countries. But we are not in the European Union, so we do not have complete access to the markets. It seems to me that if we take the agriculture as an example in Iceland, he's looking at more exports and it's going to be high enough that we're not in the European Union. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u23	A respectable president. I'm not going to argue about the European Union. I don't know how many in this room are interested in joining it, like it's still there. [[Take it up to two.]] Two hands in the air or three. However, it is quite wrong for the senator to interpret this way, since the customs contract is that I think about 3 of you. tons of food for export. We'll make you about 10 o'clock. a ton. The number of sheep in Iceland is not the goal of itself. It is our goal to increase the profit we gain from that article. Then we have a number of tax treats with many other countries that can ensure that we can enjoy freedom of choice in that business. It has been worked in this area, as in the fishing field. But the report is that the production of Icelandic sheep is produced on world market prices. That's the story. Over the years, it has been successful to ensure that, with the support of the State, we have become competitive at the price of this wonderful product and can offer it at other markets to a higher price than we have seen to date. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u24	V.E.G. President. I will direct two, three questions to the highest. The minister of the so-called TiSA agreements, but I have several times in the General Meeting's hearings reviewed the development of the TiSA negotiations, Trade in Services Agreement, contracts for the market service trade, and put these talks in the historical setting of the GATT agreements by the World Trade Organization, World Trade Organization, which began in the mid - 1990s but sailed to the coast ten years later, in 2005. In the left, we've tried to stand this watch and do it for a long time. I'm here reviewing a proposal for a resolution made by the entire body of Congress in 2003-◯2004, we repeated this case, asking for an assessment of the GATS contract, and actually presented in our own Congress of our own thorough review of the case. So we've been trying to get to these things. I also call attention to the fact that the labor movement, especially BSRB, has been on this watch, when the GATS deal started in the mid-1990s. As I say, these talks sailed on the coast of 2005. They stayed secret for a long time. In the spring of 2002, the British newspaper Guardian informed of the content of the agreements, and the opposition to the discussion grew. Previously, we recall fierce protests against them in Seattle in 1999 and in Europe. Now it is WikiLeaks who has taken the role of the informer of the TiSA agreements that follow this GATT interview. If it hadn't been for WikiLeaks' entrance, we wouldn't have received the information we've received about the TiSA talks. They received us in the summer of 2014, when they had a talk in April of that year. The question is, What is involved in these agreements? First, society's organization is to be negotiated, to move certain areas of service into a marketplace where equal authority is to exist, both within and between nationalities. Consider an example. If we established the field of health under TiSA, we would not be able to deal with tax differences between the Power House and the Land Hospital. Also, if a foreign health service company arrived in Iceland, there would be no discrimination against it. I'll just explain, but it'll be noted that at the TiSA interview, the Icelandic government has made clear that the basic health - care centres will be free of these talks. I have been happy before to do so. However, what will be done with other health - care factors is not known. The TiSA treaties are different from GATT in that they had a signed total base and then picked men off the base, but in the TiSA interview, they put them on the contract table what they want to negotiate. Second, it is with these agreements to find that they are irreversible. What the present government will do for future governments and future generations. This includes a Kingdom Hall. Third, the idea is that disagreements that may arise from the legal rights of the countries involved in the contracts and be subject to the laws of the big corporations. Fourth, let us go along with the 50 richest nations of the world against the poor world. 123 states were involved in the GATT interview, but now 50 states are going to put the other one against the wall. Fifth, it is unacceptable that it is behind a curtain. It's all supposed to be open. Foreign Minister will tell you what the Ministry has done, not what the general discussion has done. [[The president calls.]] Now I'm asking the highest. Secretary of state and I shall be very brief: 1st What has been the contribution of Iceland to these talks? In December, I look especially at the Geneva Summit, as the Morning Press was well informed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] 2. Says it's the highest. Secretary of state has said so before, including. in answer to what. paritaprevir My daughter, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, that the deal will not be made public until it is completed? [[The president calls.]] Does what he said to me at the council of March 2, last year, state that the matter will not be taken over by the General until the contract is concluded? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for taking the initiative in this discussion. This is the third time we've discussed this matter at the General Assembly. During the first two times, I reviewed the big picture, and it was right to do it again in a very short matter. In fact, Iceland's involvement in these interviews is a logical continuation of Icelandic government policy over the last few decades. Iceland is a representative of the 1995 International Business Convention. Iceland has been an active partner in international business discussions for decades and a representative of a score of free trade agreements with some 70 countries. The service trade is growing in Iceland's foreign trade. It is the fragrance of the fast - growing international trade. We are under obligation to participate in this and to ensure the position of the Icelandic enterprise on this international market. This is a routine business discussion that is in the routine. These interviews are not really different from standard business negotiations, including free business talks. Most of our major business countries are involved in these discussions, including the EFTA, the United States, Canada, Japan and the EU. Regarding the process, it can be stated that as always, it is the cooperation of several advisers and other parties. As I said before, these are standard interviews. Regular consultation is made with key parties associated with this, stakeholders, including employers and employee organisations. All decisions are made by the Ministry of State, which is currently a continuation of discussions, and after events in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. Iceland's contractants are fully involved in every discussion, and our position is developed in a discussion with the Ministry of the Management of the Ministry. We will need to increase this further as our emphasis grows, and these discussions need to be resolved. The Foreign Affairs Committee has been informed about progress. They have been discussed at the Assembly Hall and have been made available in reports to the Generals. The agreement, like all agreements like this, eventually throws Generalis into agreement or innuendo. To react, ask why. Of course, I am prepared to examine the case so that we can have discussions at the council before coming to sign Iceland on the street. We go through it, and there's nothing against it. Of course, we'll pay for the deal in the end. It is proper to state that the European Commission will discuss these discussions like others and end up making a contract for the council for a demonstration or approval. The situation of the contract is now that it is being planned to complete it this year. Text work has gone very far in many chapters and extensions, but of course, it has not been completed until the game has been whistled off. We have taken very seriously the concerns we have had regarding the lack of information we provide. Everything on board is what we're saying and doing. They asked us what we had done. Of course, our opening offer is on the web, and then we regularly update what we say and do. It's very important that it's done this way, that everything is on the table. We can't print, though, the data of other countries. It's their job to do it according to their laws and regulations. In general, I'd like to add that I think that countries that are equally dependent on the agreements as far as this is concerned, small states such as Iceland, can promote their policy and work on furthering their trades. I'll be in my second speech coming in on more points. However, I would like to note that the decision was made in 2012 to take on this process, and it has been developed ever since. It's gonna take a long time. We know this, and it is also important that we keep our minds on things. There are no factors involved, such as health care. A senator rightly mentioned. All of our contracts are based on the offer available on the Department of State. There is no authority to negotiate anything but there. We also need to keep in mind, and I'll come in after that, that there's a misunderstanding with certain things. For example, let me mention that any commitment we make is reversible. It's a mistake they're not reversible. At any time, we can tell us about this deal by the government. [[The president calls.]] I will then address further questions in the second talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u26	Mr. President. Hv. Jónasson Thank you so much for keeping us alert and keeps the rest of us from getting caught in the aspiration of the international capitalism. I think it's important that these contracts are always criticized. There are a few things I would love to come to. First, this agreement began innocently, and it was quite clear in the past government that it stressed the importance of having everything on the board and the process all that is transparent. As far as I can see, I'm getting the highest answers. Ministers but that he followed that line all the time. I think answers are the best. Ministers on charges that some sort of secret or dark act is going on very credible. WikiLeaks has claimed otherwise, and I thought it would be wise for the minister to say, at the same time that Icelanders publish on their website a contract offer, it is hardly possible for them to ask for an invitation to Iceland to inform others of a contract. That's important. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Have any wishes come from some sources that the Icelanders use some unusual covert on this matter? On the one hand, I feel the same way because of the way the matter has developed, because there has been a great dispute and an accusation that some kind of dark act is going on, and no one should get involved, that the Council should discuss this matter before it is approved. Therefore, I rejoice that the Minister may say so, but I would like to make it clear that the requirement of the United States is that this agreement be discussed at the General Assembly before it is established by the Commission. Then I want to ask the highest. Minister to the report that appeared in the December 3 issue of December 3, that Iceland had had some special means to prevent the continuation of different types of energy, such as wind and nuclear energy, fossil energy, and the energy produced by rocks. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's totally in opposition to the conclusions of the Paris Conference and in opposition to Iceland's official policy. Is this true?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u27	A respectable president. It is the way of pagans and customs of nations to negotiate, and we Icelanders have joined many international agreements and have taken over many international commitments, and this commitment has generally been mutual. In this case there is a switch to services and there is a large part of the import and import. Last year, this was about 47% of total transport and 38% of total transport. If I know how to calculate, that's about 20% of national production. This is important. Especially in communities where economic growth has become a service, and some EU specialists have to be exported. This is important to us. I can only say the highest words. Secretary of State on the fact that once I've been planning to get information on these matters, it's been going pretty well. It may be that I am having trouble finding the bargain goals of other nations, but I believe that their sovereignty is in order to keep the cards in their own hands. But our offer is open, and I have never found it to be that the Court is obsessed with any international company. It is part of a controversy to make a case and the other that if a case is adverse, it may be possible to withdraw from this agreement. I believe it is very important that the Republic of Iceland is a member of the international service trade contracts and is delighted to be the highest. A minister will provide further information on the matter as this continues. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u28	A respectable president. I'd kind of like to reiterate what was presented in my speech in March last year when we had a special discussion about the TiSA deal, focusing on transparency at this job, and the fact that things are on the table. I welcome those words to the highest degree. Secretary of state that this course is being followed. It is important, not only in general, but it has become the development of information and the requirement that the public can observe the activities of public members and coverts around this sort of contract. I would also like to agree that it is important for the General to have a thorough discussion of the matter before a contract is established. I would like to remind you that, of course, these are discussions that are in the middle of a deep, probable long, complex discussion of many years. Many of the things that have been presented during the discussion about the contract are not even on the table or just suggestions from some countries that have not been accepted. I think it's important to keep it up. Of course, it is important for Iceland to resist some form of expeditation of power to total international wealth without our involvement. It would actually be against the Icelandic constitution to hand over power to such charlatans, so they say. But on the ground, I believe Iceland should be involved in international contracts. It is in our best interests as a small country that it is a global and international environment, and we are to follow through on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u29	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Impelled by Jónasson's son for asking for this discussion. It is vital that we be enlightened into what lies ahead. I would like to read a short analysis by writer Bergsveinn Birgisson, who I like very much and sum up what I would like to say, with the permission of a president: The agreements themselves, set out in the name of a luminary, are to be kept secret to the public until they are approved and signed. Those behind are rightly afraid of the consequences if the common people know what this is all about. In short, it is the final victory for the rich over the rest, who will not be able to comfort themselves with terms like democracy anymore. In the words of Joseph E. Stiglitz, the Nobel Prize winner of economics, such agreements serve the interests of the richest American and international financial and commercial groups at the expense of everyone else (New York Times, March 15, 2014). The European Parliament's report supports here, the TTIP Convention will provide economic growth of 0.01 of national production, some days to or from time to time. The yellow root, however, is improving the interests of an enterprise to the extent that trade barriers are being made. Let us examine the side of the shadow. As a result of leaking on WikiLeaks regarding these agreements, an increased level of power is recommended for big companies, including Through even stronger laws outside national and international laws and regulations. Behind this monotonous court, there are 75,000 companies, which can be legalized national states if their laws and regulations violate the European Commission's ◯ future interests. The cost of this matter will depend on tens of billions of dollars for the nation, the chance of working is negligible. I will continue to read this article when I receive a second talk. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u30	V.E.G. President. There's a lot of dark things, at least vaguely, when it comes to TiSA. The deliveries of the agreements that have been published publicly were not of the party's initiative, but after they had leaked and WikiLeaks published, they decided to form Iceland to publish all their data. It certainly is good for itself. However, we do not know anything about the agreement goals of the other states we are negotiating with, but we do know that the commitment between TiSA and the commitments planned in GATS is generally expressed. Indeed, it is true. Minister says, of course, Iceland can't produce the contract goals of others. But what Iceland can do is encourage other treaties to publish their contract goals. I'd like to direct it to the highest. Minister to even speak for the provisional documents from these negotiations published in order for the public to know something about what is going on. Public service and delicate areas such as health care have been identified as the exception of the contract, at least As far as Iceland is concerned. But I ask, will it open, and will be part of TSA if the service is private? Where does a private service land? Private clinics, do they fall under TiSA? Now, questions like this, I think it's very important that we get an answer. Finally, I believe that we will discuss the agreement at the General Assembly at the time of the hologram. If we are going to finish this discussion, the General Assembly will have to discuss it before it is published and signed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u31	V.E.G. President. The debate over TiSA has been a major concern in classified affairs and the market for public services, as well as that the Icelanders would possibly lose their sovereignty if the contracts went through. I agree with some of the points that have been made. True, we must be cautious and critical. So I was happy to hear the talk. Secretary of State how effective the information flow has been about the TiSA agreement to the general public and extensive consultations have been made with the Department of Professional Services, subspaces and stakeholders such as ASI and BSRB. Special websites can be found on the Department of State, where regular reports of negotiations are published. There's a list of who will be attending the negotiation meeting on behalf of Iceland, what was discussed, and when the next meeting is scheduled, along with the documents proposed by Iceland in these negotiations. Therefore, I consider the information provided to be exemplary, both to the public and to the General. I also find it helpful to hear that the Icelandic government makes it clear that no commitment will be made to the market access to foreign providers because of the public service now and that Iceland has made clear that its ownership of resources and the management of energy resources outside the scope of the proposal. This is a very important thing. Most important, the General will have access to the case before the contract is validated by Iceland, as has been the custom of free trade agreements. So I don't think there's any particular danger. Yet, it is vital that we senators stay awake, especially with regard to possible sovereignty. Of course, that is not possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u32	Mr. President. It seems to me that the discussion that has taken place underscores that there is considerable misunderstandings or differences in the understanding of the members of Congress on what is found in this agreement. That's why I think it would be very good if it were the highest. A minister would take the initiative to give the council a thorough report on what is going on and to consider some of the factors discussed here, especially those in the health sector and the energy sector. I can agree with that. Apparently, a minister worked hard to get information about Iceland. It should be emphasized, too, because the labor movement and its battle against a number of factors of this agreement have been particularly tore apart, that at the beginning of the case, it was arranged by the conference to consult with ASI, BSRB, BHMR, and other relevant parties. It seems to me that Iceland cut off from other rich people in that way so that it's much more transparent than in other countries. But I would like to agree with that word. paritaprevir Sunning Steinunn's Árnadóttir that Iceland should take the initiative to encourage other countries to promote their data as well. All I want to do is to swerve here the news that appeared on December 3 of the morning paper after a negotiation meeting. It was literally claimed that Iceland was involved in the management business of recording TiSA regulations that directly made it necessary to eliminate energy analysis by energy market from the source of energy. In other words, coal and nuclear power should fall below the surface of the earth's energy, wind, and solar power. In fact, in the morning newspaper it was said that Iceland had been another two countries who would have taken the initiative. I feel like the highest. Secretary of State has to tell us if this is right, and if it is, he has to explain why Iceland is sending messages that work against Iceland's goals in other areas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u33	A respectable president. Many things have been presented in the discussion that correct the misunderstanding. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson began with his introduction, and I'm not going to go over it specifically. I don't think there's anything to say about it. Minister of State is trying to keep something secret and to encourage those who insist on doing so to access the Department of State's Web and consider what is being discussed in the TiSA conferences. I think it's good that we only think about it and remember that we Icelanders once were a very poor people. In the last century, we were the poorest people in Western Europe. In fact, we're in the EFTA Free Trade Association with Switzerland, Norway and Liechtenstein, all of whom share the common possession of being very poor, as different from the nations. The fact is, if we did not have access to other markets, we would still be a very poor people. For example, in order to maintain the rightness of other markets, we must be able to refer to judicial decisions. There is no doubt that having access to such things is more beneficial to smaller parties. Big companies go their own way. The big parties go their own way, but the little partners need to think that the rules of the game are equal and that they can point things out if they are violated. I think if we're seriously thinking about trying to help poorer states, not just on solemn occasions, we need to open our market. That's the fact. However, if we are going to keep them where they are, let us close them. And then let's not take part in a vacation business interview, no matter what their names are. Then let's just shut it down. But let us not say: " We want the poorer kingdoms to have it better. ' Without a doubt, the best way to help poorer countries is to open their markets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u34	A respectable president. Perhaps the following part of a talk can be said. A senator before me that we live in a world where we have closed rings. The rich nations have created an organization, whether we call it Schengen, the European Union, EFTA, or anything else. The nations have bound up with organizations that rule out others. When we consider world conflict between the north and the south, the poor and the rich, we may wonder whether the concept of national and national boundaries as it developed in the 18th and 19th centuries has become strange today, especially with the commercial environment of the world. Businesses have become much more international, capital exchange is taking place at the rate of the electronic clock on microseconds across the globe back and forth. The danger is that large business partners gain very much power and that small units such as nationalities actually find it difficult to defend themselves. A small country like Iceland has a lot to do with treaties like this. It is very important that countries such as Iceland are not subject to the strong power of the strong, strong, international, or otherwise. From that thought, I feel that it is important for Iceland to participate in these discussions, monitor evolution, and participate in the decision - making process, but of course not just any conclusion. [[The president calls.]] Iceland also has to work to make it good and to the public of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u35	President. I will continue to read Bergsveinn Birgisson's article, with the permission of a president: ▪ Already such matters have gone through with other vacation agreements. The French big business of Veolia sued Egypt because the government legalized the minimum wage of its citizens. The Swedish company Vattenfall trial Hamburg, Germany, who was trying to reduce the activity of coal plants in the city's name of pure air. [...] It is not only a ◯ store barriers to our area but also the laws and regulations that protect the interests of workers and consumers, and especially the interests of all the world's people in environmental matters. [...] With the TiSA deal, big business companies are given total power in the name of vacation stores and economics to them. The agreement will cover about 70% of the international market throughout the world ministry, ranging from financial to health care. On WikiLeaks' website, it can be read that privatizing laws are unremarkable, meaning that countries cannot reimburse key public services, although they will experience an even worse condition when a distant big business begins to run a nursing home or a national nursery school. I remind you of the action of Rio Tinto with the workers in the studio, but that's just a foretaste of what's going to happen to international companies. They come in with soft hands, and if they don't get what they want, they're threatened as we've seen happening at the Straumsvík. Then let us keep in mind that the secretism that has been around us is not some form of persecution. Congress officials in the United States have been threatened if they want to access, for example, TPP. However, it is believed that this agreement is hidden from my secret body from the TiSA so that I encourage senators to come to the ground gently and not swallow raw things that are right. Then it is very important to remember that we must have an opportunity to analyze the technical reporting in this case, since it is not for any living man to understand the technical requirement in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u36	V.E.G. President. One historical fact that is proper for the occasion. These talks did not formally start until the summer of 2013, in the days of the present government. Otherwise, I have to say that with important exceptions, this discussion has been chilling. That's when I stop at the highest statement. Secretary of state that this is a standard business discussion. It's not. They include a Kingdom Hall. The agreements are irreversible. If governments that have undergone specific requirements withdraw them, they are at risk of causing damage. This is where the GATT deal rests, and I don't know that we're still working on it. On the one hand, a ruling authority is brought from the courts under penalties, moved from democracy to the capital. This is a fact. It's another government deed. The other chilling is a statement of the highest order. Secretary of State that he does not rule out any of these events before the council. There are many of us who feel that the most natural thing to do is to tell ourselves about these contracts. But there is a firm and clear demand of the left movement ◯ green supply; it has sent it from this day forward repeatedly, that we demand that this case be taken up at the General Assembly before any letter is signed. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Then I'd like to say something else. We haven't known what happened in Geneva in December. It discussed Environmental Services in the case of energy generation. It is now that Iceland has a lot of work to do with the energy sector, and it's our job to pay for the streets of such companies. [[The president calls.]] But realize that it is one thing to negotiate with a state, even a poor country, for such assistance and business, but to force and force it into such a business model is immoral. [[The president calls.]] To this end there is a protest from the poor world. [[The president calls.]] It is immoral for us to join in this conspiracy against the poor people of the world. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u37	A respectable president. First, I agree that it is likely that there will be a discussion on this matter that will allow us to do better time. Second of all, I agree with what you say. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, don't swallow everything they say, including here in this hall of those who speak against these contracts. It is also important to keep that in mind. The agreement calls for no change in any form of public service. She is a free person in general, and to wear a belt and shoulder bond is specifically stated in Iceland's bid. The contract does not include commitment to private service. What's more, the state can bring a private service back into public business, so it's chosen. There are no rules in GATT and if they choose to resume public service, they will not be in TSA on reformal states. All commitments are reversible. According to the International Business Organization, TiSA will contain regulations for the solution of issues and have proved to be very useful to small countries. There's gonna be state tackle, not business. The contract does not limit the right of the Lawgiver to establish legislation in the areas of the contract. It will be in the power of every state to establish laws on the rights of foreign service employers, etc. I'm going to answer a few of the questions that have been raised. I don't know how Iceland's been asked to hide things as well. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson asked about. It is wrong in these December articles that we have used ourselves to show that different types of energy could not be distinguished. The documents that WikiLeaks referred to in December had arrived on the Ministry's Web in March, then months earlier. What we have stressed is that in the field of energy research and energy services, such services can be rendered abroad by Icelandic experts. Nothing in what we are suggesting is that humans cannot distinguish between energy or use the energy they choose. So many other questions and questions have to be answered in this matter, so I completely agree that we need to create a platform to discuss this better in the next few weeks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u38	Mr. President. On January 20, the UNICEF presented her report entitled "The Rights of Children in Iceland: Children Who suffer a material shortage. UNICEF card analysis shows that in 2014 9.1% of all children in Iceland were missing. There are over 6,100 children, of whom over 1,600 suffer a severe shortage. I allow me to state that anyone who follows this discussion feels unacceptable. But what are we going to do? How do we react to the bad news that the number of children in this position has more than doubled since 2009? UNICEF's analysis is a highly valuable tool that governments can use to identify which way to help families in the country. It is based on the importance of UNICEF, the United Nations Children's Fund, on equality, i.e. That all children should have the same rights as all children do. The UNICEF method aims to distinguish a wide range of childhood deficiencys and makes it possible to investigate deficiency from many areas and different background variables. The children themselves and their circumstances, not their entire home, are watched. A good analysis of data that sheds light on the quality of life of children in Iceland is essential for the progressive implementation of equality among children. UNICEF has noted that such analyses can be said to be a key factor in the successful implementation of the United Nations Children's Covenant. The analysis is performed in cooperation with the Haust Office, which carried out the lack analysis, using the data that had already been collected in this country. This data comes from an Annex to the European Union biography study, which is submitted to homes in Iceland each year. In 2009 and 2014, a special Annex was added to which information on child status was specifically collected. It would give further evidence of where governments should be carrying down and how their future information would be collected annually. The data can be examined in various ways online by different fields and background variables. You can choose how they appear and how they are compared. They thus benefit from all who want to learn about the material deficiency of children in Iceland. In short, the results say that there is a child in Iceland who is a boy whose parents are less than 30 years old and they only have basic education, in the lowest income range and in the rented market in the larger towns of Iceland, a boy born in Iceland who is the only child in the home, and the parents have a ratio of less than 50%. The area most children suffer from need is a home. Less than 9,000 children suffer such want. The most common reason is a narrow town. Also, there is insufficient daylight available through the housing window. More than a quarter of the children who have parents who do half a job or less are suffering from a lack of housing. This suggests that the group of parents and students is a minor. The same can be said of unemployed, single - parent families. The children of tenants differ greatly from the children of parents in their own housing. The children of tenants are more likely to suffer in all areas. The rent - house failure and the support of tenants have been over a long period of time. Higher rent compensations, along with a marked increase in tens of tenants, would meet the child's problem. I remind you that a panel of invalids and students has expressed concern that the system changes announced in these topics will delay building up their homes. Such delays must be prevented. The analysis of the child's interests requires that the structure be accelerated. The area in Iceland where children suffer from second - site lack is social life, followed by a lack of clothing and recreation. I believe that in addition to more rent rents and more renters, the government should respond with higher child reforms and a change in maternity vacations. I think if a child's settlement was paid out monthly, they'd better use children for socializing, leisure activities, and better clothes. Children's compensation is now paid every three months, and such slangs into the economy are often used in ways other than monthly entrances. It is also necessary to review social security so that children are not more likely to suffer from disability. The same can be said of the amount of student loans and the support of unemployed. After this brief review of the very important diagnosis of UNICEF in the situation of children suffering a material shortage, I would like to ask the highest level of prayer. Social and housing minister on how to react to the conclusions and ask how they intend to respond to the results of the Ministry of Health and the government on the other hand. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to take the initiative in this discussion. I think it's very important that we discuss this here at the council and even take further steps in making it a rule to deal with the social factors that are regularly published by the Habitat and were delighted to take the initiative of the Vel traffic Watch in its own time. At the outset, I especially want to take this opportunity because it is so pleasant that we are here with the United Nations Children's Fund to observe the discussion, and thank them very much for this initiative. They approached us and introduced these ideas, and we found this to be very positive. We went on to make a decision to give special support to the work done. Like what? A senator has passed through these two years, 2009 and 2014, comparing a general lack of the quality of life of children and a substantial lack of quality of life. Both are recommended for 12 details of the life chart. So here, there's an analysis of the available data. What I would like to say is that for us to understand and understand those years of reference, we need to realize that the first reference year, the beginning of 2009, is colored by the unusual situation in our economy. It was at the end of one of the greatest goods that had been here in Iceland and at the time of the beginning of the crisis, the lack was small, but it was followed by the effects of the crisis. This is what is then reflected in the biomarker study of 2014. In that year, of Europe's countries through Eurostat, it was decided to drive a so-called child playul, which was repeated in 2014. Of this, the United Nations Children's Fund has pointed out, i.e. that there is reason to consider whether we should run this analysis more often than Eurostat has suggested. We'll take it up with Haguen and hear their advice on whether it's right to do it more often than is done in Europe. It is also a new standard, relatively new, lack of material things. We have previously visited homes below low income limits, and we see that in recent years the number of people living in homes below low - income limits and also the proportion of children living in homes that have a very difficult time making ends meet, so we are working out of the crisis. This is not a reflection of what is least in improving employment. Unemployment, for example, has now decreased by 1%. We find that home is much better, and by 2015, buying power increased by less than 8%, which is most unusual. However, this deficiency analysis goes further through the data and helps us to make decisions as to how best to deal with the children most in need of our assistance. If we look at only positive things, then the nourishment of children has improved. It's also interesting, and something I think we need to think only about, access to information, access to the Internet, and access to television, has also improved, but at the same time, it is striking to see how prominent the lack of the house market is. This is also in line with the Office on Financial Stability Report, which showed the importance of paying special attention to renters. It is also true what the senator mentioned here that all of our figures indicate that the most likely families with lack, lack of economic goods, and have the worst in Iceland are in the tenures. It's a much higher proportion of young people. Some 4.4% of those 65 years of age or older have a lack of material advantages, while 15.1% overall are under 65 years of age. So it is this group that needs special attention. Here was the importance of social housing, and I really want to agree with it. The number of social apartments has grown little. In fact, waiting lists are very long in favor of the rural communities that are in the front of all of the worst in Iceland, the number of apartments in the rural population since collapse and the funds that have been donated, both by this government and by the last, has not even been used to develop in this regard. [[The president calls.]] Here, too, was given the importance of increased housing support. That is exactly another bill that is designed to address it in the treatment of the welfare committee. Finally, I'd like to mention another project, even though it's less and less money, which is the experimental project Mittens, which we've just signed with the city of Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]] It turns to helping especially those who are the worst and those of their children. [[The president calls.]] Hopefully, this can lead to a continuing service.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u40	Mr. President. Poverty is a social ill. As a result of growing up in poverty, children can be greatly affected and their prospects for future life are impaired. It has been observed in interviews with children who have lived in poverty and who lack of material advantages that have a profound impact on their spirituality and their lives. They have feelings of inadequacy, that feeling, and often avoid association with peers outside school because they feel that they are at risk of being teased because of their economic situation. The lack of children is measured by clothing, education, information, housing, recreation, and social life. The report shows that there is a shortage of some 9,000 children when it comes to the housing of large urban areas, as mentioned above, but also that there is not enough daylight available through the windows of the house. The children of tenants differ greatly from the children of parents in their own housing. The children of tenants are more likely to suffer in all areas and have tripled since 2009. That's why I'm worried about how a social and housing minister believes that her housing products, as they are presented today, help solve that problem. Unfortunately, it seems to me that they make provision for a small rented apartment and do not necessarily have to make enough daylight. Another issue in the report that is disturbing when children's circumstances are in such a way that they cannot invite companions to their homes or celebrate birthdays or other milestones in their lives because of poverty or otherwise want. We also need to pay close attention to the development of material deficiency among young children and to make sure that all procedures take place in different approachs and allow room for individual service in different positions. DURING 2014, I am correct, although I am of a lower cast, the students in East Africa sang songs. I encourage people to listen to that message on YouTube. Sadly, the report confirms that children who are unemployed or who have less than 50% job ratios are more likely than other children to suffer in need. A 12 - year - old boy said, "It's our job to make sure there's no children in Iceland is missing. " Poor children and children suffering in need cannot wait for the action of the State and the rest of those involved in these matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They need to dress themselves up and let their actions speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For bringing up this important but very sad case, a Oddný daughter of Harðardóttir for bringing up the matter. The results of this report are striking. Although many in the world have to endure poverty and discrimination, this is no excuse for us. Our responsibility is our shame, and our duty is not to disappoint those children. Their youth is here, and now, and if we refuse to enjoy it because of poverty and the few opportunities, we will not be able to make up for it later. These matters must not be silent and complicated, and then put at the bottom of the pile. We are to set priorities for children, and especially for children whose feet are bent. For this and nothing else, the United Nations Children's Covenant was made, and to this we wrote under it and validated it, making it Icelandic law. The report shows that the proportion of children suffering from a shortage in Iceland has more than doubled since 2009. More than 6,100 children are expected to suffer a material shortage in this country, of which nearly 1,600 children suffer severe lack. The proportion of children experiencing significant lack has tripled since 2009 and is now 2.4%. Mr. President. After all these numbers, children of flesh and blood, with feelings, hopes, ambitions, and a desire to have a chance in life and to become happy people. Is it acceptable in our prosperous society that more than 6,000 children live with a lack of material wealth and endure serious discrimination? No. We are embarrassed that here on earth are children who are missing out not only on opportunities that their companions have and feel self - determination to pursue social life and sports, to learn musical instruments, to travel, to enjoy life, but also to children whose poverty does not receive adequate nutrition, live in bad and uncertain homes, and wear poor clothes. Mr. President. Of course it's a disgrace. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u42	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for starting this discussion. The United Nations Children's Covenant was legalized here in 2013. It includes international recognition of the rights of independent children and guarantees special protection and care for all children. For all children to enjoy their rights, they need to know what their different needs are. As we have seen, there are 9.1% of children in Iceland who have a material deficiency and lack of housing by UNICEF deficiency. I want to use this opportunity to thank them for winning this report and presenting it to us. For me, the only goal is that no child in Iceland will live in poverty or want. One child is too much in that regard. It is our duty that no one, young or old, suffers want. The measurements we set were performed at the end of good health in 2009 and then at the end of the crisis of 2014. It is, therefore, a pleasure to see the number of children with poverty and poverty, but it is important to keep track of the situation. It is important to remind you that four basic social ministers are before the council and are especially presented to meet those who have fallen. The goal is to build thousands of apartments over the years to meet the demands. Work on the bills is successful, although for a number of reasons, it is reasonable to conclude that needed changes will be made that are generally at peace with a health committee. A respectable president. It is our job at the Council to prevent children in Iceland from suffering want. This, however, occurs primarily by promoting the interests of the parents who have abilities and abilities and who live at a low rate. Diversity and strong employment are essential for the well - being of the country not only in order to increase the number of well - paying jobs but also in order to live up to the well - being of our children all. [[The president calls.]] Agricultural success in Iceland will increase, and this will be the key to a more successful future for all children in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u43	President. Thank you for your discussion. It is clear that this so - called kindness that has already begun does not come to those who need it most. There's an emergency at a lease. Even if the shelters can pass without much change, it will not solve the emergency. It takes time to build up and correct what is wrong. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister what to do in the meantime. What should be done for the 13.4% of children in Iceland who are in need because of housing? In a more accessible summary and report from UNICEF, it is shocking to see that children are now experiencing a more severe lack than when all is taken together. Can you imagine, there are 3.2% of children in Iceland suffering from a lack of nutrition, not enough to eat? I don't want to live in a community like this. We have a lot of money we can share in the same way. There must be some way to handle this serious problem. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether she can explain in a very simple way how to solve the problem that children now feel more severe in Iceland. I want very clear answers about operations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u44	A respectable president. How painful it was to listen to the presentation of UNICEF, the United Nations Children's Fund, on the following report! There's nothing to do with the reference year, of course, the situation has deteriorated since 2009. This year, however, is the most important day today, so we must act now. We should look at the numbers as they are today, but don't start asking if they're right, if they're showing it or not. The latest year shows the situation today, and we need to respond to it, and we need to do so right away. The United Nations Children's Fund pointed out that it would be good to collect this information more often and mentioned that it might cost several million people to do so. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is she willing to use this money to collect this information more frequently, once a year or perhaps another year? I'd also like to mention what surprised many, i.e. that a young couple with one child may be classified as one of the worst - handed groups. Why would that be? Is it because a couple's child care starts to get hurt very quickly, and they have to have almost the lowest wage in order to get pedophiles? Is it not necessary to view child - welfare, not as a compensation, but as a family reward for young people who are having children and who are helping their children in that case? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u45	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss the United Nations Children's Fund, UNICEF, as well as the results of the analysis of children's interests and the government's reaction to their findings. Indeed, it is a useful report, although the conclusion is in its nature gloomy. It's important to take it here, and I especially thank you. paritaprevir It's a new Oddný Harðardóttir, a verbal vendetta, for taking the job. I feel that 6,100 children are truly striking numbers and that 1,600 children suffer a significant material shortage is utterly unacceptable. We're not supposed to accept this position. I have quoted earlier the words of Mr. Bjarni son of Karlsson, who has studied, discussed, and wrote about poverty. He says that governmental action is inadequate, but here a change of attitude is needed, not unlike that. paritaprevir Bjarnadóttir said it earlier, we're supposed to look at the situation the way it is and react to it. The issue lies ahead, the children are always victims of these circumstances. For what is lacking and what factors are mainly involved and what groups are mainly lacking, domestic, employment, education, and housing are always relevant. We also know that it can often be a complicated order behind poverty. I think there's a warning that there's a plan to take action where we can directly take action.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u46	Mr. President. For example, if we watch the welfare community or the welfare system in Iceland, it is first younger than anywhere else in the North countries. Swahea and Dana, in that matter. Third, I'm afraid it's long been a symptom for us and we're somewhat different from what it is like in other parts of the North countries that we have not been very successful in developing a family welfare community in this country. This has been published and published in various forms, in the report showing us, inlerable poverty far too many children, 6 yous. children aged 1515 years suffer a physical shortage in this rich society, with a very serious deficiency of 1,600. Of course, this is also true of young people who do not have sufficient faith in the future or who do not consider their interests to be well - paying. This is simply reflected in the flights of young people, despite all talk of goodness. We lost 550 people last year when we were 201⁄229 years old. They are young people, either to bring children or to the point of making them. The solution is obvious. We know who she is. Children's families need to be added to the conditions of their families and to support the most income - dependent families, those who need to create a family's welfare society with more intensive child support, a longer birth vacation that bridges the way between birthorfs and high school, through pay - free play schools, few takers of children's families would be better than a currency school, a housekeeper, and support for the money shortage of people because of housing supplies, and a society's tax system against income exchange. [[The president calls.]] The costs are available in Iceland, but they need to be right and properly used.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u47	Mr. President. Of course, it is the national responsibility to set priorities for the poor children and to destroy the ills of poverty in the modern world. As reported in the UNICEF report, it is not important how a child in Iceland lives, where he lives in the country, or who his parents are. The child is to be able to take the same opportunities as all other children. Such equality is guaranteed in both the Icelandic constitution and the United Nations Children's Covenant, which we Icelanders have legalized. I challenge the Ministers and Ministers all to have the United Nations Children's Convention as the first team at the next government meeting and to use the entire meeting and, if necessary, all meetings this year to review carefully what needs to be done in order to give their word so that poor children in Iceland will be remembered. I can tell them that they could immediately begin to make sure that the targeted, regular, and structured information on the status and ideal of children on the land is being collected. That is not how we can get a clear picture of the situation and the development of these matters. If we do not see the problem, we tend to ignore it. We're gonna stick our heads in the sand. And if we do not see evolution, we do not know whether we are achieving a satisfactory outcome. I am, Mr. President, not alone in urging the Icelandic government to ensure a good collection of data on the state of Icelandic children, since a surveillance committee with the United Nations Children's Convention has repeatedly pointed out that these matters are not all right with them at all. Mr. President. I assure you that the vast majority of the Icelandic nation wants their priorities to be set in behalf of children, and especially in the interests of poor children. All you have to do is get started and have done more than the words.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u48	A respectable president. One child in Iceland who has a shortage is one child too much. I want Iceland and I to set the goal very high for the children and young of this country. One of the important things to ensure the benefit of this group is to listen to the voices of young people. One very important thing for young people to know their rights is that they are instructed about what is happening in their children's covenant with the United Nations. Therefore, yesterday's Senate resolution was made that the date of the birth of the children's covenant would be dedicated to instruction on human rights of children and young people each year for this group. I believe it is very important that this proposal be approved at this council. It was not approved by the previous council and was not established. The results of the lack of children in Iceland recently introduced by the UNICEF are, of course, to make it easier, or should be, for governments to meet the children who are suffering from a national shortage. What can we do? What are we gonna do? I would like to thank UNICEF very much for doing this report. I also stress that the figures that concern the interests of children will be available every year from Iceland's Habitat. This is not done now, and as I get closer, it takes relatively little to add a question to the living room's research that affects the interests of children and young people. I'll score here to the highest. The minister of well - being and prime minister of Haguems, who is the minister of the Habitat, will take immediate action. I would also like to direct it to the parents of this country to put their children in first place forever and never give them a discount. Similarly, children should not suffer physical deficiencies, and they must not suffer emotional inadequacy and emotional well - being of children and young people is something we need to have good information about as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u49	President. I want to thank you too for this discussion. I think it's very important that we discuss this much more. What really bothers me is that this is not new news. I took a look at the old news online about children's failures in Iceland, and these figures have been striking for a long time and getting worse in the last few years. Children are found to be simply in violation of the human rights of children. But what is the penalty? There are repeated violations of human rights, the human rights of children, but there are no laws. How many people are behind these striking numbers? How many adults are behind these 13.4% in housing? I know what it's like to be in the lease with children or children and how much insecurity it is to never be able to stay anywhere longer than perhaps for a year. It is also part of the lack of confidence in knowing where you go to school as a child because your parents always have to move. In contrast, parents of children have had to move back to their parents because they are in a ten - rent emergency. Then we'll see, topv. Minister, that there is a rift between the government parties on the solution to the housing problems, there are not very many in the Independence Party on how to solve this crisis. So I reiterate my question to the highest. Minister on what to do in the middle of the situation. What should be done if these elements fail to deal with the future crisis?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u50	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister and minister. Councilmen for their indentation. As we have seen, there is a sharp difference between tenants and parents in their own housing. The children of tenants are more likely to suffer in all respects, so it is evident that we should look intently at children who live in rented homes. I don't think it's done well enough, at least. not yet in this terms period. The tenants, for example, received none of the 80 billion shares that were shared in part of the country that owed their house loans in security, and rent payments have not increased during this terms of interest. UNICEF points out that the results of the report on community groups show that the situation of young parents is difficult, and so can couples with one child. Children with one child and parents less than 30 years of age have to be tested for what makes them more likely to suffer in want than other children. I want to thank UNICEF for the analysis. She needs to be annual, and I'm happy with the best response. Minister on this matter. It is essential that governments have such a tool to use policies and revise their policies where needed. The lowest income gaps have been used to not make tax doctors of this year, and I hope the government reviews such emphasis in view of UNICEF analysis. The analysis shows that especially the status of children who have been paid by their parents in rented homes is required. All of us should unite in doing so promptly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u51	A respectable president. I thank you very much for the discussion, and I agree very much with what the senators have said. I think this is something that we all don't like when we see these numbers. We want to respond. However, it is also important to keep in mind, as I mentioned, when we consider the figures the Haust Office has published, and the government has discussed in its meetings, according to the three standards that the Habitat uses to measure the quality of the children's lives, we take the right course. The key reason is that there is improvement in employment or employment. We'll see that families who have the support of rural society drop, and we'll see that there is a reduction in unemployment. What our sociology and biography studies have shown is that employment is a key factor in the time of poverty, poverty of our children, and poverty in general. It is reflected in a relatively high proportion, the highest rate in microgrows, 23% of those living in poverty and 12.5% of the unemployed. This too is reflected in the family structure. Single parents, as we know, are 23% of those who are lacking and then 15.1% of individuals under 65 years of age who live alone. These are the individuals on the basis of social housing waiting lists. We have not increased apartments in the social renting system, and in terms of waiting lists there were at the end of 2014, 1,652 waiting lists, and there are likely a considerable greater number if we take it as families, those who are behind them and our children. The average waiting time for a social apartment was 25.6 months, and the longest waiting time for a home was in the capital area, in Kópavogi, and in Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]] This is the perfect key. What are we going to do now? I mentioned what's going on with this experiment, but what we're doing right now is that we've got money to go on these projects. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's been over by Generalis. Now, the General just has to take care of the bills on the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u52	A respectable president. During the course of time, piranha had become accustomed to the fact that if someone suggested something in authors' affairs, it was horrible and something to help. It is a joy to know that this is not the case. I just want to talk about what I think is very important to be able to get through with this bill, but it's the legal rights of the middlemen who are exposed to a restraining order. I personally oppose the law's authority on authority, but I feel it is helpful to improve the legal standing of an intermediary who is exposed to such a request. It's on the bill and I'm coming to support it. As stated in a committee party after 2nd. it's what it's all about. The General and Education Committee that, with more detailed terms of contract agreements, the legal rights of those who do not choose to be members of the WCC are much clearer than before, and the availability of the public that the author-sponsored activities greatly increased. I thought it was worth coming up and killing because it is a bill that is also relevant to other things and is partly in order to update the law in harmony with modern times. Of course, our views on the material are far more radical than those displayed in this bill, and our approach to writers is not the same as the dominant of the forces. It has to be. Even though you would like to turn things into writers' law, at least this bill does not change my view of it and consult with others about making things worse than they are according to our values. I find it important to maintain that the person listed here should be expected to implement Directive 2014/26/ EU and at the same time. The Board of Education and the Board this morning was exactly what it was about. I think it's very positive. I see that this discussion will continue. Of course, these are not the last changes that will ever be made on writers' laws, and most of all, if we piranha have something to say, end up with ideas that others are not necessarily accustomed to, and perhaps still not fully convinced of being reasonable. Our work, however, is primarily to protect civil rights from evil ideas. On the contrary, I don't see bad ideas in this matter, but I see that the middlemen gain the right protection, which is very positive. That's why I'm gonna be supporting the case. Then there are two other issues to consider. One of them has to do with orphans, as they are called. I'm here to support that, too, but I'll probably be sitting by the case for a longer time of protection. I thought it was time to give a short talk. It's a matter of great importance to us pirata, so it's important to be clear on what terms we're getting closer to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u53	President. We're going to discuss a bill to legalize the change of local social services law by further adjustments. The bill suggests that if a person fails to meet the requirements for social services, it is permitted to limit the basic financial resources that are presented in the community rules for performing financial support up to half of the period of up to two months, he has stopped an effective search without the pitfall. At the same time, it is permitted to eliminate other financial support for up to six months. This is shown in 2 gr. The bill. President. This is a much more fundamental change than in the public talk or in the media. We're talking about a fundamental policy change in the Icelandic production system. We're talking about the safety network that's been there over the centuries in Iceland, i.e. that the rural communities are the last stop of those who have nowhere else to go and that we are going to take this last living of those who are in the most troubled and conditioned by society. In the review of Iceland's Quantum Convention on the case that was submitted last year to a committee, but it didn't end last winter, according to permission of presidents: There is a danger that conditions, such as those presented here, will turn into their resistance, i.e. induces a more difficult social status of individuals (such as poverty and isolation), which makes it even harder for them to reach the workforce. President. We've been discussing recently, first of all, the concern that we have because the groups are increasingly falling between ships and docks in very persistent poverty. Second, the UN's new goal, which replaced the issues of the United Nations Sea, is the sustainable goal of the United Nations, where the first goal of the United Nations is to eliminate poverty. Third, the fine report of the UNICEF that was discussed in a special discussion just before the conference shows that there has been an increase in children's lives in Iceland. This matter must be examined in that light. We must consider this matter in the context of an international battle against poverty, in the context of the increase in children's need, and in the context of the situation of disability and the elderly in Iceland. This Convention on Change of Social Services Act is designed to increase poverty in Iceland. At the very least, it is possible to increase the risk of more people having problems because of poverty. In particular, the welfare watch set up by the Ministry of Health at the time considered the factors that meet the criteria for minimal progress in their report in January 2015, recommendations for measures to overcome poverty. It is important that we have our leading experts in these areas. In part, it shows that the welfare department feels that it is right for governments to override the premises and calculations behind the amount of money to make minimal progress with the aim that individuals, families, and children do not live in poverty. Truly, in some cases, we are talking about the exact families. We should not forget that there are also children in the homes of those who enjoy the financial assistance of the local community. There are also children who have to live with more want. And there are also children who suffer, without their responsibility, have suffered a loss of financial support for up to two months at the same time, because he has stopped an effective search without the trap of the circumstances. At the very least, we can be sure that the decision is not a responsibility for the child in the home. It was once said that it takes a village to raise a child. That's right. Although it has not been specifically discussed in the UNICEF report on the lack of children's lives, the neglect and difficulty of child care is not only the responsibility of family and home, it is our responsibility and the responsibility of this large community family of all. That's why we have child protection laws. Hence, we have a variety of child covenants and various extraterrestrial arrangements that allow attention to protect children's interests when parental responsibilities or economic circumstances fail. I ask the U.S. Congress to give particular consideration to the reasoning when this particular matter is taken into consideration because there is no other system that will intervene when this system fails. According to the QA text, it considers that the next step in evaluating the amount of money to be minimal progress is that governments, both governments and rural groups, set up a working group with the basis for calculations responsible for financial promotion to minimal progress with the objective that individuals and families do not live in poverty. The aim of the Ministry of Health is to help families, especially children, do not live in poverty. I have doubts about it, and actually talked it over with the highest. Minister when the case was discussed last year at the previous council, that, i.e. These suggestions on the welfare of the Watch Tower Society and later the development of the matter under discussion also state that the QA has to be examined specifically and follow up in local and abroad on this aspect. It's real to know that the Minister who has the role according to the Presidentship and the Icelandic Government order to be the minister who goes along and to protect the interests of the poorest people in Iceland will find it in him to provide a bill that is in order to make life even more difficult for these people. It is, in fact, quite remarkable that the minister should do so when the views expressed by the welfare department itself, as well as by the Microcolance union, which, of course, knows well about these matters, are in a very different direction. Of course, there are views that have been expressed by the rural communities, which are evidence that this is a financial cost, and all is correct. There is also evidence that it is responsible and responsible for a society that encourages people to function more than people who encourage feelings of inadequacy. Everything in that article is right. Let us not forget that punishing people for activity, rather than encouraging them - so much I know, had brought four kids to you, that motivation is a better way than a punishment. What is our objective with all of this? In what picture is this bill set here? In what context is the bill? It must be a goal, not only of government opposition, but also of the government parties, that must be the aim of the Independence Party and the forward party's goal to improve society. Isn't that right? Is that not why we are here, to create a better society, a more just society where we feel better, where others are feeling better? This is shown in the case of independents and the highest. The financial and economic minister that everyone feels better about the more bisnis in the community and private people are more motivated by the loss of the crumbs from the surface to the lower ones in the pyramid. All right, this is an attitude leading to the goal, the primary goal of a better community. If we agree on this, the one standing here and the panel of the left movement, the green supply that strongly opposes this bill, and is in harmony with it, if we agree with the forward movement in building a better community, I'd like to ask and roll it up, and it would be fine if some candidate would fall into a dictionary: What is the best way to approach the goal of life of these people? I'm not talking about the communities that deal with unity. I'm not talking about general principles about encouraging people to function. I'm talking about very few people, many of whom have children. How do we make sure that we create a system that approaches the goal of having a better community, a more reasonable distribution of funds in the community, while at the same time we do not weigh the safety and quality of our poor children in Iceland? This is really the subject. We cannot, and we do not have permission when talking about matters from the highest source. Social and housing minister to discuss it only as part of some kind of model or part of some kind of column that needs to work up. That's what worries me. It says, by permission of the President: I think we should watch what is said here - a more positive approach and building people up. Rather than being the head of individuals and families, losing their advancement in any way or much, people can rely on some basic development, which would never be impaired and with increased efficiency and employment may improve their financial status. Encouragement and support must be stressed to those who rely on financial support in order to improve their effectiveness rather than on conditions and failings. I think, Mr. President, if there are any of the people in Iceland who know these matters, that's that in addition to the European Union of working people and the labor movement. I think we need to listen for this. In the early discussion, it has now been said that some societies are already doing this and that includes Hafnarfjörður and other rural communities. I don't agree that these communities do this. I don't like that it's been done. I've said that in the context of that discussion. Why do I have a problem with that? First of all, because I think this is the wrong socialist and second, because I don't think there's a law to do this. In fact, it is confirmed by presenting this bill that the local community does not have this current legal rights; of course, you can conclude the contrary by the highest conditions. Ministers provide the bill to provide legal support for this project by some rural society. A respectable president. I'm going to do this in my first talk in cover 1. about this bill. I sincerely hope to do so. The welfare committee examined the views I have tore up in my speech and looked particularly at the views reflected at the welfare department, as well as the comments of Iceland's Scaring Community on the subject in early stages.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u54	Mr. President. I'd like to get involved in this matter's discussion, bill to legalize the law on the local community service, to the highest degree. Minister of society and housing has been recommended. It recommends that the minister should provide guidelines for local administration, in consultation with the European Union, on how to conduct financial support plus financial resources for financial support. However, what is called a requirement for financial support is laid down, i.e. that the management board is allowed to set up regulations on financial support conditions that require that the applicant, who is either partly or completely employed, be in a more active job search. The bill then reviews the criteria. It may not be a great deal of concern, Mr. President, but it is as far as what we can call a foundation in our welfare system here. In earlier centuries, it was the last resort for men to report to the countryside. When children lost their parents, they were often distributed to families. They were put on the farm. It was the last way to plant people, whether they were children or adults. It is still so in our community, although we speak about it in another way today. Although financial support is now discussed, it is the last resort. For those who have been on unemployment benefits, that period has been cut short, sometimes it is a reality not to look for any local partners. These are likely the poorest members of the community, people who have to seek such help. And some of these poor people were discussing earlier today in a special discussion of the UNICEF report on the lack of children, and we have evidence that they are growing, which is a concern. At the same time that we see evidence of increasing the lack of children as measured, it is worth considering that this is suggested here to be a special basis for providing financial support for a community. Now I know the story well behind it, and I know that my rural society has pressured to obtain such legal authority for such conditions. Some of the rural communities have pointed out that this is the only way to argue with the request that it be the only means to push people, to activate people, and to think that they are in the pursuit of employment. But to me it's true. Now I don't know it, and I guess I will. A welfare committee reviewed it, but I had the opportunity to sit a few meetings at a time. The welfare committee at the last assembly, where this matter was also held, was being discussed. They were asked specifically whether we had reported experiences abroad, for example, about whether people would respond to such conditions for financial support. This has been done elsewhere than in this country, i.e. setting such a requirement. At that point - I don't see it in the bill's report of any foreign research on this subject - I specifically asked what experience it was from Norway that has been putting in such conditions. The answers were, in fact, that such conditions may not necessarily be effective except in certain groups. I found this interesting, and I find it important to do so. The welfare committee considered this, i.e. that the conditions may work specifically in certain age groups, especially in the younger age groups, if I remember correctly, were cited that their function is lost, but may not work on the older groups. I wondered, and the question is persistent and is something the committee may be able to look at specifically. Remember the groups that become more active after some of these conditions, would they have been as active if they had just been working to offer them some resources, efficiency? We know, for example, the experience of a crash when schools of the country and a labour agency were under attack, and the effort was made to offer suitable studies to young people. It was found that when young people offered study or education as appropriate, they wanted to apply for such resources, and when such provisions were accompanied by support and encouragement, they concluded their studies because their options were carefully considered. It was not just an invitation to attend a high school for the first day of an undefined study with a lot of younger people, but the thought behind the fact that the amount of education offered would be in a group of people at a similar age, that they were interested in the subject, and that it was accompanied by some additional support that may be needed in the case of those who have lost their jobs or who have been out of the work for a long time, do not have formal education, and need extra support to go back into a school system that may not have applied to the previous level. The question that I raise is because I think that everyone in this room must agree that it is important that people do not fall into doubt and lose life's strength and will, if conditions are the right way to encourage people to be loved in that matter or whether most of all matters are available. Of course, I know there have been plenty of resources. I mentioned a workforce that came in with its much experience and knowledge when we entered the educational campaign called a working - line study that was actually a great story for many of those who participated in it and also showed the understanding of the labor movement and the workforce's parties how important it is to keep people interested. This would have to look into my knowledge, i.e. On the other hand, how conditions have given up elsewhere, whether there is a greater opportunity for those in the position of seeking the financial assistance of the community, or whether the conditions do not work on certain groups. At the meetings I sat last year, it was specifically said that it had not affected all groups at all. In view of that, Mr. President, this is the last safety network involved, i.e. you're looking for financial support from a community, that's the last resort of survival, you're actually saying you're in the country. If such help is restricted, what will happen? Then they do not look much more. I think it might be a thought of what this will tell us where we are going with our welfare system if all the assistance provided by the government has actually become conditional. Of course, this is not in harmony with the ideas that are being carried on elsewhere in the world regarding the one public foundation advance, such as in Finland today, that are spoken of as civilian pay or basic production for all citizens regardless of their status. So this is some very different thought. I've thought that there's every reason to look at the ideas of basic progress. But I don't think that's a reason, as it seems to be implemented in Finland, where savings actually seem to be the goal. I don't think that's the right goal. [[Up front.]] I'm not gonna have a conversation with the highest. Minister. She'll just come back to answer if she wants to have more conversation about this. But it's an interesting ide, I think. But it seems to me, unfortunately, the Finnish way is by using this interesting ide to save in the social network. I don't necessarily think that's something I do. The other thing I'd like to say, and that's kind of the second point I'd like to come to here, is that here's some instructions for the Minister on the implementation of financial support and financial resources. It means that rural society is really continuing, as I understand the bill, not obliged to provide such additional financial support or financial support. Funds are published, but rural society is not committed to complying with them. This is one of the many discussions that have been discussed, i.e. The amount of financial support that is not consistent today, and this is a step to establish a set of criteria, but as I understand the point, the rural communities are not being committed to complying with these criteria. Actually, it's a choice for the communities. This is likely to refer to the independence of a community that is guaranteed in a constitution and is expected to indicate that it is. However, I ask that this may be the case, on the other hand, a suggestion that the rural communities be allowed to validate the assistance and, on the other hand, a set of criteria, would not have been natural enough to go further and thus provide equal resolution between different rural areas between countries, since it is not now a large country below. I wondered if the local Union had not been prepared to enter into the setting of more decisive standards so that it would be resolved all over the country. Because regardless of the views I have of, of course, about the independence of my community, we must not forget that we must also want to guarantee some basic rights of all individuals in this country, no matter where they live. By failing to commit to this, we are not expected to reach that objective in all our communities. That's what worries me. I would have thought it normal, and I did say it here last year, too, when we discussed this case that I would have liked to see the harmony go all the way to the amount and the criteria for financial support. Then I think we need a much more detailed political discussion, and we're going to have it at this council on how we want to ensure that those in need of financial assistance in rural society will continue to become active citizens in a democratic community. I have great faith in positive encouragement. I have great faith in the fact that education, extra knowledge, and experience are something that benefit people of all ages. Doing so in a positive way will result in positive results. But, Mr. President, I would like to say, however, that I have serious doubts about putting in conditions for this last community resources when it comes to looking to the groups seeking financial help. I have serious doubts about granting my community the authority to set conditions for such financial support because I cannot answer the question what will happen to those people. I can't answer the question, What will happen to those who suffer the loss of that help? But I trust this will be examined carefully. A well - being committee, as well as an open and objective approach so that at least we can find certain answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for a good and objective talk on this complex project. I have been hoping that the discussion, as well as that of the Committee itself, developed from the moment we discussed whether we should set clear rules and be more involved in what the rules should be. There I have opened up to discuss whether the suggestions in the bill would need to be changed or corrected. Where it is. A senator who is a former high school minister, she is well acquainted with the fund of interpretation. Not long ago, a judge who turned around to him did not fall into the Supreme Court; but the district court pointed to the requirement made by the Constitution - the rights of people to the service offered by the interpreter - that governments set clear rules on how to make money and how to handle the limited funds that we have to care for and feel should be handled properly. I'd be interested to hear what it's like. A senator would like to see the layout. Is there anything in the bill that she thought would be a reason to change? Her fine representatives on the welfare committee might especially consider this. I also ask myself, " Am I mistaken for what I am saying? ' A senator has not been accepting the proposal, as it has been put here, to review civilian pay in which a concordance system is canceled. I think it's very important to keep that in mind. It has been said that it would save a lot of money, but for example, we are paying about 100 billion on insurance benefits, but the cost of insurance is $1 billion. It wouldn't be much savings that way if we were to put down 100 billion dollars in payment but save to $1 billion in an administration that now seems to be very low. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u56	Mr. President. Perhaps only with this national ideologies - what I've found interesting to her is that it's been going on on a minimum profit. Because it is developed in the spirit of welfare society, it is added on top of the basic growth in the case of microorganised or unemployed people or others, a minimum base defined as normal forwardation. However, this is not the way we are going in Finland, as I mentioned earlier. In fact, other payments are being pushed aside. The thought behind this is - and I find it interesting - that society will change very much in the coming years and decades and that we will see the significant changes in a workforce where unskilled jobs will decrease with increasing technology and that we will have to build up a whole different labour market. There the official will have a role different from that of today. Although we are usually dealing with today's project here at the General Assembly, I think we should start thinking for a while. The job market is going to change much more than we have before, I think, over the next 20 to 30 years with increased technology. One way to encourage people to create their own opportunities in a changed society has been to include the idea that there is a way to encourage them to get their own chance. When it comes to these clear rules of distribution of funds, at the highest rate. As a minister discussed, I wondered, " Is this really the beginning of the question? If we want to have a clear, defined obligation, to better define the duties of the rural community in providing financial support, not just their authority to restrict it. ' It is also possible, as the bill puts it, that instructions and the set of values are given. It is said that there are significant differences between rural partners, about how they will contribute to a greater harmony. [[The president calls.]] But here I believe that the foundation would have to be considerably more uniform.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u57	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator that would have to be a much more comparable basis for the services of rural society to provide to families who are troubled. Earlier today, we discussed the United Nations Children's Fund, which turned toward poverty among children. It has been called for regular analysis of their status. I've also been evaluating it, when it comes to priorities, whether it's more important to us to get better information about the services our communities provide. For example, in the work of a welfare committee on this matter and in our work as to possible social administration agency, we have not at all overlooked our services and the demands of rural society on those seeking assistance in difficult times in their lives. [[The president calls.]] I think it's very important that we get a better perspective on the rules of implementation, what rules are there to get on the waiting list for social housing, whatever rules apply to the support existing communities provide to children from the poorest families. We don't have an overview of this. Not good enough at all. When we called for information about how many rural societies had conditions, when we started to win this bill, it was found that the information was not available in the Ministry. [[The president calls.]] We had to call out specifically for them. However, it was found that almost every member of the community has some sort of rules that focus on the effectiveness of those who are involved in the forward work. After we have stopped giving consistent guidance on the start of the alimony, we have received a hint that the difference between the members of the community has increased. While this is also being considered for the Constitution and for the benefit of the rural society, it is important that these rules exist and that we publish what each member of the community is doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u58	Mr. President. Yes, I agree with the highest. Minister, it's very important to have perspective on this. Of course, societies have historically taken care of important aspects of welfare. More projects have been taken to the countryside. Rather, it is important that we have perspective, that we have information about how this service is done, where there is inconsistencies. As I clearly stated earlier, I speak in harmony with these topics because I feel that it is toward the basic rights of the citizens that they can choose residence and live with the same basic rights. V.E.G. A minister here noted that many rural societies had made rules without necessarily a legal right and we know these examples. But what matters to them, if there should be a code on which I am very doubtful, as I have said, the space is in an indiscriminate direction. In many cases, circumstances may make it difficult to live up to conditions set in the laws or laws of state and rural society. When you see situations that may be unpredictable in the eyes of the people who make the laws and the rules, but so you need help no matter what you think, there must be a very clear space for us to interpret the rules in an intangible way toward those who may be remembered. That's kind of what I think is so important. Here we are looking at the basic conditions for receiving financial support, but it may be difficult to write in law that we should then interpret the conditions in which the human spirit is guided when handling cases. It is also necessary to ensure and maintain harmonisation, or at least perspective, over what effective measures are available. This is especially about job search and job markets and learning arrangements, a wide variety of factors between rural partners, so it also counts to have an overview of what is available.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u59	Mr. President. I'm just gonna come on this bill for a change in local social services law, i.e. failed financial support, which we talked about when the matter was presented to the last assembly and that has had serious doubts about. They have not significantly reduced anything, despite the fact that the bill is submitted again, that is, in any way unchanged, a tiny explanation is added, and they try to sharpen something at 2 Timothy 3: 1. see, but otherwise the contents remain unchanged. In view of what we were discussing earlier, it is worth noting that we have validated several international covenants, such as we have recently discussed, the United Nations Children's Covenant, the Convention of Human Rights, and the European Social Convention, to mention some. In all of these, nations are expected to ensure their inhabitants' safety and well - being. When we look at the bad guys here, I don't think we're doing it entirely with this bill. There are several reports that account for this, including The previous issue, the UNICEF report, and the 2010 Red Crossword Report, referred to as jobseekers. Whether there are couples with children, single parents, immigrants, children, or very young people, it is evident that they lack opportunity. There are prominently evil groups in this room that were not there before a crash, but some still stand in palaces. They may primarily accept this financial help, and even they are helped to rely solely on it. We tend to view this group as a problem rather than looking to those people with a view to helping them up. Sure, it's suggested in the bill in part, but maybe in terms of being different from what I would have chosen. I think we all agree that there's a big part of us that individuals are having a job, it's not just about having a salary or being able to support themselves, but it affects their sense of identity, can also affect our health, and, of course, it affects everyone around us, i.e. in the family. And I think we can all agree that there are very difficult steps that must be taken when people have to look to fellow members of the country, whether they are unemployment benefits or special financial support, which somehow are the final steps in which you cannot support yourself in any way. The last time the case was discussed, there was a problem. paritaprevir Blöndal H. Bömere to discuss whether this legalization could lead to the highest financial height. There were a few discussions, and there is really nothing that guarantees that they will not. And then, of course, it's different with the communities and it's been like that. Of course, one tends to think that this can be the case. As we know, financial support is all but low, and we have also been able to determine whether it should be less than certain compensations or wages. There was a difference of opinion about that. We are here talking about people who are in poor standing, and as we know, they are expected in Article 2. the bill that people follow a rigid frame, receive individual guidance, follow up, etc., but with negative signs that if they don't, financial support should be impaired. I still think that these things can be done without impairment, and in fact, there's nothing to discourage it from doing so that it will encourage people, not discourage them. When people are forced to accept such measures, they are actually being forced into a process that they are not prepared to handle. Perhaps the way should be so much more that we would meet people and simply reward them if they were to participate in rehabilitation or courses or such. At least there are positive signs, and it is even more likely for a certain period of time to get people started and participate in a job market again. In itself, I completely agree with the goal of the bill that we need to help people get to work and function again, but I feel that we need to see which roads we want to go. Of course, we're here to do so, to exchange opinions on which way we want to go, but I feel that they will have to be more than reasonable to the person to face this pathetic situation in life. One of the things you've wondered a lot about is when people's skills are assessed. Of course, we're picking up some box and all that stuff, but then we also have people who are just hard to tell if they're working or not. They're forced to take some courses, otherwise they'll lose compensation, etc. But we surely know all the individuals around us who have obstacles in their lives that they do not necessarily carry. Even if you're talking to them or something like that, you don't realize that they're having other problems. Of course, we can take the emotional problems in this regard. I had the opportunity to listen to a young woman with brain damage yesterday, and it was not obvious to her that something was wrong, but it was shown in her language that there is usually little that is involved in the current system, whether it is after the health care or at social services. It's got a lot of broken pots. What I'm primarily saying is that people can be very difficult to appreciate and that they are able to participate in the workforce. Then, what I've said in the past is that the workforce is not necessarily ready to accept people who have some limited ability to work. This is not just because people find it hard to get into a job market. I remember the last time this case discussed that I got a call, a phone call, actually, and both of these were from women of the best age who had lost their jobs. They really wanted to work, but it was really just so that they watched their social security numbers and they didn't get jobs, as big as it is, women with good work experience, and entered middle age, not feeling that they were reaching out for employment, and that they looked for not just their own but in many areas. So people are faced with various challenges. The reason is not simply some difficulty in going to the job market. A lot of talk has been made about Hafnarfjörður and the project there. I haven't necessarily agreed with that. It was said that the cause of withdrawal had not been analysed. I don't know any better than a welfare committee has called for information about how people would have been angry because these conditions have been widely applied. I understood that formal answers had not been received to the Committee about this. A man would have thought that this would be a reason to consider it before the case would be resolved again. I would also like to introduce the same material that was being discussed earlier, both at the highest level. Minister and minister. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter came into it, i.e. children who live in unsatisfactory conditions. The UNICEF report gives us reason to worry about this, and the children's interest also published a report on unwanted children last year, reminds me. This, of course, is a major cost of housing, a high percentage of less expensive incomes. This may be the main part of a child's poor child's condition, even though it puts the bill in the bill that it does not mean that there can be an account due to the child's circumstances, the low implementation of the parents, or the parent in this situation, children are affected by the nature of the situation. While there is no lack of assistance from leisure or school meals, there are a number of other problems, and children need to grow up with them. We also know, and this may be one of the things we need to recognize that inequities are not only the cause of poverty but also the consequences. We know that poverty can move from generation to generation. I think we need to think about this much better and look ahead, but I feel that we're doing it on the bill. Regarding the expense food that comes with the bill, the minister referred to the presence of data from the rural community. I understand that this is a warrant, and it is not necessarily known if any rural society will tie this up in their financial guidelines. You also start to think: Are we talking about offering different social rights to live by then? If that's the way it is, we're going to make sure it's that way. A senator here says he is? We are legally establishing such discrimination instead of trying to correct it and strengthen it that no compromise can be offered. It would have made more sense to me than to maintain discrimination in rural areas. My time is running out, and finally I want to say we have to go to these values, i.e. what interests we should be guided by and how we want to live in. Of course, most of us want everyone to have a decent standing. I read that somewhere I could find out that the ultimate solution is that each of us put himself in the position of all concerned, imagining that we could find ourselves in a difficult situation and that we could become under pressure. This could rather lead to our reaching a more righteous conclusion on the matter. Not now I was born with a golden spoon in my mouth, but I have never had to live in poverty. When you know people who have lived with these things and know how they're affecting people, I can't help saying that we're cutting down the knee I think we should do least to do, i.e. The poorest people. I don't think the approach in the bill is going to help. I'd like to ask a minister if she doesn't think it's possible that if the person who's falling out of unemployment will register for the social services, because you need to have it pretty bad if he doesn't accept it, he's offered interviews and treatments and all that's said on the bill. Mr. President. I'm gonna let that do for now. I am not convinced of this and its contents, and I cannot agree with the fact that my rural society offers limited social services.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I find this very interesting and unattainable in the last council, but it was very much discussed. I don't object that there are conditions of some kind because I think, under conditions, it is at the same time that local societies are being obliged to perform some kind of service to those who need it. I find an interesting part of the report on construction in other parts of the North, where there have been various kinds of conditions and changes in the procedure as necessary. There is one thing that I wonder about, and I understand in some respects the concern that has been discussed about this matter, i.e. that rural communities are so limited in their ability to deal with the task of helping those qualified to be employed and to become active participants. We have huge rural communities, such as here in the capital area, Reykjavík, and then all down into very small rural areas. The unpleasant thing about this is that each community could likely have its own implementation. That's not equal. I wondered, " Is this supposed to be more on the shoulders of the State? ' These are individuals who live in rural areas. Why, then, should the Kingdom not come at this in some way? Is it people who do nothing entirely in favor of the local community? I don't think it has to be like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Because she named the implementation elsewhere in the North countries, there are factors in the Committee's opinion. But it is also true that some rural society has diminished and returned because of its failure. I find it important to know how the people who have been angry with the communities that have used the conditions we've only discussed here. The evidence I feel is missing from the discussion so that we can directly ask: It's been done for a few years in certain places. Where are these people today? How has this made us feel? I think it's very important. We constantly move assignments to our rural communities because we feel that they are better equipped for closer service. They are more familiar with their people and may be in a closer relationship with them. I understand that this is a taxing expense for the rurals. This route is expected to bring people relief. I told it the last time this case was discussed here that I thought it was an objection because the unemployment insurance business went through here, as we shall, i.e. When unemployment improvements were limited and impaired, that this was some sort of rescue call to the countryside in an effort to meet people. Of course, rural society is in a position to cope. We're always discussing rural income division and the state. I would rather look at things that way than to bring the projects directly to the State, since I think that closer to the community is better able to put your arms around the person and the service that is needed by the person, because it is quite varied. She's not just in the form of money support and financial support from the local community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u62	A respectable president. As we have noted, the contribution of rural funds is expected to be met at the expense involved, but it is also important that the construction and services of the rural community be coordinated. This is true in all areas because it's not that people can just pick up and move to a new rural society like that because the services of some community are so much worse than anywhere else. So I think it's important that we always try to coordinate our ministry. Hv. A senator also introduced a case that is very interesting, i.e. whether a labour market is ready to take over people with impaired ability. That's a very hard question to ask me. It is true that women over 50 or 60 are now out of work. It may be difficult for them to find a job even if they are good workers. Thus, the work market may not always be open to the diversity of human life. It has also been said about going to a microenergy assessment, that people are more likely to be examined. Does it have 60 percent capacity? Where, then, are the resources at work? Is there a company or government agency in a 60 percent job that is fully alive and splicing? That's a very persistent question. The requirement, as I have understood it, is about which, of course, should be the goal, to help a person, and to get him back into life. The requirements may include swimming. 9 o'clock in the morning or 8 o'clock. 11th As I have understood, the work at Hafnarfjörður is not inhumane, but on the contrary, to help people become as active members of society as possible. I think it's a very important thing. So I hope that the bill will be fixed if there are any faults in it, and that it will be successful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u63	Mr. President. Just the finals, that's where we don't see eye to eye. I hope this bill doesn't work out, at least not as it is today. Hv. A senator spoke of the branch office's financial resources coming up. Of course, he does so in some way. I agree with this, saying in my speech earlier that it was important for me to consider both the performance and the shared service to be of some minimum value, some minimum service rather than a legal error between my colleagues so that they can do it the way they want, and, of course, that is to some extent. But if we're going to try to get our arms around some holistic system of well - being - we're always thinking about this in small-dose cures, I think. We need to put our arms around this whole thing. I've reduced my ability and the labour market quite often to talk about it. In the case of unemployment, for a time at work, it was offered that the state paid part of its pay in order to encourage professional workers to work. I think it's a good thing, and I think it's a way to stimulate the workforce, but it can't be that as soon as they finish, they're fired. This may be what's been dangerous, that it's only been replaced by employment. Of course, that is not ideal. Cutting down a low financial service by 60, 70 points. "K., something like that, two months - you also have to eat and visualize the two months of impairment. It is important to remember that for a period of 60 days, we cut down incredibly small amounts of money for two months. We've been hearing many times before Christmas, and more often that the poor and older citizens don't have on and off. [[The president calls.]] I don't think the people we're dealing with here are better off.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u64	A respectable president. It will now give a little further tone in the talk given here in view of the three talks that have been presented on this subject, and perhaps first and last because the one listed here might benefit those involved in this matter in time when effective measures are required to provide financial assistance. First of all, 1st pars. that the Minister will provide annual guidelines for local administration in consultation with the European Union for the implementation of financial support and financial resources. I think it's very important to come in here and be on the bill because it can't be said that every member of the country should give a certain amount, however, there is a requirement for this lawgiver on the part of rural society because it's the highest. Ministers, whoever he is at any given time, will likely take into account counselling action for rural society that there are sums of money that would require some means of support. So I think it's good. It is mentioned by many other elements that have occurred and will appear. Then comes 2 c. which is a requirement for financial support. I reiterate it here, a respectable president, that it is being spoken of by individuals who are employed, solely of individuals who qualify for employment, not of those who today or in the near future, who are in need of the assistance of their comrades and who are not able to work. This applies exclusively to workers who work at work. Then I find it odd to discuss that the bill includes punishment for people. On the contrary, the bill includes an incentive for individual resources to look for work and that it is conditional that you cannot stay long with financial support from a local society without looking for effective measures, you meet the conditions presented here. To me, it must always be fundamental for each person to be able to be active in one way or another, not to be an inactive person who is not involved at all times. Therefore, it is very important in my opinion to those who feel that they are employed and that if they need help, it is important that they are effective. As a result, I especially want to remind young people of what Björk Vilhelmsdóttir, a former city official, said to these young people. She said that we, our community, had failed those young people who were helped by our rural society because we had failed to enable them to find work and help them find work. They are even young people who have no right to unemployment, and for some reason they turn to the local community for financial support. Björk says that we failed to provide these young people with effective methods to make them active members of society. Regarding the bill, it is particularly noted that in Sweden back in 1990 this requirement was taken up and that it was specifically directed to job care for unemployed young people under 20 years of age, brought to the 1995 rural community, and in 1998, the age group was added to the total number of 203/424 years. Under no circumstances can it be reasonable that young people aged 18 in the past would be bound to the financial assistance of a local partner. It must be done very carefully to assist young people to function, whether they are studying, attending school, or looking for a job, etc. In this respect, I feel that it is more acceptable to look at the words and function than it is to punish those who are least allowed to do so by encouraging and empowering them to find a job. On the other hand, the public market is much more willing to accept people in part - time work, but the public sector is just like a fiery roof. He usually only has full - time ministers, and then he has shift work as well. If there is someone who is going to make an effort to provide resources for those who are looking for a job, it is part of the community that can somehow find part - time jobs to get them into the job market and to enable them to go out amongst people and participate in them. I think it can be said of the bill that it is the motivation for rural society to reflect on the services of the population and in what way they can change the arrangements for employment applications and employment percentages to enable people to work, so they no longer need financial assistance. Well, two things could go together in a community. It should, in effect, be directed into that direction and show them how they themselves can help people in one way or another with effective jobseekers instead of always bringing the job responsibility to the general market and calling for his resources while the public is not doing theirs. It is clearly better for all close - to - house members of the same community to bring part - time work, whether at schools, in libraries, or in the sports houses, swimming pools, and at the working places the local community has to do, and there they pay and encourage them to function rather than go the other way, to provide financial support. In my mind, the bill is an opportunity for rural society to be much more than a threat, and the more important; in the bill there is an opportunity and incentive to be effective for those who are employed and who enjoy the financial assistance of their rural society. I know that often it is enough to show compassion to those who need it and guidance to go back into society. Social services make it a slow and refreshing experience through personal conversations and guide them in the direction they can go. At that time, individuals are better off than at home and get into their account a amount of money, even though in most cases it is low. Most people can't live a decent life with that help, that's what I think everybody's clear about. There's one thing in this that keeps coming to my mind. The bill says that the progress or decline in progress will not reach children. I think it must be time to look at all the laws associated with children, child support, child care support, child support, financial support, and all those aspects of child care. If we take a single mother with two children, or a single father with two children, we must have it that way because it is spoken of more often of the opposite sex. Consider the example of a single father who has two children, who are invalid and who receive child benefits from the State. This is also true of a single - parent father who has a full - time job. For example, he is a teacher with two children. He's getting pedophiles from the state, too. The eagle receives a tax - free pension, but the single father who works full - time cannot. Thus, the eagle, a single father with two children, gets child support and a pension, while the other does not. I also think we need to face up to this and discuss that having a child must be involved. It takes just as much to see one person or even two parents. At the same time, we have discussed the poverty of children, and it was observed that some children cannot participate in these sports or social activities, nor can friends and acquaintances come home with them because their parents are poor. We need to look for changes in this system and wonder what it means to have a child and what a child should have for his basic needs. A respectable president. V.E.G. The social and housing minister will probably recommend, and hopefully, for a new bill this spring, for the change of the social security system. For one thing, it is a matter of looking to people's working abilities rather than their disability and looking at the overall factors, whether in microp poor or older citizens. Then it may be discovered that it is better to look more at what you can do than what you cannot do, at least to those on this subject, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u65	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I want to start by saying that I think that we, at least Me and what. A senator and I think that most of the people in this room, we agree that it's important that people be active in the community. I don't think there's any difference. The decision is about whether the benefits can be impaired by people who do not meet specific criteria set out in this bill. That's where the differences are, I believe, but not what is involved. I wanted to say that in the first place. Hv. In his talk, a senator made it clear that this is merely a matter of setting conditions for those with a good work ethic. The bill tells you to check your job skills to show that you are working at part of your job or at all, you need to work with him on a job search plan. The Senator also mentioned in his talk that we are moving toward seeing people's abilities rather than their inability. I'm worried about that interaction. Suppose, though, that we pick up a job ratings and people are encouraged to work, but people with impaired skills don't always get jobs, and we put them in the company of this bill with people always looking for an active job, since they can otherwise cut the help, aren't we putting people in a knot between two systems? [[The president calls.]] Has a what? A senator thought of this interaction between two different systems to the end?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u66	A respectable president. This refers to those who may have been on unemployment benefits, lost unemployment rates, and entered the financial assistance of a community. It is also true of those who have never worked and depend on the financial assistance of fellow members. Yes, man himself often misuses power. We can be very concerned that rural society will be involved in a person with a ability to work at one-quarter or whatever the ratio is. Then comes the other question: Why is a full - time worker not working for a job? If he is fully capable of working, why is he seeking the financial help of a community? What makes such a person not in the workplace? Doesn't he get a job? Or doesn't he get the job he wants? Yes, I can say with what. A senator could be a member of a community that looks forward to it. So I think the committee might have some way of wondering whether it's supposed to be a work permit or not. Personnel and disability, we're not necessarily talking about disability in here. They can stay in here because their benefits do not satisfy what is needed. I feel that the committee just needs to look at it because there is a possibility that people can land between systems or be pushed into something they are not able to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u67	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. I'd like to start by saying that with my question, I wasn't saying that I was in favor of conditioning full - time workers, just to be properly maintained. What I'm worried about is what has been discussed in the Committee on Social Security, the recording of employment assessments, and the disability evaluations that go to the Job Assessment have the right to the stocks, but if they are in the labour market, they have the right to do so. On the other hand, if those people do not get a job, they may be able to work on unemployment benefits, and when the period is over, if the person has not yet got a job, financial support would still be available. In the United States, there is no law against discrimination in the labour market because of disability. That's why I'm worried that people can have a very difficult time between systems where people are really being rejected in a job market, and that's why they're in this place. What I'm saying is, I feel that we need to think the whole thing. If we are going to make a change in another location, i.e. we need to consider, to the end what social influence it has, for the community everything, and especially for the person, so I try to make it clear and clearly from me. There's something else. A senator came in at the beginning of his talk, which I would like to use in my final seconds to ask about, pars. ... thata Ministergiveseveryyear instructions for local administration. Counts 'em out. A senator would consider simply installing the minimum amount of money to be given and, of course, based on some guidelines? [[The president calls.]] Would it be stronger to have a certain amount of money in this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u68	A respectable president. About the second question why? Senator, no, I don't think it's supposed to be a constant figure because circumstances may be different in Akureyri or in Rausfa, even though they are in the same ideal but are different circumstances for people living there. Living, whether here or there, is not always the same cost. In terms of the other thing that we talked about, performance and disability, I am both the type and the belief that members of the local community services will never point the most inexorably to their clients and will need most of the resources they have. I'd like to mention again a fine woman who worked a long time and knows the social services, the Björk Vilhelmsdóttir. She spoke of us as having failed a certain group of people, the young people, in not starting a job search with them, for which they conditioned that they were on financial aid in getting them into society. It was no matter whether this was the case, as it has been revealed, that many were spiritually sick and were not in the house. However, it has also been proved as if in the case of mental - health workers and many others that when you take determined people who suffer from such things and carry them on to some type of activity, a world that has been hidden before. I believe that applying people, even though there are money conditions on this side, will be more effective than if you don't try to activate that person. I agree with what. A senator, perhaps most of us would agree to enable people to participate rather than discourage them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u69	Madam President. I want to come right into the 1st. about the bill before it goes to what? The welfare committee, mainly due to the highest level. The social and housing minister is in the room. I suppose the highest. Minister, or I hope so and wish to the highest. A minister will answer my questions when she closes up the discussion. My encouragement to come up here is exactly the particular discussion we had today, in which the social and housing minister participated in the discussion of the UNICEF report on the results of the analysis of the total shortage of children in Iceland. That's the best I heard. A minister under UNICEF's emphasis on equality among children and on the importance of all children. Just to review the results of UNICEF deficiency, it shows that in 2014 9.1% of all children in Iceland were missing. There are over 6,100 children, of whom over 1,600 suffer a severe shortage. In short, the results are that Iceland's child is most likely to be missing if there is a boy whose parents are less than 30 years old and who only have basic education, the lowest income range, and the rent market in larger towns. The boy who was born in Iceland is the only child in the home and a parent in a ratio of less than 50%. The conclusion is that the area where most children suffer from lack of housing is seen, and there are nearly 9,000 children who suffer such want and more than a quarter of children who have half a job or less as poor as living in a home setting. This suggests that the group of parents and students is a limited number, as is the case with unemployed single parents. The children of tenants differ greatly from the children of parents in their own housing. The children of tenants are more likely to suffer in all areas. We went over this today during the special discussion. But what I'm worried about is that the way this bill affects the children of those who suffer the injury has not been organized. In 1st. and already the highest. The minister spoke for the bill answered the question, but I can't see at the top of the web. Minister has answered the questions. I wanted to carry them back up here. That's a question. paritaprevir The Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir, by permission of President: For example, when it comes to the circumstances of children, a payment for them, I ask about a single mother with a child who is affected by a decline in basic living; of course, a home where a child is being cut off is being cut off. Is it not, then, intended to reach people with children, or to reach out to their children outside some financial group? V.E.G. The minister did not answer that question. That's why I'll bring her up again and I'd like a minister to answer her here at the end. Hv. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir also introduced child issues in her opponent, and she said, by permission of president: ▪ After the much discussion and criticism that the bill received last year, what effect did the bill have on the law, on financial support, or for the children of the people? A second answer said "what." Senator: ▪ Was there something especially done between councils to ask the communities to go through this, to bring out information so that they could be identified better, to form the number of children in broken homes? I think it's really important that we in this room realize that, of course, this bill, it's going to be a law, affect a lot of children. Hence, it is of utmost importance to prophesy specifically about the effects on children. The UNICEF analysis, as well as the results collected, states: It should not matter how a child in Iceland lives, where he lives in the country, or who his parents are. The child is to be able to take the same opportunities as all other children. Such equality is guaranteed in the Icelandic Constitution as well as in the United Nations Children's Convention, which has been legalized by Iceland. I think it's a word we should listen to. In addition, we have accepted this, both by the constitution and by the children's covenant. Madam President. I don't think governments are taking those steps. I feel that the steps we're all taking are going toward the people who are bent. I'd like to let me mention a few things. For example, the job - saving period was cut short, meaning that those who do not have jobs have to do with this bill, become law - oriented, apply to it. The damage done by children is very cruel, as the government has agreed, and it immediately begins at 200 levels. K. ... money. Since the Family School has multiple restrictions, 25 - year - olds have difficulty in obtaining literature in their hometowns, and rent payments have not increased in this ideal period. These are just a few of the factors that can be mentioned that all of us are being able to provide materially for our children. Now it's time for the last safety net to catch them. In other words, it is not supposed to make sure that the mesh size is the way it grabs everyone. Rather, the net is being warmed up so that some pomas down. I don't think that's a good welfare girl, Madam President. So I ask: Has the bill been determined by the benefit of children, as the United Nations Children's Covenant suggests? And I pray to the highest. Ministers to answer what will happen to those who are bad and to their children. I don't think they've answered enough. The answers are probably there, and I hope to the highest. At least a minister has considered them and has the ability to inform us of what will happen to the children of the people who are affected by them will be under law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u70	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the questions she had directed to me. I thought the court was just going to say something like that. A senator. There she mentioned that she felt that I had not answered a question addressed to me during the first part of the discussion when I first spoke up. I believe, however, that I answered that question. However, the question is, Have I answered her like a whale? A senator would have wanted me to have answered her. I pointed out that the bill was just making sure that rural society could reduce the support to come about because of children. Given the current arrangement and in view of certain laws in terms of the conditions established by rural society, I think that almost every community has some sort of rules, I thought it was very important that it was absolutely clear that the rules would not be appropriate for the children, and we would say so. A key role, then, is for a health committee if they need more attention. Hv. A senator went through certain points that she thought would diminish the support of lesser ones. As it may not surprise me, I do not agree with it. I think that according to the figures that have come out, our actions, especially those involved in promoting the economy, have been improving. We have seen that the numbers of poverty survivors have diminished, so while seeing the effects of the crisis are striking, the actions both of this government and of the last government were thought to reduce its impact.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u71	What about the influence of this government?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u72	Then, with regard to the failure of the child reforms as a matter. A senator mentioned this point was to make sure that those mentioned among the hands receive additional support. It is the same emphasis that we have expressed in dealing with the workforce's partners regarding the growth process, that their support will go to those mentioned among the hands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u73	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister did not answer whether the bill was measured for the benefit of children. Although social support is not impaired, it is evident from all analyses and not just the analyses of UNICEF that the interests of children depend largely on the financial situation in the home. If the help has been cut down, it will clearly affect the progress of those living in the home. That's got to be obvious. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister: What are some things that the existing government has suggested to improve the status of children's families in order to improve the situation of the worst members of the community? Tells you the highest. Minister that the decrease in unemployment period does not affect people who are poor in Iceland? Tells you the highest. Ministers that the number limits in high school do not affect the people and the prospects of the people who want to improve and strengthen their positions in order to support themselves and their own better ways? I agree that to help people, they are going to do everything they can to make people more active. But the punishment involved is not to be done. To realize that it will not work well, you need to view established parenting teachings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u74	A respectable president. There are some things I'd like to say. There seems to be some misunderstanding. This is a provision for rural society. I'm just a little worried about the tone I'm hearing in the conversation and attitude I've had with my local communities. Hv. A senator is himself an experienced platoon leader, and we have seen that local authorities have promoted family support. They have tried hard to carry out their assignments and have worked hard to improve their attitude toward these groups. I can't see that even though the General is trying to establish more specific rules and limit the possibility of rural society in terms of financial support, just to the children, we should discuss in this manner about our rural society. For example, rural areas in that area have been affected. A senator represents conditions that have tried to cope with them. I also know that her fellow groups in other districts have been applying conditions and that they have produced a great deal of results in helping people. In terms of what we are discussing here, we need to ensure that the person is really employed, that it is not possible for humans to apply these rules to those who are not employed and to ensure that children are taken into consideration. But I reiterate what I said, the action of this government, and also the action of the last government, that I think, has precisely aimed at supporting the families. [[What actions?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u75	What actions?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u76	We can see from the Haustabourism Institutes, which turns to social reference that there is less poverty in Iceland. [[Examples of actions?]] Here again, the natural key is that professional life accepts, that people have jobs. The number of people who receive financial support from their rural communities has decreased, and there are fewer on unemployment. [[The president calls.]] Besides, I'd like to point out why. A senator was involved in a government that twice proposed a bill in harmony with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u77	Madam President. I want less than I can get. The minister says that the bill did not go through the council twice for some reason. [[Up front.]] That's right, because the one standing here has experience with the operation of this country society that I'm very French on this bill. In my day the mayor came to me with a lot of problems. It can be at the top. Ministers think it's funny, but I didn't think it was funny to take people in very bad situations. If I tried this bill on the people I know, I'd be really worried about their happiness and their children. [[Up front.]] Madam President. I can't hear what's at the top. A minister calls in here, but I hope that if she has to express herself, she will put herself on the rosary to review the situation. But I'm critical of this bill. I'm concerned that if it happens to be law, it will severely take their children out of the way. I know that encouragement and assistance are the most important thing people can do. This is the most important thing, and that is what a good welfare community does. It encourages and supports, but it does not kick people who are in big trouble. Research shows and I'm sure it's the highest. A minister has studied well, that with the best welfare services, the greatest results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u78	Madam President. We'll discuss the financial support of a community partner and community service. There have been a number of interesting developments in the discussion and various viewpoints regarding the advancement of the State, which is overstepped in the rural areas, and much is the responsibility of the local community in this case. I'd like to say in the beginning that I'm not necessarily writing that these issues as they are today are in order, far from then on, and long ago they would have had to be revised. But I don't like the conclusion presented in this bill where financial support is in such a way that people go out of favors and may be cut in half for two months, and people can lose financial support for six months. I think it is a serious matter and a great change from what is now and not a good idea to include in our discussion that we need to support those who may least be allowed to share in society at any time. I'd love to hear from the highest. Ministers what it is exactly as this government has been doing in the elected period to increase effective measures for those groups that have been frequently referred to, which will become part of the financial assistance of rural society, and where they will get stuck, young people aged 183/425. What has the government been doing for them since its start? We are well aware of the actions taken for these groups during the last term without setting up a penalty frame against the people who have come to the end stop of having to accept the financial support of their comrades. We know study as a means of working a way in which people on unemployment could study and handle benefits and other resources that were used, which were very effective. I'm not familiar with the resources this government is supposed to have used for those who are weak, and I think it's a responsibility to speak as if it were done. We know from the present government that it has cut down child support and interest rates and reduced taxes on the highest income, but it has not met them in the same way. Everything that has been done seems to be to me primarily to increase the level of inequities. In terms of the requirement that those who qualify to be employed may be deprived of financial support if they fail to follow the effective measures offered by the local community, I ask: Who is precisely qualified to determine whether the individual is employed? I don't think that's gonna happen here. We know that there are so many factors that affect the individual's ability to work or not. All community support services to these groups need to be very powerful, whether it is psychological service, mental help, or various means of learning and other things, but I feel that all of this is meant to be free and under positive merits, not in the form of punishment. I think people in general know that it's hard to beat people into obedience. It usually does not work, whether in training, teaching, or otherwise, to put the problem in such a way as to threaten the loss of this or the failure of a person and not to do what the person wants to do. It is much more healthy and normal to work on positive merits by the people who are in position to take the challenge of applying for the financial support of rural society and to have more incentive for the system that encourages people to seek and use the labour market resources and efficiency tools that the community has to offer. The rest can turn in people's hands. If we think of these people first and foremost, which I think is the meaning of all of us, we should, of course, work with people, with functional instruments, and all that we can do, but don't put them against a wall. This can put a great deal of spiritual stress on people who are put in a position to face the fact that if they leave the straight course, they will lose financial help, which is not a high amount, and nothing to cry out for. You also ask yourself, " Would it not have been more right to look for ways to coordinate financial support, to place some floor so that people, wherever they live in the country, can be sure that they are comparable to the amount of help available, comparable resources? ' I think it's human rights that society has to guarantee. Today, financial support can vary greatly, as I understand it. I think that there should have been a clear rule or made clear that it is by law that no community should be subject to a specific amount, which is viewed by the Ministry of Health. As I understand this, all of this is still floating, and our communities are not bound by offering comparable financial support. There's been talk about the children. They're a major part of all of this. We have to look at them. It is quite serious how many children in Iceland live in economic insecurity, and if it is not the order of this group of people, who must seek out the financial support of rural society and children, who really need support, I don't know what. As society, we are to prevent poverty traps and the lasting poverty of children. It is said that the financial support available to children will not be affected if the parent faces the loss of financial support or the loss of half of it for two months or for up to six months. But how does it play together, the amount of money that comes with each child, which I don't know exactly, if the other amount goes away? How could the parent possibly be able to provide for himself and his child, even though there are some small sums of money involved in the child? I don't see how this is supposed to play together. And where are we going to show this? The problem of these people is not disappearing, it doesn't vaporize, no more than when the unemployment period was cut short, it was not as if unemployed were automatically reduced, but it was ignored, as if the person's unemployment were going to disappear and everything would be fine. The problem remains with the people whose communities have the authority to expedite financial support. Where do we want to see that these people are looking? Where is it going to look? Are we bringing these people out to the gods and the people, or are we relying on the social aid of free partners, the Mother Control Committee, the Family Help, the Church? [[For example, consider the Family Help.]] Are we going to give them friends that there must be some out there who will receive them and with loving concern for them, because we as rich communities, kingdoms, and societies, are only wearing penalty frames and rules, and if people don't fit into that frame, they'll just have to save themselves somehow? I don't think this is a bad message, and I don't like the welfare community we want to build up here. I think that everyone agrees that everything you can do to improve your effectiveness and offer a wide range of ways to get people back to a better place, so that they can provide for themselves and their families, but it doesn't matter how you work with that challenge. A team member who is well - equipped are those who have done good work and who want to do well to see that there are resources available to offer. But what I don't think this government is what options are being offered. Do they cost them? What are some of their options? Everything has to be in place. It is possible to activate individuals without having them conditioned in a manner similar that they will not be fed for the next half of the month or will not eat for food or clothing. When people are in this place, the counsel has often been difficult, and people are not spiritually balanced, and it is very difficult to keep their arms around their families and keep their heads. In that case, if a person does not take the correct steps and may not have the strength to apply all the available effective talks, it is not necessary to be under the great pressure to be deprived of financial contributions. As mentioned earlier, both rural society and the general labour market need to work hard to open up the labor market for people with limited skills, have fallen out of the labour market, so that they can come back with dignity and have the opportunity to build up their confidence and educate themselves. Of course, we're supposed to put money on that show. This government, however, has worked against young people, I say, young people 25 years of age and older, can pursue education. We know that. It's all part of it. Then there's the highest. Social Affairs said that this government has done much good in these matters. [[The president calls.]] They don't see the end of anything, nor what comes out of this package.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u79	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's excellent speech and especially the fact that she drew a picture of it and asked questions about the people who were affected by financial problems. I come up here to ask what. paritaprevir That's exactly what Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney's doing for the bill. It's a bill that says we're going to weaken the last security network in the community and we're going to put people in some kind of test, and if they don't want the authority in the community, they're going to push it even further on the edge. In the bill, which is completely out of the mind of the law on local social services, no attempt is made to identify the situation for those in financial support. I know Reykjavíkurburg has very good information. I suppose most of the rural community has an excellent diagnosis, but there is no record of how long people spend an average of financial support, how many are thought to be in the long - term crisis. There is no statistical assessment, let alone the subject discussed in the bill. I'd like to ask you what. A senator what she says about this kind of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u80	Madam President. You see, this is a good point and, really, the point of this matter, that all writing lacks to build on and overlook the real problem. We know that this is a variety of people with different needs and problems. Of course, a good analysis of which groups are primarily associated and what could be done to meet especially the long - term groups should have been provided. There's been a thumb rule with it, and there's no doubt better analysis, such as here in the capital, of which group is primarily. It has been said that the group is 18 to 25. Of course, such analyses would have to be broad and wide throughout the country, something similar is not necessarily needed. However, when such analyses are known, the skilled men work hard to develop a set of tools that would help them get back to work, i.e. those who have skills, and place funds for those actions. I feel that so many people put on paper all sorts of lyrics out and south they talked about, going around things like a cat around a hot grin. But then there's no money in such an operation. [[The president calls.]] It's just the end, the end and the lock.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u81	Madam President. Yes, this is a lot of ambition and a complete lack of respect for the circumstances of people who are facing great difficulties. We who put laws in this country and have financial resources must also be aware that we are in a privileged position. We have an obligation to protect everyone's interests, including those who need the temporary advancement of their community, but they do not have fixed monthly wages as we do, and they need not worry about whether we can buy clothes on our children or allow them to participate in handball courses. No attempt is made to analyze this on the bill, no attempt. When the case was last discussed on a welfare committee, we asked for detailed information. This is what has been described in a Mexican way during the discussion that is now the young generation, so there is a group of boys who love to hang on the computer. All our community has to do is bring its deputies and shake them a little bit and tell them how the money's gonna happen on the island. But what did it show? Young people have not increased proportionately in support of financial support. It's just a gnat. Of course, when the valley gets tough, when unemployment increases, as it happened in the crash, there is an increase in the number of people in need of financial support. There are more young people than older ones, for young people have weaker employment positions. This is not listed in the bill. It is based on Mexican Creeds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u82	Madam President. The challenge is that young boys are trapped on the computer, and they don't want to work, and they need to get out in the morning of swimming and doing something, and they need to beat people up in these matters only. This is not the best way to build on the foundation. Rather, we need to have good diagnostics so that we can cooperate with those involved and not be joking. The group in each situation who is in need of financial assistance to a community has no union. He has no common voice. He won't walk to the East and protest. [[Foreground on: No.]] He's not in that position. He trusts in the right - to - see members of a local community, at the General Assembly, to protect their rights when the group is in the area that needs the most confidence that national and local representatives will protect their rights and offer adequate rights and that people can walk gracefully back to the labour market when they have been helped without having an obligatory notice in some penalty frame. I'm going to go to the end of the room with my quote: Economic Support Socially They find many to be a burden. Everything here is going to be the worst and the problem would be great. This is what I present in the name of the government and some of the countryside.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u83	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I understand it so that, in fact, she agrees with me that it is understandable for certain rural communities to call for a clearer perspective on financial support and that, in fact, local societies have a primary need of resources to guide the people to help straighten out the cow, to support it, and to help get out of a position that no one wants to be. No one wants to be in the position of knocking on the company's door and asking for help. Still, isn't the bill a lot of work at the top of the bill? Is a government doing otherwise? The unemployment period has been cut short. Despite the fact that those who are in the worst position are just tenants, house - to - house payments have not increased the entire ideal period. There are our poorest people, and the children who have the most want are in just such a position. V.E.G. Economic and economic secretary has stated from this platform that it is important to consider that the terms of disability are worse than those of the lowest remuneration because they include young men who need less compensation. Of course it's the highest word. A minister would not have to starve them out of their position, but he could be understood that way. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would not agree that in the same spirit this bill is? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u84	Madam President. Yes, you cannot say that the welfare glasses exist in this government. In some way, it's obvious that people can be fooled, put them out of the hell's way, put them to work, and ideally out of disability, just try to let them take care of themselves, and then the problem disappears. The problem, however, will not disappear if people are starving for obedience. We know that the problem will not go away. Of course, what this government has done in so many areas is reducing the well - being of those who need it, and this is a dangerous development. I think it's very important that all of our rural communities harmonize their financial support with positive merits and bring it much closer to the services at the Ministry of Health. A number of practical suggestions have been provided by the well - being of the well - being department in many joints and were available in a report. I don't see that much was taken on this report of the Department of Traffic on this bill any more than in any other government action. There is a lot of concern when you let your assessment work as directed by the Department of Traffic, it analyzes the problem and then nothing depends on what it says. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u85	Madam President. Two. The bill is referred to as allowing for up to six months of financial support if the individual fails to meet the criteria listed. It says here, by permission of the President: It is illegal to reduce financial support, which is especially because of child development or for the intended children according to the rules. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she does not feel that the bill is worth the benefit of children. Is it not obvious, though, that if money has been cut short for up to six months, it will affect the implementation of children in the home, though, that there are special financial support for child forwards or that are intended for children under rules? I think it's obvious that there's more to it than that. paritaprevir The Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir. There must be more information to provide, and to consider the circumstances of those who are involved in financial support and who have suffered some losses, some of which they have, how the situation is, and how it worked. My feeling is that it's like spanking your ass, it's working for a short time, but it can have long-term bad side effects. [[Up front.]] That's what I think will follow the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u86	Madam President. Of course, children's lot in all of this is a major factor. There's a senator coming in. What will their lot be when it comes to punishing their parents and crowding their interests, how will they survive, the innocent children who cannot carry their hand in front of them? It is said that some special child development should not be affected. What is its share relative to the contribution available to the communities? I don't know about that, but it's enough. I think we all run cold water between skin and skin on the thought of a child who looks up at her parent in the difficult situation of actually having no duplication for six months. That's a terrible idea. The people in this place are more often than not in the local community's social housing. How is it to live up to the rent? The duties of the team as I understand them are that people are not thrown out on the street. In what cycle are people arrived, and to whom do they benefit? Is it any good to work with people, to build them up, and to do things so that people will see the sun again when they have found themselves in such a difficult situation? I think we need to analyze these matters much better and put them into practice working with positive merits by those who are temporarily needing community assistance. [[The president calls.]] We never know who's gonna be next.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u87	Madam President. I see myself moved to come to my second speech, unfortunately, I can't come in anymore, but as has been said in this discussion, before and after that, I am very opposed to this bill. I think it's in the spirit of liberalism, it's a complete lack of respect for community responsibilities and respect for all of us regardless of our circumstances. [[Up front.]] Here we assume that the human beings are just a tooth wheel in some kind of work, and they need to make sure that everyone is working in the interest of their jobs and that people are not tortured, they are wasted into laziness and inhumanity. This, of course, is completely in opposition to everything that involves human behavior and understanding of people's circumstances. Now, in terms of financial support, many people use financial support for a very short period of time to cover a particular period of trouble. How grateful we are that not many people need financial support for an extended period of time! In recent years, however, this ideologies have taken up space in Britain, Sweden, Denmark, and many more countries. We no longer talk about people's professional security. No, we talk about effective measures for people who are suspected of being too lazy to participate in society. Farmers have shown a professional lack of ambition to start using these impairments without having legal authority. Here's a minister giving them the authority. She's not protecting and defending the rights of the citizens of the city, no, she's walking the most concerned rural society that wants to save and not show any professional ambition. In this case, social services should allow a workforce to determine if a person is employed. A good agency of employment has been successful through the collapse and all its unemployment. But I don't know that a professional agency is considered to be a special authority regarding the assessment of the working skills of people. It would be more reasonable for doctors, psychologists, and social workers to decide, since it is social psychology factors and physical factors that control whether we are employed or not. So it is that many people in financial assistance are truly able and willing to work, but when problems persist and you have come to the countryside for help, you have made many defeats along the way. There are many things to do in life, and people need help to get out of that situation. It is, of course, part of a source of encouragement and faith that people are able to be active members of the community. That's our class. We have countless social advisers who do a tremendously good and professional job with their communities. They need to be developed and put money into them to help people with self - help. That's the right way to deal with people in trouble. That is the way that I would like to react if I were in a position not to be able to support myself for some time on my own. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u88	President. Thank you. A senator's speech. We share the fundamental belief that this matter is very bad and that there is much to be needed in Icelandic legislation. I'd like to ask you what. A senator and the head of the welfare committee, who received almost complete agreement for the last session, about two things in my previous answer. First, there is a change in local social services law. It is a fundamental law of 1991 with a clear objective. The objective article says, with permission from the President: ▪ The aim of rural social services is to ensure financial and social security and contribute to the well - being of the people on the basis of community support. It says that this is accomplished by improving the standard of living for those who are in a state of dedication and by ensuring the development of child - rearing conditions, as well as other factors. This is the introduction to local social services law. This is the soul in the way we want our community service to be thought of and how we want our social services to have a more sensitive purpose in ensuring financial and social security and contributing to the well - being of the people on the basis of helpers. A respectable president. Now all I can say is that I believe that the bill to be discussed at the council is against the law itself. I want to ask you why. A senator whether this has been a special consideration in the ministry's relations with the why. A health committee, i.e. that the bill is directly against the objective of its mother's law, as it were. [[The president calls.]] I come to my second question in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u89	Madam President. Thank you for a very good question. I'm going to agree, the 1991 community service law is a very beautiful law, and it's a landmark law. She was put in the presence of the social minister of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and her ideal, as well as a number of people and brilliant officials. Many of them are still in the Ministry today. I don't doubt they don't like these changes. As to whether the bill is in opposition to the purpose of the law, it's a good tip. We're going to do this in particular. I don't have the questions now that we from my part sent, but I remember that we haven't asked directly to this question. Of course, in conversations with various departments, communities, and various parties, it was noted that they felt that the legislatures were being carried out by pushing certain individuals further on the edge of society. There is a difference in our outlook of life. I wondered if those who believe in this are so denatured that they're not going to do anything unless they're kicked. But what do I know? This is correct, it is in opposition to its objective, and in effect, these bill articles come like the demon from the sheep's arm and are totally opposed to the spirit of social services.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u90	President. I think it's a lot to think about when we have such key laws in front of us, like the local community service laws that go through the Council of 1991, and we're going to make this law-change really change to the spirit of the law without being given the highest power. Ministers of Social Affairs to face the Generals, their people, and poor people in Iceland, saying that we are going to abandon the goals found in Article 1. The law. Then the Minister shall do it because it fails, in today's shelter, to act as if there were some negligible changes in existing legislation and to overlook the nature of it, as reflected in Iceland's CREEP statement to a comparable bill at the last council. I'd like to ask you, too. Because it is very important to keep them on the show, on the Department report on measures to overcome the poverty that came out in January 2015. Among the fine reports, there are criteria for minimal progress and particularly of the ideas of the kind found in the forward bill. According to the Court's proposal, the staff sees closely how the bill is angry at the council, and it can be reasoned that they are concerned that there is a lack of material family, especially single parents and their children, that the environment of these people is being overlooked. I'd like to ask about the approach of the Department of Health to the Committee's work, how it's being done, because it specifically says that the welfare watch is supposed to go over and monitor the development of the council. So, at the end, I would like to ask if there is not a full reason for the welfare committee to provide a specific analysis and a detailed analysis of the impact of the bill's operating on the poverty of Iceland and particularly the poverty of children in the light of the UNICEF report that has been discussed here and the new objectives of the United Nations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u91	Madam President. Yes, there certainly is, detailed diagnostic work to be done. As I said in my speech, this bill is characterized by a professional lack of ambition. Worse yet, decisions are being made without any attempting to examine the underprivileged group or the consequences to it. This is evident in the course of liberal thinking, for lack of respect for the welfare of the individual is absolute. As for the welfare watch, we got her to our exact meeting last time we discussed the case, it was a very helpful meeting. There is an important work to be done. However, there are a number of people who appear at the Strategies Department and reported in the case of the visitors who came before the committee that the welfare department does not speak in a single voice in this matter, although it may be read from its results that this is considered a very dangerous and dangerous step to take. But we will, of course, discuss the welfare department as well as some others with this matter on a welfare committee. It's a lot to think about that when we send out a review of matters relating to seabeds or energy or just social security, it's not a lack of reporters who have a direct interest in legislation, which is a group that is not an organized group, who are having a very difficult time caring for their interests. We have to keep that in mind, and it's our job to be interestskeepers for the poorest in Iceland and these legislation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u92	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir for the speech. As we have discussed many times, I think we all agree that we need to improve our efficiency. That's what we've said a million times. But I want to agree with it. In his speech, a senator said that when it comes to this matter, a different view of how we should get people to work is in itself a small part of the welfare of our society. Today, rural society is already applying various conditions, even though it does not have a legal authority. That's what I want to think about. A member of Congress whether it was closer, rather than standing here and arguing as to whether this will lead to increased activity in the community, is simply taking away from all ambiguities and bans all, for example, on social services laws, and if anyone feels that it is too radical even to add a warning even if only then would there be an analysis of the social consequences of it and has had to do with those who have already used some kind of functional approach. I can honestly believe that this may work on some part of the group, but it's the rest of them that I'm worried about. [[The president calls.]] It's the others that this thing doesn't work and thus push even further to the edge of society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u93	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir. Of course, the matter is to be taken care of and banned. This is natural, so no one can find financial support unless certain circumstances arise. Most of the rights involved in social status are highly bound to certain conditions. But conditions allowing people who truly are in a very difficult situation, i.e. the measures taken by this forward are not acceptable, and it is even less in the absence of a serious analysis of the consequences it may have. It is much better to ban the practice and to review it with the local communities what is needed to help them finance their financial support and to provide the services of a social worker, and to look to various resources that can be used. This is where it sits. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, who begins to represent a group of people who are reviewing the social services of rural society with the goal of ensuring forwardness. I find it very strange that the legislatures are so bent on restricting the rights of people in a weak position that they must not wait for their revision of the law to take this whole thing into consideration, instead of actually making the goal of the law laughs and targets.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u94	Madam President. I think this is an important point. A senator entered the conclusion of the answer to me, of course, that these issues need to be considered in context. I feel like I'm starting to sound a bit like a broken record when I say here again and again that I think it all too often happens that we deal about such a disciplined little bit of society at once without having all the big picture underneath. Of course, it is often very difficult. But when there is the possibility of revising a law related to what we are talking about, it is so elaborate, even though it may be difficult and challenging. I think we should make the requirement that we always try as much as we can to keep the picture in perspective. I'd like this second answer, because in the first answer I might come up with something that might be said to be the key, to mention what might be another small, specific thing, and I'd like to ask a question. A member of the body is also involved, and this law also applies to those who work part - time. I worry about what such a spirit it can bring, so I ask. A senator would agree with me because there is nothing in Icelandic law that forbids discrimination because of disability, that the authority is going far too far to place responsibility on individuals who are socially in a more delicate position, but make very little demands when it comes to the labour market to hire people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u95	Madam President. Well, my answer is yes. It is true that ungainly financial powers lost the Western economy, the whole of cold coal, the Icelandic banking system collapsed, and much of the world had to take on drastic rescue measures. In the United States, countries of freedom, the government contributed enormous sums and in the United Kingdom, the countries where liberalism has been given the full amount of freedom into the financial market, where government had to intervene with very much money and contribute much to the saving of the financial system. It is so remarkable, though, that in the pursuit there has been a growing will not to take responsibility for the consequences for the people who live and live in those countries. It presents a systematic challenge to certain individuals because those who have interests of the big carts and are enriched in them do not want to face the fact that we are in a situation where wealth is divided and power is concerned. Now, an equation grew here very much during the last human government's time. We will see the figures that it is shrinking, for the government's actions now aim to please the most highly. V.E.G. Minister Harðardóttir Harderdó, allowed herself to talk about, but she was so tasteful to say that the previous government had done something, the action of the current government in that direction, but she could not mention one single, not one action that would get the worst of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u96	Madam President. We are deeply distressed about this matter, and we need not be surprised. When it comes to this action, we can ask ourselves, " What is the significance of this term?'When we think of the homes in our country, it can be thought of that concept that it was generally marketed before elections and especially by the candidates. This may get into it. It was the thought of reducing the debt of some people at home. However, this does not seem to reach the point where local social services should meet those who suffer appropriately. I say again and again that I think this is part of the counter-important activities on behalf of the municipal society due to the unemployment insurance, this should help reduce the financial status of the local community as presented in the bill. It would be nice to read the reviews of those who may be most active with the people who need such assistance, such as the review of Iceland's Social Counseling Association, which was presented when the matter was submitted to the last assembly. The Society makes serious comments to the debate on the bill, including it is said to be an active welfare policy, but the union cannot agree that its contents are consistent with the effective welfare policy. It points out that, in fact, action, encouragement, and reward are not expressed. Rather, the emphasis is primarily on conditions and impairment or punishment. That is exactly how it is, punishments rather than using a reward and encouragement to work, as I did in my first talk. The social worker society is like I disagree with this approach. They believe that the bill does not depend on social advice values and rejects the approach shown in the bill and believes that factor activities should primarily be associated with rewards. I hadn't read it yet, and I find it interesting to see that the company also asks me what the connection is to an Icelandic labour market. I am deeply concerned that not many employers are willing to accept these people because, as I explained earlier, long - term work often has great and varied problems when it comes to trying to get a job. I must be thinking, as they have been told, that there seems to be no reason for human rights and humanity. If that were the case, it would not be that negative sign. It is possible to have an increased activity participation in people's activities. It does not have to have negative labels, it can well have positive labels. Also, it is not defined or legally established that rural communities need a comparable frame to deal with their assigned tasks. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir Among other things, Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter is not wrapped up in the welfare system facing children. We have been discussing the lack of children and the lack of children, and this is not all - out of it. This affects children. Of course, children of poor parents will be affected if a parent has a decrease in financial support for two whole months and is able to provide about half of that insignificance. It's just inevitable. We hear of older citizens and microorganisms, many of which have been identified. The people involved here are probably less stable than that group. In view of the plea that is now out in the community, how can we justify the failure of groups of lazy ones to continue to contribute to some sort of impairment? All that is up to the premise, they just believe that people who are making these compensations are generally discouraged from going to work. [[The president calls.]] While there are black sheep in this group as there are everywhere, here at council as well as elsewhere, it would be more correct to believe that people can be led out of the low plain by being unemployed and having to draw strength to the countryside. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u97	Madam President. I'd kind of like to continue with the same question that I've been asking for today, and it's about this bill that's going to allow the breakdown and weakening of the community's base security network; the Internet that's supposed to grab us when all other options are gone. The bill has no attempt to define the problem we are facing, which is simply that with increasing unemployment, financial support is increasing, and when unemployment decreases, financial support decreases. Just like it's happening right now. What is remarkable is that the total number of people in the economy now went to a financial crisis where unemployment was much lower than it was here in 2009. There is no attempt here to describe the financial support group. There are no statistical data on the average financial length. All the analysis of the subject is missing. I think it's so ambitious and weird. I'd like to ask you what. A senator knows if she likes this. I know that it disagrees with the ideologies, but does it comfort her that the Ministry is ambitious in not sending out better information when it comes to such a harsh and dramatic legislation?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u98	Madam President. Yes, that may come about. This is as if there are some things that you can't seem to be waiting for results. A minister earlier said that there had been no evidence in the Ministry, had to be collected, etc. You ask yourself why you can't wait. What is the point of this bill? Is it primarily, as the bill puts it, about the economics of the rural community rather than the practical welfare policy? That's how it works on me. In one word, we cannot speak of poor people, poor children who suffer want, and then say: "You people who have come to the countryside, because there is nothing else that will try, we are also going to cut you down. People do not promote a community - they are very hard to meet - unless they are completely lost. I agree with the analysis, but I would have liked to see taken out here at home how the clients of these test teams, or what we want to call those who have been using it, have come out. What has happened to them? Where are they today who have had to submit to the conditions outlined here? I don't really understand why a minister is so upset about this case. It's like drinking wine, but it's top priority, but it doesn't matter to the State in itself that it's too difficult to wait until the available tunnel gets into the house.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u99	V.E.G. President. This is exactly the question that burns on your lips. What will happen to people who suffer from loss because they do not willingly participate in government policies? When we ask the question on a welfare committee, the communities say, "We don't know. " Of course, there are many stories about what happens, but we can assume that a certain group is pushing further onto the edge of society and that they do not consider themselves worthy to be a part of our community. That's actually being said, "Viscus, you're not with us anymore. " Now go to the underworld and be there with your own kind. It's a humanitarian policy. The bill reviews the implementation in the North countries and the North countries have acted like idiots in these chemicals and have been increasing the conditions gradually over the last 10 to 20 years. It is thought - provoking, especially for us on the left wing, that the extremes, national forces, have grown to the edge of the northern and European countries, and it is not least for voters who are flocking behind these groups because of disappointments because they believe we have not protected the people's interests but the capital forces. Then come the popes with nationalistic messages, creating scapegoats, who are immigrants, some who are worse off or who may be converged in some way. [[The president calls.]] I think we should remember in Iceland not to make the North countries a role model for pressing the least members of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u100	Madam President. I agree that we should look to it as rain. A senator was talking about. When it is obvious that people and their circumstances in order to live a decent life are changing, we should not take the initiative to imitate them. Not in this case, no more than in so many others. We are to take the lead in making our foundation so that people can maintain dignity, people who have to deal with the reality of losing their job, even losing their control of life for a certain time. It should not also be necessary to live down to a low level of income by up to half of it for two months so that it almost leads to death. I'm afraid someone can be pushed across the line at such times. I don't believe that most of those who are reaching out for service or support in the countryside are there because they don't want to go to the job market. There are some things that can lie underneath that are difficult to handle and deal with. Among other things, there are mental illness that is most difficult to deal with. As I have said, it also needs to be shown that the workforce is willing to accept people for good. And he's not, he's not ready to offer people 20% or 30% jobs, or whatever they have now. They may be at work today, but they may not be there tomorrow because their situation is yes, so it is difficult to get out of bed in the morning. [[The president calls.]] The second support is available, but it should have positive signs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u101	Madam President. It is of utmost importance when we discuss this bill, which is about the terms of the financial support of the local community, to keep in mind that the financial assistance of our rural society is the last Internet in our welfare system, which grabs people when they cannot support themselves, either because they're out of work, they're not entitled to other systems of our welfare, e.g. the microenergy pension system, or they've run out of their rights in other systems, such as the unemployment insurance system. This must always be kept in mind when talking about the group on which this bill is directed. This discussion has quoted laws on local social services and, above all, the objective of the law. I'm not going to use the short talk time I have to read these goals up, but I still want to build a big one and mention some key points, such as the goal of securing people's financial and social security and promoting the well - being of the people on the basis of cooperation. This should be done by improving the standard of living for those who are in their feet and ensuring mature training conditions for children and young people. Let us keep these two points in mind because there have been many references in this discussion that we especially need to keep in mind that we really do not know how many children live in homes that are already conditioned. It would have been most intriguing into this discussion that the chairman of the Committee on Social Services Review, why. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson Thorsson would have been actively involved in this discussion, since these issues must be related and related. I just wondered, " Is this a foretaste of what will come? ' Can it be expected that the content of the social services right now should be revised? Of course, this is relevant to the discussion we are in right now. Madam President. Because my rural society is already on conditions, I do not trust to rule out the failure of an example in which it has worked and that some individuals have come into effect because conditions have been used. It's not really the group I'm particularly worried about, it's the group that's pushed even further to the edge of society because he has still less money between his hands to survive, and therefore he can't share in any way in society. I remember it when so far Dani arrived and talked about how the system works in Denmark where he spoke of this as a growing problem, i.e. People who have just come to the edge of society because conditions have not really served their goal but, in reality, pushed people away from taking an active part in the welfare of society. Therefore, there must be information on what has happened to those people who have been conditioned here in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u102	Madam President. You see, it's a big question: What happens to people? The last time we asked this on a welfare committee, like why. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir remembers, we received answers that our rural communities did not know. They may have made progress and tried to get some information on this and feel responsible for these people of the local community, but we will be able to come to that point when the committee considers this matter. We who speak against the terms do not speak against all manner of action in order to get people involved. It has been a long time for humans to be demonized, and it has not been left alone. It has a spiritual effect on people who stand outside and live on chronic unemployment. There is often much to be done to qualify for participation, but it does not threaten you but motivate you. That's why I'm all for it. I believe we should not be afraid of it, and we should spend our money on that assignment. All of us want to be part of our society and to be responsible for ourselves. I have studied these matters in all these discussions because my heart is troubled. In Sweden, there are about 100 of you. a person was involved in some way of working more and less during the last ten years. Given the situation ten years ago, 120 you have. low-paying job gone. There are also changes in labour markets that affect a person's ability to make progress. [[The president calls.]] We are to look at that aspect of the matter rather than at the extent of a major system problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u103	Madam President. I couldn't agree more. A senator in that we do not have a system problem. Therefore, in all this discussion, I have repeatedly noted that I find very strange that nothing in Iceland forbids discrimination in a labour market, e.g. caused by loss or loss of vision. I just think it's crazy. If it doesn't feel any better, I may just have to bring a bill that we're taking it into law. Like what? A senator pointed out that it appeared last year. The welfare committee that rural communities did not know much about what will happen to those who have been used. I would've wanted to see that from the highest. A minister decided to reimburse the bill had taken up this information. Then there would be some solid evidence that we would have to evaluate the effect of what is already being done. To say that in this first answer, I would like to end up saying because I didn't get it in my speech before that I believe that, rather than granting authority to the local community to apply conditions, I almost had to go completely in the other direction, take from all the doubles, and simply forbid all the conditions, to form by reference to local social services laws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u104	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. We've had quite a conversation today. Hv. A senator has several times mentioned that we do not have law forbidding discrimination in a job market, so I would like to ask him why. A senator whether or not we are dealing with the same misdemeanors as in the discussion of working performance assessments instead of micro-energy evaluations. People who are evaluated for 75% disability in the right of disability and many of those people, or a particular group, can work, some can do almost full-time work, most, some cannot work at all, but a large group could work with a flexibility of some tiny ratio and would love to, but the labour market just doesn't offer them jobs. That's where the big problem lies. For ten years we've been in the process of talking about performance assessments, and now it's time to change the approach to the micro-energy donor, what they can but can't do. This is a little funny because it's a discussion about something that's not really the problem. The real problem is lack of work, not the will of people with difficult, long - term diseases to work. Generally, people want them if they can and if they get jobs that fit their circumstances and that they feel they are looking for. This requires a degree of flexibility and low employment ratio. On committees, we will discuss the disability industry, not the system that makes people with disability assessments impossible to work, except for a few, far too few. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-04-74.u105	Madam President. Hv. I think it's very important for me to talk and try to make a complete affair. It is true that last loss has been said much about the importance of achieving a work record instead of a microenergy evaluation. Now, the last thing I'm going to do is measure the current disability assessment system or the social security system too much. There are many things changed and improved. It's very complicated, but it also has advantages, perhaps especially for people with some types of impairment. Hv. A member of the body of elders, including part - time jobs, introduced a lack of employment. That's one of the things I'm worried about when it comes to professional ability assessment, i.e. that we create a social security system that is based on a partial improvement but that is part of a workout. Of course, that's a good and noble goal and I think any poor person wants to have a job, at least Partly, but it has been suggested that there is a lack of these jobs. But it's not just that, we've just seen the fact that disabled people are laid off their part - time jobs. For example, we can mention the myths of the bus and the layoffs at the Lands Bank, reminding me that disabled people who were then at work were dismissed. This position must always be kept in mind when we are going to create a system, whether it is in the national social security system or in the community service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need to keep this reality in mind and remember it, not just thinking about something that looks good on paper.
