ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u1	To answer, financial and economic ministers, health ministers, educational and cultural ministers, environmental and resource ministers and industrial and commercial ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u2	A respectable president. V.E.G. A financial minister has emphasized in recent days that management in the government cannot be the same as in preschool. So I ask the Minister for the Management Board when it comes to the loss of age in this country, whether the government is not there by personal proposals, or whether nothing should be done with the no-name job that has been going on all this terms, whether differences between the management parties prevents the possibility of simplifying and raising the pension in this country by installing the bill that already lies ahead of a simple and progressive pension. Is it the Independence Party, or head of the Independence Party, that stands in the way of a bill entering the council and being able to work or where this important matter is going? Was a review of the social security system put in a committee during this terms just to kill the case on the committee or should there be nothing to do with the proposals given to the Committee? I don't know any better than this, this summer, an employee group with a financial minister of themselves wrote a bill to simplify and raise their pension in the country, and I thought it would be best for all classes in the council that it might be done and that the proposals would be used in support of the older citizens' union. So already in the fall of the autumn. Social Affairs begins to talk about these matters, saying that he is not following policy or is somehow off the line and that a minister who behaves in such a way cannot expect his case to be paid in the council. That's why I'm asking Bjarni Benediktsson, chief. Financial Minister: I don't want to be served at the fall council with suggestions from a group of members of his own government that have ordered the rise and simplicity of the pension that is fully in agreement with the committee, including the Commission. If I know the truth, will the representatives of the secretary of finance? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u3	A respectable president. First of all, I think it was a bit of a failure because maybe it was wrong for me to think that at the schools, men could get their way by hitting on the table, but it's not like some nursery teachers have pointed me out, and I understand, a child who lives at a nursery. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] On the issues of older citizens and microblooms who have been studied, i.e. The Social Security Act, all this terms I'd like to say: We've had a lot of emphasis on improvements for the groups under it. We did so right away during the first days of this government by removing the limitations they groups had to suffer during their last terms. You might ask yourself, " What did going into this country bring in the financial balance of going into the poorer parts of this country that mentioned between the hands and the opportunity to save themselves? ' What would it have added to the 390 billion budget paid by the left government in its four years to let go of the damage to the social security system? [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] So we managed to withdraw the impairments and have increased the benefits. Along with the changes we've made and have provided that today there are 28 billion people in the social security system beyond what we've already meant when we took it, this bill has been won. A senator referred to him. It's been on the welfare Department's web for the past few months, and I'm waiting for a minister of the jury to play a case in the government. Otherwise, of course, I can't answer for other ministers here, what they intend to do with their own business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u4	A respectable president. Then the question is simple: Does Minister of finance support the bill that aims to simplify a pension and its rise in the council now and to act as law in the fall, so that in Iceland, age-exploited pensioners are allowed to see simplified social security systems, higher improvements and less impairments in accordance with the suggestions the government itself has worked for years, and for some incomprehensible reason the council has not arrived? Is the minister of finance willing to place the money he needs in order for that bill to become legal? Will he support it, and is it a priority for payment here at this fall council? Does it mean something to the government that they want to simplify their social security system and improve the interest of the elderly? Will she bring in the bill that she herself has written about, and get it done through the council in the fall? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u5	A respectable president. Of course, I support the simple social security system that has become more stable and understandable to all who need to be trusted. Of course, I support my work and have always done so, and we have appointed a representative who has shared fully in the work. I am concerned, however, with the general development of the social security system because of the general talk of older citizens' issues. I'm calling attention to the fact that the bill that has been sitting in front of a shrink this summer is expected that we will have to defend approximately 5 billion to implement these changes. I ask myself, in view of the discussion here at the council Hall and beyond: How many people will experience a major change in their rights when we compare it with the increases that took place in the last few years when we did not put 5 billion into the system, we put 10 billion in the system for the last year, and it was spoken of as nothing mattered a little bit? [[The president calls.]] That is why I am concerned that, in fact, enough people will feel a much better position with the changes involved. [[The president calls.]] I'm not sure that's right. A senator says that in all cases there is a reduction in the rate of failure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u6	A respectable president. On Thursday, however, Harðardóttir Hardydóddóttir, the highest. Secretary of society and housing, sat by to provide financial policy for the future. This was a tool that many here had great faith in as a reformer, we were looking forward to a longer future than each year's budget, and they had some expectations for this tool. This was both political news and a reversal of the government, as we have seen and the highest. The government faced several problems with the secretary of finance, especially because of the Supreme Court. The social and housing minister reasoned that the future might not be cared enough and that the matter could not be supported by the pensioners and children's families. The government's Department of Social Affairs says that these groups are not to be looked forward to when we finally have the opportunity to make a long - term plan. For these reasons, I would like to ask the highest. Financial and economic secretary of this, for he himself wrote a letter to voters, seniors among voters, in the 2013 election campaign, where he lists and puts out what the Independence Party will do and then puts it, by permission of the President: Tells you the highest. Secretary of finance that he was chairman of the Independence Party, the promises he made to his voters, did he fulfill the plans set out in this letter? The words of a social minister who says that these matters are not fully placed in the vision of the same minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u7	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this inquiry. These are certainly important issues to discuss at the council. First about the letter. Yes, I think we've done very well with the promises there. Men have been particularly concerned that we were going to dislodge revenues for pensions, but it was just the first act of this government to eliminate the amount of money taken from basic life, we did in our first days. In other respects, I believe that the entire point of this letter is quite valid when compared with the actions we have taken. Regarding the long-term program, I'd like to say two things, on the one hand: when we were discussing stable taxes, stability donations, then there was often talk about the fact that the government that is currently sitting would not be allowed to use the stability proposal or the stable tax to get back into the election and spend it in the election hall. It's been a few months. Here I am following a new government budget and under a charge from these same senators who said that we could not spend all of this on some new budget and are under oath for not spending enough money on the various systems of the state. So they've been talking about themselves in the perfect circle. Second, I'd like to say that when it happened. The current social security minister was here a civilian on the front of the board, and she was in the prefect for the SEC. Among the findings of the committee was that we must work for the future on the basis of the so - called framework laws, which is exactly the same idea as long - term financial programmes. A respectable president. I think that when we look at the scene, we'll consider fairly what the government has been working on in these matters as well as others, we've been making the most of the budgets that have developed in recent years. [[The president calls.]] We've improved the scope with specific measures, e.g. By taxing broken - up prices, thus protecting the families of the country, working people, and making room for welfare matters available to us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u8	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers of Answers but also wants to ask, because he here speaks of our having a new space, and we've improved our allowance: when is it time to make room in the state to be used in the interests of the elderly and disability pensioners? When is it due if it is not now, if it is not time for a new government budget. Minister? What is the actual priorities of the minister? There was a unique opportunity for the budget in December. To create a parapolitic reconciliation, I am afraid to tell a national agreement about real compensation for these people. There was considerable harmony with their emphasis on society. Where's your priorities, if it's the highest. The minister of finance believes that there was no opportunity to do better with these people at that point and into the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u9	A respectable president. I do not fully understand this talk when it comes to saying that I did not have time to do better. That has exactly been the scope that we have created to do better. That's why today we're putting the right of some 28 billion more in the social security system than we were when we took up the job. Approximately 5 billion of these 28 are due to the growth of new reformers. The biggest part is because we've improved. I'm sure there's another as long period of time as we're discussing here, this ideal period, where money gains have grown as fast as we can. Berries, whether increasing, rise in value or pay. In terms of compensation, there is no buy-off increase. Remuneration when inflation is as low as it has now been will result in a high price gain. It's been so recently that I think it's going to be so difficult to find a second period of improvement as it has just been. That doesn't change what we're doing. A senator agrees that we need to keep on doing better. [[The president calls.]] There's good news in the budget program, we're getting real resistance to put more in and do better. [[The president calls.]] And as a result of the second inquiry that has been made, I believe it should be done on the basis of improved social security laws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u10	A respectable president. It is sometimes said that there are two nations living in that land. One that's got everything in the funds from abroad and the rest of us who have all of us in this country. But you also sometimes feel that there are two governments in this country, and they are competing with pretending that they do not know each other. Therefore, there is good reason to ask the highest question. Secretary of finance as another foreman of these sort two governments, which are in the country, when long-term policy has been adopted, government policy and national financial policies of 2017-2021. I've come to the Ministry, and I know that in the fall, people are preparing for the future, the following year, after what plan is being done at the Ministry of Health? So, then, is there no preparation for this cooperation and the government planning? Is it just the old policy there, or how should we appreciate it when the government isn't all in favor of this kind of thing? What is involved in working there? It is only natural that one of the two government task directors is asked that question. How can it be already the highest? The social and housing minister insists that at all levels of the situation, he is informed that the matter is still entering the government, taking a vote in which it is handled in this exorcised manner by the government? What does that tell us about our work ethic? Don't you hear what people say at the government table? When it comes to this matter that we have seen in all other aspects of this government, are there the same compromise and carelessness?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u11	A respectable president. You can't belittle it, I think, that we've cleared up from here from the council of this government budget and government policy. It is all true that the budget is changing each year and new policy comes with a new government, but the fact that the council is working according to this new procedure makes a big difference in my mind about the future. I'm sure it's not that this will be the first and only time that an individual minister feels that he would need more of his share, into his own cause, in order to achieve the goals that the minister has set for himself, I feel very unlikely. Still, that is so that the suggestions have a setting of context. The context is summed up in this: We are creating space to make more room for personal and well - being. You can only read the numbers. If you read e.g. The last long-term program being carried out in the previous government, which was due in the fall of 2012, can see that in 2016, this year, we have created approximately The estimated 25 billion allowances in less interest, the less successful we would be this year, and the 25 billion are on welfare, transport, and so on. We agree that we need to do better than we can say to the people of the country, especially in terms of election action, that it is so simple that the decision to defend tens of billions more on the expense side is to sacrifice one of the main objectives of all the work that is that it will result in more stability in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u12	A respectable president. I've read the numbers. What I've seen is that they can't resist. There will be billions of dollars between the budget and the transport program when this is presented at the council. Who's gone after? Under the Ministry of Health, there are huge lawsuits. What policy is being taken there when the Minister does not support the government's policy and plan? It is respectable to think in the long run, I'm not going to deny it, though I have not supported the material or my category of this plan or agree with the emphasis it contained. Looking ahead is positive. But you must wonder, " What is the point when the numbers conflict? ' When it comes to transportation, what is the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs or Internal Affairs?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u13	Mr. President. This is a fine discussion, and we took part of it when we agreed to the official financial laws. This is what I think. The budget describes the broad lines. Let's just take an example. Suppose there is a new budget, let's say 700 million, so 800 million, something to be done and people generally agree on here, but long-term schedules were not expected. How should we react? Then we are talking about a case of 0.1% of the income, and the answer is very simple: There is room for this 800 million cases, despite the fact that the long - term plan was put together without men having it in mind. In fact, there would be room for 2 billion or up to 7 billion cases, that would be just 1% of your income. As long as you stay within the financial policy that has been staked out on the total amount of money, how your debt development is changing, etc., there would be room for that. [[The president calls.]] As everyone knows, there is more than once a year's income management strategy, and there is room to deal with as long as policies are not exceeded or to make fundamental changes in the topic areas. [[The president calls.]] But I believe that budgeting will be put together only by guidance in the program as approved by the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u14	A respectable president. It appeared during the days here that despite the 2013 Regulation, which allows for reimbursement from health insurance for dental expenses to the elderly and disability to be paid to the extent to which it should be done. It has been observed that the registry, the reference file, has not increased since 2004 and has resulted in reimbursement of patients who require dental services to have only fractures of the patient's actual and actual expenses. This has even been true. Otherwise, 100% reimbursers received an example of only 43%. Those entitled to receive 2/3 parts of the remuneration received only 28% from the Medical Insurance Institute and the group to receive approximately half the payback received only 19%. I have to ask the highest. Secretary of health how this works. Why is this Regulation, that the Index has not been updated since 2004? It's been 12 years, and we all know that the prices have changed dramatically. This situation is extremely unfortunate and completely unacceptable for elderly and desperate persons who need a lot of dental work and help in that area. There are always more and more elderly ones who keep their teeth, which in themselves are very good, but when their health breaks down and the person stops brushing properly or on medicines that can cause dry mouth and gum disease, the problems will crack up very quickly, both tooth damage and gum disease. So it is very bad that this group does not receive the payment that is entitled to them. I'm asking the highest. Healthcare Minister on what to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u15	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. This is my opinion also, and share it with rest. Senator, this is a very unfortunate situation and not adequate. The articles on why this has come to be true for countless. The regulations cited were set up on May 13, 2013. The change she made was priceless. From that year on, a dental contract was also available for children up to 18 years of age. That agreement was also priceless. The scope of our medical expenses was new to finance one of the expenses of child - care programs. Since then, I have stressed the importance of trying to reduce the payment of the public in the Icelandic health system and, fortunately, there was a huge agreement on this matter here in the spring months' hall. We started spring after the payment process, the changes she made, to get calculations, including in this Regulation, taking into account the proposal to make recommendations to the Council on the increased cost share of the state. So we have it in preparation, but as I would like to reiterate, the other two cases were put first.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u16	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that. A minister agrees with me that people should not be reluctant to go to dental service. But it's just like that, especially this system we have now, that since dental services are usually privateized, there is no official way, such as. In Norway, where there is a much more mixed system, for the members of society that most need our support. We're talking about long-term ills, we're talking about elderly people, we're talking about when dental health is getting rapidly worse in a very short period of time and a very high cost, it's really hard to get just about 43% of the amount of money that people really have right to pay. I hope to the highest. A health minister will use the 600 million who stand in the health insurance budget to deal with the criticisms that have been presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u17	A respectable president. According to our calculations, not long ago there are 800 million to meet the requirements of this Regulation. There are, as I could at present, other teams in the expenses of a certain depositer from health insurance that we are in the same way going over to see if there are no improvements. But there is a long way from having an acceptable position to have been trapped since 2004 in this particular factor. There is a great and rich will to make things right, and I hope to introduce suggestions there in a relatively short period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u18	Mr. President. I'm going to do an experiment, maybe a final attempt, in this terms, to enter the highest. Secretary of the budget according to whether there is anything or has been done on matters of the so-called loan group. V.E.G. The government has grueled many of its achievements in the matter of housing and its generosity in reducing debt, but this group has remained uncrowded unless, to a small extent, the amount of transfers he may have received in the large deduction. This is so, for example, that in the years leading up to the collapse of a excited real estate market, many bought an apartment, often the first apartment, with the help of family or friends, and borrowed mortgages to manage and finance apartment purchases. Of course, the loans of these people grew up like others, and it was not uncommon to see the bets ratios of 1403/4160 percent of the debt apartment if all the loans, the bets of the individual and the borrowing bets were combined. But because of the responsibilities or bets, these members were not relieved, e.g. Through the 110% route, and it was clear that there would be a special way to get their right share if it wasn't the meaning that these people would remain in a baloney over a period of years. After a great deal of time, a contract with the first 2013 pension failed to be completed for elections and for the current state of the world. As a result, a government took over. I asked many questions about this, and we moved about these bills in the first half of the season, but the answers were always hairy and generally referred to as if there were more groups and tenants and other such ones who did not get a first pass at the highest level. Government. This is no time to be kinder if it's the highest. The government will not simply tell us here and to these people who are still hundreds, even thousands, in this position that there will be nothing more to their case. It's getting more honest than having it go down like this. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether this was something on the board of the government, whether or not it's on the news.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u19	A respectable president. Everything's right. A senator says. There were many who remained behind with a very difficult position because of a loan. The group involved did not enjoy it on the basis of a legal office or a court decision in some way that could be eliminated in a similar way that was appropriate in illegal loans or loans that were doomed to invalidity. It is suggested that there was a basis for an agreement with the pension fund. At the time, we made it such that the foundation was really all at the cost of the State. The contribution of the pension fund would be extremely limited compared to the unpublished check that the state was taking under that agreement. It was the year 2013, as referred to, and it had been four years of that terms, and the case had not come in final costume, as it had come to us. We have, that's right, set priorities for other groups. We have put the most emphasis on first dealing with debt problems of overdeveloped households, then the large housing package that ended here in the law on public housing, housing, and other matters that were handled during the spring or earlier this summer. Since then, we have been focusing our attention on those who want to get back into real estate. I have not had a particular opinion of the situation today among those who fall into this class of creditors.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u20	Mr. President. That's disappointing. I think it's the best. Ministers are, in effect, acknowledging that there have been a lot of work to do in the field, and now they are looking at their present status, and over the years they are going to try to buy their first apartment, but this group is still there. It's the fact that he is. I get a message about that on a regular basis. That's right, the pension fund wasn't going to take on a lot of money. There, the dog was buried. It was so difficult to get it together because the pension funds were very large in this situation and simply carried the constitution, they could not yield to taxable assets where there was a full pledge. As a result, they concluded that they were only taking the cost of the 1,21.75%, and the government was going to grow. Still, the total number of billions of dollars would have to be put out by the State. The banks had made quite a difference in the groups with them, especially if both sides, loans, and borrowers were in business at the same bank. [[The president calls.]] After that, most of their pensions and loans remained. Some of these agents are expected to have received some transfers in the large package, so the problem should have been reduced. [[The president calls.]] There must be a way of opening up the fact that this group will finally pass their data, and it will be determined whether it is not possible to meet them in some way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u21	Mr. President. Let me just say about this case that now that about eight years have passed since the fall of financial companies and the state by which they created me, I certainly do not object to reviewing their status on this definition. But I'm afraid that the complexity has gone immensely because of things that have disappeared because of measures taken in the meantime. I think it has to be recognized that the two governments that have served this time have made their priorities different from those of this group. According to one estimate, there are some 21st billion people who are trying to deal with this problem. I don't know if that would work. As far as I can remember, we were watching that the numbers could be considerably higher. But there are more than half of the human subjects involved in doing for older citizens and disability with new laws and calls for them. [[The president calls.]] These are big numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u22	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize a community to the public goods of 1323 Congress, issue 779. The bill is suggested to provide a total Community law for the greater good. It is suggested that a Community to the greater good be separated from other members of the community, that there will be rules for the establishment of a social organization for the greater good, and that their main members will decide for socialisation, decision-making, and management of such organizations. This bill, however, has a few prehistoric features and is formed at the time of the initiative by the public community itself. Work on the bill is rooted in the initiative, as well as preparatory work done by the Department of Social Services. The group that started this work produced a report to the then minister in November 2010. That work was then continued at the current Economic and Business Ministry, and later at the Department of Employment and New Orders, appointing the then-communicator for the Commission to prepare legislation on the Free Society for the greater good. In the Committee, Ragna, the then president of the Allied People, had no appointment, Mr. Hrafn Bragason, former Supreme Court judge, nominated by the Board of Education on the Third Department, and Helga Helgadóttir, an expert in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, nominated by the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs. The Commission's commission tells us that by free partners and nonprofit organizations that work for the public good, they refer to a free organization that has the goal of working toward a complete number of people without the profits of those who run and conduct a partner. It also refers to self-employing institutions, which have the same objectives as those that meet the requirements for the laws for auto-employers. The committee was designed primarily to discuss the conditions that such communities must meet in order to enjoy rights and to carry duties according to the law. The Committee was specifically assigned to discuss the tax environment of public health organizations, including for the breakdown of tax taxes from prisoners, genetic taxes and the tax from donated funds. At that time, the Committee was also designed to consider legislation on a public - health organization in neighboring countries of Iceland, such as the topic. Is the bill, as mentioned earlier, based on the work of this committee. Free society activity, i.e. The so - called third sector is important, especially the activity of the free society that can be considered to be a public society. By specifying such organizations specifically in the law and setting total laws on them, they will provide more solid support for their activities. It is a wide range of communities and diverse activities, small and large, so this project has taken a considerable amount of time to bring it into this picture. The rules on accounting, annual accounts and review or review of annual accounts may be of particular interest to the government agreement with the organisation. While specific requirements could be set for such a contract without specific legislation, legislation is more solid and can help members of the organization, which is built on the basis of volunteer work, to understand and to run the work better. Examples are for the sentence of such detailed rules, e.g. the law on auto-employment institutions. In addition, there are total laws, including information about partnerships and private partnerships. The sentence of a non-human public health organization aims to identify its members or stakeholders with all the main rules of operation, not only definitions and financial rules, but also other social rules. This can help to function as a public health organization and contribute to it. that this organization will be more successful and this important organization can become more stable by its taste. There was no need to go so far as to make a special bill about free societies or members of the community in general. The overall legislation on the public goods organization is aimed at in addition to some of the principles that apply to such an organization and may include find in firm laws, corporate records, and other laws, such as tax laws. In the North, social and social legislation has been established only in Finland and has the bill not aimed at establishing rules for all free societies but only for the defined public welfare organization. The registration of public good organizations is a prerequisite for the legislatator to accept special tax appeals for them. The bill is intended to apply to enterprises established by their approved bodies or operate in accordance with their approved agreements to promote specific, specific, social and social issues but is not established for the benefit of members. This refers to so - called ideal organizations established for human development or for something that focus on certain individuals who meet specific requirements or issues that are more closely defined in the approved society. The subject must be considered to some national fancies, such as sports and manpower, sponsorship, patients, rescues and helpers, consumers and cultures. This would be the choice of a partner if a number of participants were to be chosen. Other forms of partnerships can be more desirable if, at times, they are to be guided for the benefit of a particular subject, as shown by financial and organizational records in accordance with the law of No. 19/1988 and non-employment agencies by law No. 33/1999. The bill contains provisions for the establishment and content of a approved P.R. society as well as for socializing. Special regulations are given to members of a partner, registration of membership as well as entry, deportation and separation from a partner. The decision-making programme is discussed with specific requirements for decision-making, decision-making and elected representatives, union votes, meetings, council meetings, conferences, or decision-making techniques. Then there are special decisions on what to make at the main meeting, the main meeting, the audience's voting rights, the decision of society, elections, conferences, invalids, and bad decisions and executions. The bill contains rules for social management and special requirements for social management, writing firms and inability. The bill of the bill on annual accounts and reviews or reviews of them allows for a review of the annual accounts of the laws of the books and, if applicable, the selection of a accountant, an observer or a member of the department should be made to revise or review the annual accounts of the Society at the main meeting or council meeting. The bill contains provisions for the loss of a social group, the breaking of a court society, the registration of a public social union file proposed to maintain an enterprise record, the authority to change the registration of partners that have already been registered in a Community group to the public goods and embargos. The bills were presented to the Allied public and its members members as well as to the third sector, the Ministry of Health and the GSK Corporation. The committee was also contacted by a representative of the State Reexamination and the head of the tax. Then the bill was also put on the Ministry's Web, the Ministry of Employment and Development, for introductions and for comments. There's been a six-story review. Changes in the bill series were made taking into account some comments received by the Ministry. The Committee originally proposed that the public members should meet conditions for granting the administration agreements and public approval of public welfare partners that they met the requirements of the law. As a result of the comments received by the Committee, including From the Ministry of Health, the burden of the bill for the smaller group of members, had fallen from the concept, and suggested that public members could make conditions for granting support, management contracts, and public contracts allowing them to cooperate that they met the requirements of the law. The Ministry's review pointed out that the bill was too burdensome for a smaller group of members and that it would be canceled for public members in general that the conditions for granting support support that society meets the requirements of the law. For a long time, the bill has been in preparation and has done well and has tried to make sure that it has done the most extensive consultation with the professionals. I remind you that the bill is rooted in the initiatives of these partners and these organizations, and we have worked closely with them in order to achieve the most comprehensive reconciliation on the subject of the bill. Is it clear, after all, that on a particular point of the bill, there are differing opinions, although it is quite clear that both the Organization itself, the World's Good, and the vast majority of their partners are very much in favour with the bill and its contribution. I think it's important that this case is discussed by the General, called for these different viewpoints, and handled well by the committee, which I encourage to give careful consideration to this matter, and finally decide whether there are any adjustments to it. If the bill remains unchanged, it is assumed that the income and expenditure of the state's budget will increase by 31⁄2-20 million. K. This has not been expected in the budget of the current budget. But there is a need to find the cost in the framework of the financial and economic classes established in a five-year financial program, as well as in financial law. However, the effects on Kingdom funds remain unchanged. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u23	A respectable president. We're just 1st. So I'm not gonna be negative, but I have to admit that when I read this case, I started to wonder why it was exactly, where it came from. It struck me quickly, as one artist called Scandinavian organized freedom, i.e. When things other than that are free are put in a box to somehow treat and treat them. The only purpose I really see, and maybe the highest. A minister explained something to me in that regard, is that things like tax appeals can be done or that these laws can be set as some kind of requirement for something established by other societies. I wondered: What problem is being solved? There have been some specific problems where people have thought: Ah, now it would be good to have these songs or such laws to deal with that problem. I understand that this is something that can be desired in order to enforce some ideas they have. Personally, that's what I generally think, and it doesn't seem that there's a good reason for legislation. And now I must be done with my time. I'll stop here and take up my second question in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I understand the questions as well. A senator makes an offer because I have asked them myself. As I say and in my historical history, this takes root back to 2010, where the initiatives of this organization were requested to be taken into consideration with the objective of explaining regulations and laws for this organization, which play an important role in our community and is formed, not for profit, but for various good works and important work done in society. This is from being a small financial support organization on outstanding issues in Landsbourg. Thus, there are many and varied interests. What is involved is perhaps, first of all, that it is called according to law, that they are better employed within a law frame that suits them, also on the basis of the means that they are funded with funds, how to handle tax appeals, and the deduction that the Minister of finance has proposed, and was approved at the last assembly, to remind me, how to handle it, and what demands must be made to give information to these associates, on the activities of their peers, etc. It is in a sense that they are trying to adapt their plans to the work so that these members can concentrate on the important ideals they are doing every day and that the form of society is more suitable for their work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u25	A respectable president. I think I understand the highest. Minister and good answer. Yet, one thing I have to say after reading the bill: I still don't quite understand definitions. It is often in the modern fashion to have a definition of capital and law that I find very convenient to determine the meaning of certain words. But my understanding of this is that the whole law defines the concept. This type of society refers to a society that meets this legal requirement. I did not, however, come across an accurate definition. So I would like to ask you if, for example. Religion or organizations related to, religious or biological organizations, or organizations that operate in that spirit, fall under the definition. I especially ask because I always find it a little strange, I take an example from the United States, where, if not everything, religious organizations are tax free, and I always wonder what the role of the State is in identifying what is in an intentional way when it comes to the activities of such communities. I take as an example if you were going to create a society that was new and strange and maybe not something used to the authorities, let's say a society that acts in an orderly manner against the influence of Arab religions in society, something that I think must happen, but will inevitably predict government predictions, not be used to such activity. Such a society would certainly say that working for the public good is not a business. Then I wondered, " Is it reasonable for the State to be making some background on such organizations to determine what is incarnation and what is not? ' I thought about the highest opinions. Minister in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u26	A respectable president. The bill contains a report on page 17. It's a review of 1st. is specified by the members of the organization or by the organisations of the bill. It says, by permission of the president: This refers to so - called ideal organizations established for man - made or fortification in some area and focuses on certain individuals who meet specific requirements, or issues that are further defined in the approved society. The subject must be considered to some national fancies, such as sports and human culture, patients' sponsors, rescues and helpers, consumers and cultures. This would be the choice of a partner if a number of participants were to be chosen. Other forms may be desirable if the funds are immediately available, etc. This is not appropriate for forming a pension fund or a political party or something like that. With regard to religion, I must admit that I do not know the answer, whether it has been specifically discussed, so it is directed to the Committee to examine it and take a stand on it. These are the first and last members of the international community that are working on national agreements. The reason why this matter has taken a long time is that there are just some questions that humans have different opinions and opinions. That is why I considered it right, also to complete this work that began almost six years ago, to allow the General to discuss it, to call for these different viewpoints, and then, depending on the cases, as presented here or after the work of the Committee. So I encourage the committee to consider these points carefully. A senator mentions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u27	Mr. President. I come here primarily to celebrate the fact that this bill is passed after a while of pregnancy, which in itself is completely understandable and clear. As already noted in the exchange of words, these issues in themselves are not a simple subject. I don't even think about saying that. It doesn't change the fact that I think there is a great need to explain the legal environment in this regard. I think that the path this is setting up is basically the right one, i.e. To create guidelines and a clear basis for this kind of organization that work in the interests of the public goods, they do not operate for good purposes, for example, are not auto-replacers or such. This is because during the past few years, questions have been asked about the precise status of such a person or that he should have. This may come into play in various contexts. This is, for example, what certainly has been one driving force for such an organization to have pressured their position to be clear, i.e. that the fine work they are working to justify, for example, the paying of taxes. However, there must also be some definition, and some limitation, in order to enjoy them, or indiscriminately, and who is not. Let us not forget that as soon as the step is taken to set a legal code for the public good of society and determine the conditions they must meet in order to qualify for such registration, those who do not. It is also good to be able to have some warnings about the others and these to try to decorate themselves with titles that do not necessarily involve themselves, and now do not need to fantasize, a problem that has been encountered in some other areas in which people develop all kinds of alleged goodies, called on the surface, and even use them to avoid tax pay or to engage in various forms of practice. Of course, we do not want such physical and important public - welfare organizations and communities to be affected in any way. So it's good to explain the position of such a person. This effort is well worth it. Of course, there are conflicting issues in this regard, and all I can think about is acknowledging them. But here we are. Here it is, in my opinion, a fairly well-proved layer or bill for legal purposes. For a great deal of consultation and a great deal of work to do, which will then come to the council and be expected to continue with the next assembly. A well-being involved, of course, is that the case will go to a committee and be sent out for review. It's a case with a lot of people, and it's not just with communities and those who work within such organizations, it's an amazing number of people who interact with such parties. Governments and societies, of course, but individuals and all sorts of people are in great contact with an organization that would agree with this. Here, more than once called Landsbourg, which is understandable, may now be one of the most important and most precious public welfare organizations we have. No one now doubts or dares object that there is a work that is an enormous part of our being reasonably safe in this country. But they are a number of organizations close to what might well fall into it. Because these committees were named here - otherwise I'm not going to begin to comment specifically on matters of opinion, that is, the highest. Minister - I'm not worried about that, Mr. President. Fortunately, I think, we've got to get someplace else to live, i.e. There are certain conditions that must be met so that communities can be accepted as registered religions. There's something about it somewhere else in the library. And those who expect to receive the benefits of their peers'parishes must apply quite strict rules in this regard. I don't think there's any reason to be afraid that it will be mixed together, but I think it would be in other psalms and any cause for dissatisfaction. I welcome this step, and I look forward to an optimistic conclusion that, in one or two more storms, it is now possible to complete this assignment. I'm convinced that it's good if we succeed in putting a reasonable law frame about this and developing a list of such societies to explain their status and to separate them from other things that are not to be carried under the same hat.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u28	A respectable president. I'm going to use this brief speech to celebrate the arrival of this bill. That's what I think was worth far more than men want to be. There's a lot of business in the country that's on the side of the public welfare team, e.g. A lot of medical institutions. I think, for example. that the counter-reaching institution, which has reached its age, the nursing home suspected a job on that basis, as well as on the U.S.A., is a society of amateurs for drinking problems, who run a hospital station called Vogur. And there are other companies who have jobs in their hands. If there is some fear that this is a religion, an organization of religion, it may not be the case, but it is, in all cases, creating some minimal social rule in such organizations. It is not oppression of one person or anyone. In recent years, I've only been close to the World Health Organization. It has been a real challenge for the organization to get this legal ground. In some ways, this refers to the general framework of society. So in this brief talk, I say, "Thank you very much. ' Industrial and commercial ministers for bringing the matter into this area, which is expected to go to the committee and review in the same way as it has not already been discussed by various economists. I'm not going to keep my case further until now, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u29	A respectable president. I'm not going to be against this case at this time. I have no specific reason for that in itself. But I feel that it gives me reason to discuss just societies and their role in society, social freedom, and all that. I realize completely that this is not a place to tie hands like nothing. This is a law in which a specific legal environment is established by society's own will, likely for some sort of clock that would allow them to obtain either tax appeals or other favors from other communities or institutions, or whatever kind of it may be. It's the same with e.g. education. It may be possible for anyone to go and teach some other language, but the person may need a witness if a customer is to receive his or her teaching over from a trade union or something similar. Of course, there is a wise step. However, I feel that it is worth the fact that in this case, when the Council takes action to create and create some frame and puts some phenomenon, such as a boxed club, a public community, to mention that the State is extremely ill prepared to determine what constitutes a normal partner or what is desirable social work. Therefore, when setting such a frame that can be good and beneficial, we need to keep in mind that we do not know what future partner plans will be or on what grounds societies will choose to operate. I mentioned earlier in answer to the highest. Minister, e.g. Religions or biological institutions or similar societies. Now we all know what religious and biological organizations are, and they've been defined, but I specifically mentioned one type of religion or a life society that could arise and would definitely consider themselves to be public, e.g. A society that was going to try to counteract the influence of Arab religions in the community, a negative influence that I shall claim to be there, and will continue to exist because there are no free groups who have decided that Arab religions are in the community and that they need to be opposed in word. Then I wondered what the State would think of it. What would the authorities say? A better question is: Why should you not care exactly what authorities think of it? It is not the authority's job to decide which social activities are more important than others. But we do. Of course, it's society's decision on the whole, and I could give a long and learned talk about democracy and the role of the individual and the public in that equation, but I'm gonna let it go. I just want to draw attention to that on page. 17 of the report, like the highest grade. A minister earlier told me that there are certain cases of societies that would be defined as the public community by the bill. However, these are just examples, not an exhaustive definition or an exhaustive definition of the term. And I think it would be a good thing if the committee came up with a clear definition, such as is commonly used in larger legal columns today, that is the tradition that I like very well and well, and we should try to behave when we can, especially when we discuss terms that might work in the first place. At any rate, I have to say to myself that the concept of a public good society operates on me as very vague. It could be a sports club, it could also be a religion. The Catholic Church could call itself a public gospel, but it would probably not fall under the definition of these laws, and with that fact I believe I have proved the point. Enough about that. I'm not going to extend this discussion, just to point out that it is good for us as politicians to recognize our limitations in determining how our community should function, how our society should act, and what social freedom is. I reiterate that I am totally aware that this is not a violation of the freedom of society in any way, and it is not to force any person to do anything against his will, but here we are framed things in, and when we do, we must respect our own mismanagement to understand society and the basis for future partnership work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u30	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to change the social law, private partnership law and the law on auto-employment institutions, simple housing conditions, of course. 1092, case No. 664. This is a main policy to discuss streamlining projects in the direction of the Government's policy on simplifying sectoral activities, improving efficiency, reducing writing and streamlining communication with public authorities as the cost is held down. The Ministry has been working in cooperation with the head of the company to review your social legislation in order to simplify the work of the economy, but the suggestions in this bill depend on the simple rule of your partner and private partner. This is not a significant change in this context, but it is symbolic and describes the will of the government in these matters. The bill also responds to comments from the EFTA Monitoring Centre on Farming and Residents, Directors, Directorates and branch managers of a partner, private partner and pro-employees. The bill then suggests minor changes in the social and private law that help prevent social security. As mentioned earlier, the changes suggested in the bill are three. First of all, changes are provided to simplify the legal environment of your partner and private partner. In the current law, it is conditioned that most of the stockholders of a community should have domesticity in this country or half the stockholders are equal. The setting does not apply to the citizens of the EEA, the Member States of the EFTA stock agreement and the deliveries provided in the above states. Other than the above, ministers need chiefs. Such provisions are generally granted, but in addition foreign individuals and legislators, regardless of their estate or household accounts, can buy items from former members of the community. It is also suggested that members of the Community and Pension Funds could establish a central and private partner society without the need for the rights of Ministers. It is generally requested, but the above may also be purchased by partners who have already been formed. It is also suggested that the continuation of a partner file be received in several cases extended from two weeks to four weeks. This is how the deadline is moved in accordance with the general time deadline for registration and notification, but the rules for registration are found in the section of the law on both partner enterprises and the privacy laws. The proposal for a change in the terms of reporting on the establishment of the foreign branch and private components is made and the data to follow such an announcement. It is then proposed that there should be a change due to the preparation of electronic corporate files, but the change includes that a partial partner file can determine the form of notifications and documents, but that the decision should be confirmed by a minister as well as that the trial procedure should be electronic. An electronic company registry is expected to be implemented in 2016 and will allow individuals and legislators to register an electronic partner and private partner. In 2014, a bill was submitted to the legislation on the change in social law and the law on private stocks, bridges. Law No. 132/2014, due to the preparation of electronic corporate files, the adjustment proposed is part of the preparation. Second, the bill presents changes to the conditions of the management board, the manager and branch office manager of the partner, private partner and auto-involved organisations so that the farm conditions are not valid for EEA citizens, the Member States of the EFTA stock agreement and the Faeroe Islands no matter where they live in the world, as well as for individuals living in the above countries. The change responds to EFTA comments on the conditions for the residence and household of founders, managers, managers and branch managers of the partner, private partner and private employment institutions not consistent with the EEA contract. Third, minor changes in the social and private laws are proposed as part of a role in preventing job social security. It is important to be moderate in looking for ways to improve and to consider the actions under attack. These changes must not be too burdensome for the job or to stop the pioneers and innovations from working. In spring, the council approved a change in annual accounts, which included: it is aimed at ensuring that parts and private partnerships will provide annual accounts for official publication. This law is aimed at supporting the challenge of social security, as it is assumed that, at any given time, there will now be better information on a business venture. The proposed changes, as well as the changes made in the annual accounts laws, are a step in preventing social security and to better identify the extent of the problem. These changes are: First, it is suggested that stock money can no longer be paid to an institution of social and private components with a requirement for the founding of the society. Even though this is not a common practice, it is proper to suggest a controversial change, including the following: as part of making sure that parts of the money and valuables truly come into a community with its institution. It is suggested that the loss of the head of a part of society or of a private community should fit in the management board and the manager appropriate for the performance of their work should they inform a partner list there. In the implementation of a partner registry, directors and executives have lost their privileges in the administration or to perform the Commission's work, and the change is made in accordance with the implementation. Third, it is suggested that the registration of the directors and the executives remain unchanged in a partner registry after a regional judge has decided that the population will be replaced. If this bill is legal, Mr. President, it will simplify certain aspects of the institution, operations and registration of partner and private partner. The changes affect the communication between the employment and innovation agencies and the corporate records, with the founders and heads of such organizations, but it is not expected to affect the government of the Ministry and the Agency or to be involved in any kind of operation. In the case of an electronic company registry, changes are not expected to require any specific induction or preparation from the Ministry or company file outside the work that has been going on since 2013 in preparing such files. If the bill remains unchanged, the law is not expected to influence the survival of a government fund. Mr. President. I believe here is an important bill here aimed at simplifying the legal environment of the partner and private partner and meeting the comments of the EFTA account of the former centres and households of the founders, managers, managers and branch managers of the partner, private partners and auto-replacers. At the same time, the bill aims to make minor changes in the social and private law that contributes to the prevention of the social damage of social security. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u31	A respectable president. I am very interested in partner law, and I appreciate the restoration of business laws and each time the partner form is made more accessible to those who want to become business partners. But there's one thing that's been bothering me pretty much. It is the bioavailability of shareholders in share-in companies. It's very limited, except through control. There is now a bill to correct the change in parting laws, a Senate bill, where the person standing here is an artist. First of all, I'm going to ask if the Ministry had any consideration for this bill and if it's the highest level. A minister may object, though, to some extent, to a financial and business committee, which may make the adjustment if possible. A respectable president. I'm not gonna extend my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u32	A respectable president. I'm aware of that hobby. A senator, i.e. As he noted, social laws are of interest. Well, I do and I do. A senator has had several conversations about this subject. Therefore, I am not surprised to find out that this council member is here looking for it and asking if the minister is pleased to accept the committee's case in connection with changing these same laws, i.e. the matter as a matter of course. A senator set out in the fall, and we've talked, and he's studied with me. Therefore, it is easy to answer: I make no comments and encourage the committee to consider this matter in the case of the committee. Nor will I make comments if the committee finds out that there is a decision to make on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u33	A respectable president. I would like to recommend an interpretation of the energy switch action programme, on the same basis. 1405, case No. 802. Iceland has in recent decades achieved significant results in energy exchange using renewable energy sources for heat and electricity in the country that are using almost exclusively renewable energy contained in geothermal energy, fallwater, and wind. During the past few years, although there is still a long way to achieve full energy exchange, important steps have also been taken. Government action has played a major role in the energy exchange of land transports that have taken place in the past few years. The success is seen in increasing renewable fuels from 0.2% of renewable energy sources to about 6% in five years. Both of these are biofuels, which are now being used to increase, as well as the growth of electrical vehicles. In other areas of energy exchange, we are still starting out, such as in ocean - related and air - related activities, whether in transport or transport. It is therefore important to expand energy exchange policies and measures so that they take to every target that is still more or less dependent on fossil fuels. The Declaration of the Environment and Independence Party of 22 May 2013 stresses further use of ecological energy and encourages a reduction in fossil fuels use. Similarly, the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is discussed. There are many compelling reasons for energy exchange. The main environmental reasons have been identified, i.e. reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as well as other fossil fuels-related pollution. More evidence is equally important, such as energy security, currency savings, innovation, and evolution. Industry fossil fuels depend on fluctuations in supply and oil prices. Thus, increasing energy security on its own is sufficient to calm down all years in reducing fossil fuels use. The benefits also come from building a new industry, a domestic environmental fuel industry, resulting in a growing number of jobs, with the expected multiple effects. A recent government climatic programme presented at the end of November of the last year is defined as being directly related to energy exchange, on the part of a re-employment plan for the next year due to national energy exchange, air and uterus as well as to the growth of national electrical infrastructure. In the parish program, the following is stated, by permission of the president: •Environment of transport: The next year's operation plan for energy exchange, both land and sea, will be submitted to the Council as a proposal for Congress resolution at the 2016 spring Summit. The plan is being carried out by the Department of Employment and Development and Green Energy, which is a cooperative set of energy exchanges aimed at increasing the contribution of bioefficient domestic energy at the expense of imported carbon fuels. The Icelandic government has set the goal that by 2020 the share of renewable energy in transport will be 10% and will be a work on the basis of a future Senate resolution aim to reach that target. Thus, energy exchange is one of the government's priorities, including increased energy security, currency savings, innovation, and the deceptive development of new industrial plants in addition to environmental benefits. In the above application schedule, industrial and commercial ministers are committed to making a proposal for interpretation where the aim of the management and management programme for energy exchange is established. That's my recommendation. This proposal for action was made in cooperation with the Green Energy, a cooperation site on energy exchange, as well as in consultation with a number of stakeholders. Green energy is a government site of cooperation as well as companies from the commercial world that are linked to energy exchange. There's a lot of agents there for four hearings, i.e. Department of Employment and Development, Environment and Resources, Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and Internal Affairs. The Parliamentary decrees for energy change are set forward until 2030. The target is 30% of the renewable energy share in land transport and 10% of the share in forced activities. Targets take into account the fuel forecasting of the energy forecaster Committee of the Power Institute and the government's ability to promote economic energy exchanges. The synopsis proposal puts increased emphasis on infrastructure structure, and it has been shown that infrastructure has to be in place to meet the growing number of tools that use new energy sources. The synopsis proposals for new energy exchanges so far have not been in the foreground, i.e. on the ocean and on the fly, as well as on the move for transport to the country. Energy exchange, although fossil fuels are still dominant, is a success in transport. Things happen fast at that point. I personally believe that we should even consider setting higher goals and look, for example, to Norway. However, other areas, inefficient and air - related activities, are much shorter in terms of energy exchange. Thus, action in the Parliamentary decrees now focus on new areas, and experience in the development of national energy exchanges will be useful there. Thus, in the Parliament's resolution proposal, a targeted energy exchange strategy will be submitted to the next year. The plan is expected to be reviewed every five years and updated as necessary at any given time. The proposal suggests a 25-point action programme that should contribute to achieving the above targets. The actions are divided into three main categories, economic motivations, infrastructure and policy measures, regulations and research. The measures then take place on land, sea, and air to transport. The proposal for reimbursement in transport is proposed for the construction and maintenance of transport workers. By and large, cleaning cars, automobiles that release no carbon dioxide, are expected to have tax discounts, and are not to be cut off until a certain number of cars are in circulation, and this is compared to 5,5,12,000 cars. It will be viewed as a possibility that a group van will enjoy the same attraction. It is suggested to enhance the benefit of automobile energy efficiency. It is suggested that 50% of the benets be taken from a carload to an eco-friendly car, which should encourage companies to invest in eco-friendly cars. This suggests that clean - powered cars have a priority at airports and other vital transport routes. The proposal suggests that the government has launched three - year - long efforts to build structures for electric cars of 67 million. K. The annual contributions to be distributed by the Energy Fund. They have already been published by the Ministry and are in line with the above climate application programme that was introduced at the end of the year. It is suggested that ships be reassigned at ports, providing electrical links for long - term airport locations, and aircraft land management. There are several other factors specified in the Parliament and cannot be listed in an exhaustive way here, but all are aimed at the same target of national energy exchange, air and uterus. A respectable president. It is my hope that the suggestions in which this proposal is made for Congress will contribute to continuing vigorous energy exchange activities, thus agreeing with the ambitious goals established by the Icelandic government in recent years. Here a change of attitude is needed. This may well be compared to what happened back then when the decision, a big decision, was made to heat the land. All of us can imagine what kind of country we are now if there had not been people at the time ready to make those decisions. So here we are setting ambitious goals, I believe that there are goals we should set and work that allow our children and grandchildren to look back and say that they were people who were willing to set long - term goals, and hopefully they will be as effective as the heating system was in their time. After the discussion, Mr. President, I suggest that the case be referred to. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u34	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for filing this case, and can go to the highest level. Minister is confident that if I go to this hall when it's done, it'll vote with the case; for it's very necessary, as if I'm going to come in shortly afterwards. I notice that the joints A.2, A.3, A.4, and, in general, when this is the case, there is usually, if not always, some kind of roof on e.g. reimbursement of a reimbursement tax or such about a corpse. I wondered, " Is there any reason why I have such roofs over my head? ' I'd like to know if there's any evidence I don't see here and now that I don't take away those roofs, but I'm absolutely assuming there's some evidence. I'd like to hear them or maybe not enjoy them, but it's important that they come out. In fact, I'm thinking that this problem is already out of control and that we're going to get pretty bad at climate change in the future. That's why I think there's every reason to resign to the extent possible. Part of the problem is already there and is inevitable, but if we see somewhere we can do more than that, we should do it. I make this question count on the basis of these limitations and whether there is a basis for more relaxation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u35	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the Declaration of Support on this matter. It's good to have a hawk in the corner when it comes to putting things down at the council. As for the senator's inquiry, the argument is probably the first and last competitive argument. It is taking a firm stand with one type of vehicle or a vehicle against another. But I can tell you right here and say as far as I think I'm concerned about this because if we're going to get these goals, if we hurt something by it, it's really an obstacle because these cars are still more expensive than ordinary gasoline and diesel cars or the vehicles that use fossil fuel. It is called on by the secretary of finance, which has all the payments for cars, fuel, and the financing of road cars for the overall analysis. I expect this to be taken until treatment. I referred to my frontnote address as an example in Norway. It is taking very decisive steps to speed up the development we want to see with this policy, to speed up electricity cars, and that development. It simply forbids automobiles that continue to be driven by fossil fuels after a certain period of time. Norwegians have set very ambitious goals, and some years ago they have set the goal here, that the coincidences we are always taking care of each year on income-employing bills are put in place for long periods of time so that the market knows what it's doing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u36	A respectable president. I thank you for the answer, and I especially welcome the highest attitude. Minister that there may be room to go further. I understand the logic, and I think it's challenging, but like many others, I think that from what has come, we have to go further. To a certain extent, I feel that the competitiveness of the environment must be replaced only by the needs of our animal species, and yet more are sought in the animal realm to cope with the problems of climate change. Then I also wondered if there are any ways to meet the competitive conditions so that those who rely on these conventional sources of energy call them, for now, oil, gas, and coal, and gods can know what, would be easier by moving into the environmental industry. I wondered, " Could I possibly be able to meet that challenge? ' Of course, the goal is not to destroy anything, but to save, only society saves everything that can be saved by climate change, which, in my opinion, is inevitable at this stage. I have another question that might be going to the highest. Environment Minister, but I would still like to ask the highest. Minister: Have any response plans been made to speak? In my opinion, as I have gone over a few times, a lot of damage is already done and all I can see is that the climate on earth is already at the point where it will continue to change even if we are about to stop using all the oil today. It means that, in my opinion, we too need to be prepared for the changes that will come. I wondered where we are in that politics. Although this case is here and it's great, it would have been better if it had happened 20, 30 years ago. That's why I don't think it's ever too early to start talking about our reaction to predictable disasters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u37	A respectable president. What's the second question? The senator will discuss this with me when I agree with him that it may be more direct to the highest level. Environment Minister. I don't know about any of those reflexes. However, I would like to return to the strategy adopted by the Environment Minister for the Paris Conference in December and Business Minister as responsible for a certain part of it was entrusted with two projects, this is part of it. There may have been a plan like this, but I point the question to the highest level. Environment Minister. How to meet those who move in or sell other vehicles; I think that's exactly what we need to do. I also think we're on our way to that change. What we're saying here, and I made it less clear that we have to do it faster and faster, and we have to make decisions like those taken, and I referred to them 50 years ago when the thermal industrialisation was in progress. A financial minister is having this whole system examined because it is also the balance level that needs to be followed. The rich earns large amounts of oil charge, fuel fees, taxation that goes to road repairs, and so on. If we take an entire currency out of it, something has to change in the whole plan, so I'm just going to go for a bit. It would be easy for us to look at all of this so that we can have ambitious goals, but that the State is not intervening and selecting someone else who is supposed to be the winner. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u38	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for representing this case. I haven't read it from cover to cover, but I really like it and say, as we've been here, that it's time. We should not forget, though, that this action has been taken by being involved in what we now call car clean energy. I was writing about this precisely in a committee study of financial planning. I spent a considerable amount of time trying to find out if I should use a new energy truck, an ecosystem car, or what words I should use, ended up with ◯ automobiles that use renewable energy. I thought it would be good if we could get just one word we could use on this. Maybe it's here, a clean energy truck. What really matters is that it is an incentive. We used to be, for example. discussing in the council that today is, in fact, an incentive for the use of biohazard waste from shops and wastes. It's cheaper than taking the organic wastes to a farm station and getting some molt. It just doesn't make any sense. The coincidences are very important. I think the proportion of car clean energy trucks is 1%, no more than that, and that's so incredibly small. The minister may have better information, I was trying to find out more about this. We need to make a big contribution before we start taking some currency, but I understand what the Minister's doing with it. Of course we'll get taxes through the oil charge and the gas charge. I want to reiterate it, and I think a minister will agree with me that I think you can be a little more exhilarating in creating a positive impulse so that the environmental advantage is always cheaper. The question is, will this go far enough? Today, life is more expensive than oil. In other words, it's more expensive for e.g. ships that want to use environmental fuels It's cheaper for them to buy only oil today. I feel that we need to speed it up and be a little bit energized by cutting incentives that benefit the environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u39	A respectable president. First of all, the question about how large the number of pure energy cars is from a national vehicle - just a little more than that number. A senator mentioned, the ratio is estimated to be about 1.5%. We see that there is much work to do. I don't know how many times I'm asked that, e.g. in the foreign field: you with all your electricity, why don't everybody drive around in Iceland? That's exactly what this trigger is like. A senator brings up, and if you look at this in the big context - and I've listened to the Sigurður Ingi Friðleifsson at the Energy Center in Akureyri, you'll have a number of inspired lectures about this - you'll ask the same question: Why not? We can do this today, we have the energy, and we can see all the savings that would be available to nationalize. It's these times, this gap that needs to get across. Technology is getting much better. We can only see it in electric cars. I find all this to be very important to me, so that those who carry vehicles will also be motivated, that they know he's there. It has been suggested that a normal family has real choices, for even if the cost of an electric vehicle is much smaller, it is a way of getting over to buy a much more expensive car. Eventually, we choose with our feet, so to speak, we buy what we can afford. Thus this motive has been justified. Some people strongly oppose it and want to let the market rule them. But the price difference is still there. That's why I'm totally in favor of the fact that we need to encourage, but there has to be some foreseeability so that either side of this sad situation, they know what they're going through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u40	A respectable president. I'll agree with it with the highest. Minister. I'm glad we're setting up now, and I think there's 301 million, a bit funny, in the construction of battery stations for electric cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u41	67.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u42	At least some money was being put on something that's very good because you don't buy a electric car if your infrastructure is not there to load it and so on the streets. So I think it's all going right. We may be a little behind, but I have faith that now the wheels have begun to roll in this respect. I would have liked to see state agencies and maybe governments take the lead in setting a good example. I've sent a request to the Environment Minister on government policy regarding environmentally friendly automobiles, also to a minister of automobiles. In recent years, ministers have been bought here and could easily have been saved. Well, today's sort of all types of cars are being bought as electric cars, tin cars, or evaluated, so that's not an excuse. I would have liked to see the government's institutions take a good example. They may allow themselves to think about the savings that comes back at fuel costs. I thought the answer was half cold. The cars I know that have been bought lately are just the Country Cruisers and something up the street. I admit I haven't read the card proposal yet, but maybe this is the plan right now some government agency policy, since the state buys a considerable amount of cars, don't talk about it when the local communities come in there. The Kingdom itself can affect how fast it goes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u43	A respectable president. First about the last point, just on page 18. 5 on C.1 for a transport policy for the Council and Substitute. The objective is that 10% of all cars owned by public sources will be eco-friendly for 2020. Then you can always ask yourself: " Is this going far enough? Is this way too far or what? With the infrastructure, it's absolutely necessary. Therefore, the government has decided, and it was part of the climate program, to put 67 million a year into it for three years. We've chosen to go along with advertising these funding, and we've got it in the ministry, as I said before, to call out for the best technology, the best ideas the market has. I think there's a huge opportunity to create something for innovation, and I've seen in my work amazing ideas going all over the place. But it is also true that the state should not be building bases throughout the country rather than building gas stations. Privates must also enter, and then the prerequisite for this to pay for the fact that there is enough mass of cars. I want to see the government of Iceland all over electric cars - I may not be allowed to take sides with one technology, rather than any other, but I think that's a direct issue. It's an idea I've been talking about in various places. I am myself on a fuel truck, a ten - year - old minister, spending a lot of money and polluting a lot. The only requirement I've ever made when discussing it is that my next car becomes an eco-friendly car. I don't even know where I am in line, it's somewhere else, but that's another story. Of course, the State and government agencies should take the lead. It's encouraged here. We're all supposed to take it to ourselves because the drop breaks the stone. [[The president calls.]] But we do not let that be the only thing that happens. We need to get the impulse started and get this thing started. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u44	A respectable president. As I went into the past briefly, I support this matter with my whole mind, and I rejoice that it has come to pass, for it is very important. Actually, the only thing to criticize is the fact that it's not going any further, but of course it's politics that things don't always happen at the speed you would like and even at the speed needed. I'd like to mention just one thing in 1987. At that time, people were deeply worried, and rightly, because the ozone layer was being diluted and there was a hole in the ozone layer or in the South Pole of the planet. This was failed by the international community by banning certain materials. I mention this because when we're going to deal with a major natural disaster or a predictable natural disaster, there is a tendency among some to try to solve things on some market presidents. I mention this to point out that sometimes it can't be done. Sometimes it simply takes a government item to solve such problems, and sometimes it simply has to be banned in order to reach the goal of avoiding the damage to our planet and mankind's existence on it. However, there is one important factor to keep in mind when it comes to banning substances that were listed and are thought to be responsible for the problem of ozone layer. These were material that was not important to society not to agree on banning them. There are other substances that can be used for the same and comparable aspects. There was much agreement, and that is why it was successful. Today, the ozone layer is recuperating and, according to some scientists, will recover by the middle of the century or so, which is certainly a cause for great joy. We made it out there. We did so by government exchange, by means of a clean ban, but under the circumstances, we had a choice, we could use other materials to achieve the goals we had achieved with the materials before they were banned. The problem we face right now is much, much, much deeper and much, much, much more serious. It's that we use more and more energy. Energy as physical phenomena are everywhere. Some say that everything is made of energy. There is evidence to support that conclusion. But how we use this energy has a very serious effect on how the climate on this planet works. As far as I know and as I can see from what I've read, we're already at the point where we're going to have to deal with extreme climate change and, in my opinion, it's time for us to start making some sort of strategy instead of avoiding the problem forever. I don't think we can avoid the problem anymore. I understand that even if we're going to stop using oil all day, in a day, we're not going to get rid of the problem. Climate change will be. This is because if there is one characteristic of human technology development, it is energy use. Every time we come up with a new way of using energy, we use it completely wild and crazy to do all the wonderful things that mankind is capable of doing. Today, much emphasis is placed on saving energy, e.g. with cell phones using less energy, which is naturally ironic in view of evolution. That is a fine price and a fine goal, but I think that it will never solve this problem because we are stuck with it. Even if we stop using energy for a day, even if we turn off all the lights here, turn off the radio, if the audience stops listening, and we go back to a time of energy-free, we will not escape the problem. It won't save us. What will save us? In the long run, plans like this will reduce the disaster that will probably come here and there on earth. Another factor is that we need to focus on technological advances that can help us cope with the problem, technical progress in trying to reduce the problem, and technology to create ways to replace what others do so much in oil and coal and comparable ways to generate energy. That's a long-term goal, but I think that in order to achieve it, they'll also need government assistance. I don't think that problem will be solved entirely for market reasons or for the marketing of itself. It should be noted, however, that this will always be mixed because no kingdom can simply tell people how to behave. No state can decide now if mankind behaves this way or gay, mankind simply does not function that way, and fortunately, even argue, for a strong argument. I would. But we have to do something, we have to gather ourselves, and we must unite with the advice we can do to bring out the good in technology, and bring out the good in the variety, novelty that identifies our fine animal species, with the aim of reaching out for this problem, and at least make the disaster that it produces as everyone, the smallest and most likely to get through this with some lesson behind, some lesson about how we should deal with such problems. When I say technical problems, I say it in a very wide sense. To make batteries that last longer, it is a good price, and better, lighter, and cheaper, and all of that. In fact, it is one of the most important things to do if it is done, simply to be able to use such things as hydropowers rather than oil. The problem with oil is how useful it is. The same is true of personal information, the problem is how useful these things are, how much can be used. That's why we're so into them. In addition, I think that in time, we will have to focus more on technological advances, such as simply changing and controlling the environment. I don't think this year or this terms period, or next or next, it's a continuing project that will only be solved when there's enough pressure on it. As with the ozone layer, pressure arose. It worked because the circumstances allowed it to be. Now pressure is increasing, and it will grow even more. Then it is important that we be ready to respond in every way possible. Then we will not be able to rely solely on roads like those who left 1987 when these materials were simply banned. Similarly, we cannot simply rely on the economy or on the economy in some way to respond to pressure. It'll always be a combination. This will always be part of some overall change of mind, such as the highest. Minister mentioned earlier. We need a change of mind toward the fact that we are all going - all of us as animal species - to survive this crisis, this coming crisis. But we will do so only if we really are going to do so, and then we may even need to go beyond what is comfortable, either for those who hate government transactions or for those who hate business dealings. I didn't mean to have this long talk, a respectable president, but this seminar is not enough to talk about him, and that's not enough in him. Although I'm celebrating this proposal and will support it, I'm stressing that we have to go further, and it's going to cost. This will cost money, it will cost time. This mission will cost us all. The only question is, How are we going to set priorities so that we can get the best out of the bad things that will happen to us? I think I'll call it a warm, respectable president and thank you very much. Ministers again before the proposal, again and again, that we need to go further.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u45	A respectable president. It's not really an answer, a respectable president, and I apologize, it's kind of what we've sometimes called an answer because I'd like to take my heart to the point that was presented in the senator's case in terms of technical advancement and innovation. In my work both as a minister of energy and as a minister of innovation, I see every day how this works out so well together. I had the satisfaction and experience of attending the Department of Energy Ministers at a rate lower in Europe in Luxembourg about a year ago. There were guests at the meeting at Elon Musk, director of Tesla, and Bertrand Piccard, who is the one who has just completed a flight with Solar Impulse, the first solarly powered aircraft ever made. They came up and talked to me and my associate European minister, and they carried a tremendous message, just as it was about thinking big, thinking outside the box. The most memorable phrase Bertrand Piccard said was that it wasn't the candlemaker who invented the light bulb, we'd still be with candles if it were those people who were made responsible for it. You're so right. Just about this plane, he walked between people all over the place trying to get the planemakers, the partners, to help him do it. No one wanted to do it because there were numbers, couldn't be done for such a large machine. Finally, he just started from scratch, threw out the candle, and focused on the light bulb. [[The president calls.]] He said that the amount of energy needed to get this plane, the solar system, is the same as the aircraft used in the rest of the aircraft. Things need to be over-thinked.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u46	A respectable president. I would have liked to hear more of this if I had to say just the way it is, maybe I'd know what it is. The minister spoke more afterward. But the very thing is that we may be inclined to believe that the already existing forces have some advantage in creating new things, which are not necessarily because large institutions or corporations tend to want to be in what they know. Just as we're here at the General Assembly, we want to know how the Senate works, that's why they're always a little conservative, normal, because everyone has to understand how they work. It is the same problem in this case, my opinion, that conglomerates, or even entire industry, want to work in the environment they understand. A new thought often requires that people think things over in a new way. This often involves tensions of some kind. I want to say the bottom line. Minister or at least the tone she struck. There are good things to do, too. It's also so important, and despite a judgment speech I could keep here on climate change, there's still good things going on. We need to know not only how to get caught in the prophecies of doom but also how to view what is positive because if we do not know the difference between us, we can never make the right decisions. But now I think we can do it. We need to be far more perceptive, and especially when it comes to politics, I think we will always have to be better and better prepared to respond to new news because the world is moving faster, not just when it comes to climate change, but when it comes to information technology or technology in general. But politics is always a little slower. I'm afraid there's something we can't respond to. But in other respects, I can agree with it as the ultimate. A minister went in there looking forward to it and would actually want to hear more about it as the highest. A minister was discussing it, and after this meeting he intends to read to me about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u47	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to consider it better with what it is. A senator because I got completely caught up in a hearing. I don't know how many speeches I've mentioned this case because it was just like a light bulb. These individuals reached out to all those who are involved in these issues at the political scene in Europe. I think that's exactly what this change of mind needs to be, we need to hear more of these stories. And that's what I was also referring to back then, how grateful I am in my work to have been with these two sectors in common, both the energy issues and the innovations, because every day you see there are some individuals, members, somewhere out there working on things that will change the world, these things come into a better song. It certainly is. One senator noted that extraordinary good things are happening everywhere. We have much to do with it, Icelanders, and we are always spreading the good news in the big context, in order to form as far as our geothermal temperature is concerned, how much potential there is, the whole world that is not a volcano island but only with low temperature, how much good we can do if we shrink from fossil fuels. The greenhouse effect, the effects on climate, if we are ever more successful, will engulf our house warming and air conditioning, large contaminants around the world, into the costume we have made here. This is where we are doing our part, both in development cooperation and in our foreign politics. [[The president calls.]] How wonderful it is to see our welcome and how we can influence it in the big context! [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u48	A respectable president. I come up here mostly for form's sake, since I'm officially answering an answer. But I think it's nice to put that into the best conversation with the highest. Ministers that we in Iceland can be exemplary, and we are exemplary in many ways and in more ways than these. I think that if we set that goal, we would achieve it in style. I think we'll do it. The question is, will we do so in time? I think that there's a great deal of trouble here in Iceland because we're a small nation, which is usually a challenge but in a certain way it's a good thing because here, changes can happen very quickly, we're making changes very quickly. It's easy to do something for almost everyone. It's easier here than in some 80 million people, e.g. Germany or any such communities. There is good reason to consider what you can do and go beyond that. But I also rejoice that the conversation is not as loud as I would like it to have it then it seems like everyone's harmony when it takes place, everyone wants us to be role models in this, everyone wants to get rid of this problem. It even seems that most people, at least Everyone who has spoken here today wants to go beyond what we're doing. Of course, it says that we may not go as far as we should, but it also tells us that it is an opportunity and a real possibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u49	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the Committee on the Economic and Business Committee's Committee on Security. This is a panorama bill on insurance, and it should be noted that this is not a bill to deal with insurance agreements. The Economic and Business Committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a representative of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, a representative of the Department of Economic Affairs, a representative of Iceland's Legal Association, the National Bank of Iceland, the Neighbours Office, the National Association of Employment and National Trade Council of Iceland. The committee received reviews of the matter from the National Institutes of State, the SEC, Iceland's Legal Association, the Organization for Business Affairs, the Bank of finance, the Iceland's Central Bank, and Iceland's Business Committee. The evidence is presented in this discussion, and I'm going to discuss in general the subject of the bill. The bill is based on Directive 2009/138/EC (Savency II) as well as its changes under Directive 2014/51/ESB (Omnibus II). It is compiled into one of the main health and damage directives. The aim of the Solvency II Directive is to harmonise the legal environment of insurance companies in the European Economic Areas, improve consumer protection and ensure financial stability. The setting of the bill consists mostly of the installation of the directive. The primary objective of the bill is to protect the interest of insurance companies and insurance companies, but it is also aimed at ensuring financial stability in financial markets and fair and stable market conditions by making greater claims for insurance insurance insurance insurance. In order to reduce the possibility that insurance companies will not be able to handle damages or failures, increased management requirements, risk management, and information sources as well as legal requirements are risky. In this case, increasing sources and demand for UNEP are trying to ensure that the risk factors that affect the activities of insurance companies and market stability are monitored. A respectable president. The committee, mentioned earlier, made some comments on the subject, which presents some views that the committee feels are proper. The above article contains reviews of some of the articles. I don't see why they're the source of the reviews. They're all available in the committee's opinion. It's an explanation. It refers to the individual articles of the bill. But I'd like to conclude with the conclusion that two reporters pointed out that regulations 9 and 10. 308 st. That's the arrangement where insurance companies are even... It is allowed to include the two nuclear tax tolerance factors provided that the joint has been released prior to the implementation of new legislation, and there was a sufficient level of access to at least Twenty-five percent minimum tax tolerance per older law. The committee suggests that there will be a temporary improvement in the setting of a sunset. In addition to the above changes and the proposed changes. 1515 suggests a number of suggestions on adjusting language and choice of words or obviously misdirected references. Then adjustments were made to explain a few principles more clearly. No further explanation is needed for this adjustment. It is also suggested that the entry of the entry into force be changed. A respectable president. In this matter, there is a threshing floor. 1515, which is a shift in 38 digits and several letters outside. I believe that by the bill that has been seen here, and the committee has discussed, consumer protection has not been improved. The purpose of your insurance partner is to provide customers with possible damages that may be caused. I think it's done with this bill. The committee, however, agreed on this matter, at least to a reasonable degree. At a meeting of the committee on August 17, 2000. was accepted by this committee, and the following form was written on it. Councilmen names: Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, guide, Brastur Níelsson's son, Sigríður Á. Andersen, Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, Lineka Sævarsdóttir Anna, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, and Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, of advance opinion. In addition, this should be said to be true of the individual. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson was away from the hearing. In view of the above laws proposed for a change, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following changes. A respectable president. I believe this important issue has been well discussed, and I hope it will benefit and benefit the consumers of the country. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-22-137.u50	V.E.G. President. I present the Commission's opinion of the Environment and Transport Committee on bill for wood and timber products, in the absence of the lead producer of the case. The committee has discussed the matter and has received several visitors, and some reports were received. The objective of the bill is to create the necessary refinement so that the Regulation can be implemented and the Council No. 995/2010, about the duties of the operators who launch timbers and timber products by law. The main objective of the Regulation is to prevent trades with timber and timber from wood obtained by an illegal woodcut. An illegal woodcut refers to a woodcut in opposition to existing legislation in the area where it is taking place. The bill puts a surveillance responsibility on the operator and the official organisation in cases where timber or timber is introduced into the European Economic Area through Iceland. At a committee meeting, representatives of the Agency under the bill pointed out that a quarter of the total import of wood and timber comes from outside the European Economic Area. Hence, there would not be an insignificant amount, such as in the bill. The Committee agrees with the opinion of the Agency that increased obligations are necessary to support support and that new projects of the Agency need to be considered on the basis of its budget. The bill does not define specifically what is meant by timber and timber products but refers to the appropriate definition in the above EU Regulation. A committee meeting discussed whether it would be better to define the terms of the law. The Commission points out that the purpose of the bill is to introduce Europe's former design and definition of timber and timber products can take a slight change over the course of time, so changing the definition by any adjustment of the definition may become unnecessaryly heavy. Then the Commission also points out that the scope of the law is limited by reference to European types. So the committee doesn't comment on this point. Other than that, there has been no material evidence against the content of the bill or the regulations it is intended to provide correction. In view of this, the Committee suggests that the bill will remain unconvinced. Hv. paritaprevir Elín Hirst was absent from the case, but he writes under the authority given at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Others snarl. Allied members of this committee are the Chairman of the Committee, Þórhallsson, Hórhallsson. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, who stands here, why. paritaprevir Waits for the Birgir Ármannsson of a year, huh? paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir, and what? paritaprevir Will Árnason.
