ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-128.u1	President. When I signed under the majority opinion of the Economic and Business Committee for the Commission's management of CREEPs that are restricted to specific restrictions, I stressed that there's a phrase that would require some measures to be taken because of the growth trade. Now the bill is in charge of that subject, and then it must probably be elected. It could have come sooner, there could have been more consultation, there could have been all kinds of things, but the case is here now, and we'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-128.u2	Honorable generals. It is spring in the air, and it is finally the end of this spring council. The Council of Justice, on the other hand, will not conclude that. After the election was made clear in the fall, the prime committee of the General Work Programme and the Council's work period were somewhat prolonged during the spring. Then we will meet again for committees and council meetings in August, as we all know. Meetings are 128 and meeting days are 108. At that time, 504 meetings have been held by members of the Synod. Meetings, discussions, and votes have taken 630 hours since the fall of a council. In reviewing the activities of the Council of the Council at the Council of 145th, the preeminent council was quite negligent, and conflict marked the first part of it. During the last few weeks, however, the Senate work has been especially successful. True, discussions have often been quite long, but they have also been perplexing. So, for us who worked healthy, powerful political discussions, it has been a pleasure to observe meetings during the past few weeks and months. Much good work has been done in committees of the council, where many major and complex issues have been treated and resolved. In this winter, a general council has addressed a number of major issues and has led to success. Most of us are likely to be concerned with two of the extenuating legal products, as well as a case that we handled correctly in this meeting earlier. These issues were marked by careful preparation, careful work of the Parliamentary Committee, which involved the work and responsible procedure and cooperation here at the General Assembly, where everyone worked. To that end, members of the Parliament are worthy of great commendation. During this council, many other major issues have been discussed, which have called for hard work. It has often led to counter-regulated changes in committee management. This work is an indication of the strength of the Generals and the fine work being done in committees; a work that does not always highlight in public discussions about the activities of the General Assembly. This sums up the identity of the representative democracy. Many people, public groups, and stakeholders are sought for opinions. Evidence is provided, reasoned, and presented proposals that may be weighed by members of the Parliament and may lead to changes in the forthcoming controversies. At times, such changes can become very important, as the examples prove, from this winter onward. This involves strength, not weakness. The changes that often arise in the treatment of the committees underscore the independence of the Allegorium, its ability and willingness to weigh evidence and counterargument. This fact, however, rhymes with many of the things that are sometimes bombarded with negative remarks about the council and the Senate. It is interesting and necessary to make a decision that the General Assembly will stand out as different from other European Parliaments, in which there are few changes to one of the most important markets, to executives as well as to others, as there is altruism here. This indicates the great cooperation that has now existed in the spring months here at the General Assembly that 35 songs have been passed in total since May 12, 19 today. Since the fall of Congress, 79 cases have been legal, of which 63 are the bill of directors, 14 most committees, or two members of Parliaments. There are 28,7 members of the committee or majority of the Committee and 19 members of the council. These figures highlight the role of members of Congress, i.e. Parliaments, but not governments, have been given, are unusually high. There have been 234 members of Congress, including some members of the committees, concierge proposals, and bills. At the end of the day, 42 members of the Parliament, as well as members of the Parliament, have received a release here at the General Assembly. This is unusual, but in accordance with the clear trend in recent years, Congress has gained added force in the work of the Generals. At the end of this part of the council, I want to thank you. Councilmen for cooperation. I would thank the vice president for his cooperation. Then, in particular, I am deeply grateful to the presidents of both the political parties and the members of the Parliament for their invaluable contributions to direct matters so that we were able to complete our work here for the Council's summer break with full respect for the General Assembly. As always, I thank the Office managers and the members of the Generals for a great deal of help. I wish members of the council, officers of the council, and indeed the people of the country all happy summers. I expect all of us to meet each other safely when the Allied council meets for an extended meeting in mid - August.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-128.u3	Iceland's number tells: That, apart from the approval of the Generals, I am authorized by the Prime Minister to postpone the General Assembly Summit 145th, from 2 June 2016 or later, if necessary, to 15 August 2016. All units, 31st May 2016. Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. The letter of Iceland's President to postpone the meeting of the Generals. By this authority and by references to the approval of the Generals, I declare that the Council is suspended. I want to use this opportunity to thank you. All council members and members of the council for their work in behalf of a nation and wish them and the people of the country a joyous summer.
