ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u1	A respectable president. Of course, there are unusual circumstances at the council, where we are working on these issues on the contrary and trying to come together here. There are suggestions, some of which we candidates highly adhere to, such as for the sake of public health taxes, soda taxes, and also for coming charges. In view of the fact that we're going to try to end these matters together, we will vote against these proposals and direct the work to a government that needs to be handled on matters of travel and income to the state in today's pressure state. I encourage senators to review these matters well in their affairs in all these votes today, since there are unusual circumstances and we are going to try to complete this situation in harmony and harmony and show that the council can complete a task in these unusual circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u2	Mr. President. We left greens here provide some suggestions for the increase in revenues for the state fund we consider to be a servant of threefold objective; first, to ensure the full funding of their budgeting as far as possible. The Senate has been very interested in caring for and increasing the rest of the Kingdom treasure so that it will be done in a responsible way. The suggestions also have practical value in view of the fact that they will no doubt serve the purpose of hitting the pressure that I know to fail. In view of the situation, members of the council must be concerned. But these are also justifications, for they focus on increasing the equation in society, using the tax system in a progressive way. I got it. I got it. Hence, members of Parliament to accept these adjustments. In between, there are also other changes in public health goals, and this is also suggested in the process of coming, which I know many political parties have spoken in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u3	A respectable president. We are gathered here in unprecedented circumstances after some of the most awesome political turmoil we have experienced and the fall of a government and the early election. We're finishing budgets without a clear share in the council, and probably for the first time we're offering suggestions on the budget that all classes contribute to and contribute to a compromise proposal on expenses and income. We, in the bright future, support the work ethic, support the rest of the budget. And in the spirit that the proposals are presented, where no one is satisfied, no one gets his own fees or their dreams in the compromises, we will not support the changes made on the unitormin, despite some practical suggestions there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We've had a positive view of a comeback, but would we like to put it on a 10-day notice without being part of a total travel policy? [[The president calls.]] No, we don't support that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u4	Mr. President. We've worked fully on both budgetary and economic and business committees to achieve minimum health costs, education systems and other infrastructure services. We in the United States believe that it would have been necessary to go much further. We have provided suggestions, both in our policy and in our minority list, on how we think we should do so. However, we feel that in these strange times it is necessary to settle the matter in this way so that we will sit by the smaller section's proposals support more than we are prepared to work on a broadly developed policy, take part, and support all the needed and good suggestions that have so far come from the smaller sections, but they cannot be supported in these situations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u5	A respectable president. These are unprecedented circumstances and have been accomplished, as far as I know, without condemnation in the committees of the council. Hv. A financial committee has reached a conclusion where we greatly increase our expenses and have reached the edge of their expenses. However, this was done to achieve a tripolitic agreement on the progress of the budget. I'm glad to hear that tone with them. Those in charge of government or government officials - there is no more here today - who spoke in that way. I'd also like to say that I don't know if there are any taxes in there or taxes in Iceland that are not to be raised under these suggestions. That may be, but I think that if we really mean that we really want careful management and thinking about longer hours, we don't put huge tax increases in the public and the companies in the country 15 minutes before election without having a very good look at it. [[The point is, what did you say, elections?]] [[Take it up to Christmas.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u6	Question whether or not it's a word. A candidate should have predictions or look back.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u7	A respectable president. As noted above, there was widespread reconciliation with a budget board and, in fact, also in the Economic and Business Committee on the issues presented in general, and suggestions have been made. How important it is when talking about significant tax changes to be discussed in the council, as discussed in committees! But then there are suggestions. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, has suggested that they were not introduced to the committee. This refers to a very large change in the opinion of members of the Parliament, but according to the tactics of this convention, the Council will vote against the proposal. However, it does not comment on the party's position on certain issues. Rather, we here object to such tactics.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u8	President. I call attention to the reason why we do this work in the way that the Pirates and I consider absolutely unannounced - is the case of a total uninformed job involving the overexploitably large aspects of our community - that the board held the council in its hands for so long, far beyond what was agreed upon when the then government decided to vote for election. So I want everyone to be responsible for what the situation is like here on the board where we can't get guests, can't go over it in detail, so we can deal with deep and deep social problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u9	Mr. President. It is true that a financial committee on how to continue working with the financial bill was well established. Nevertheless, we feel that there is good reason to consider the fine changes that had been proposed and to consider their advantages and disadvantages because it may be a little normal for us at the council to accept what is good, to reject what is bad, and to judge well between, but not just to go in some yes-and-nos by some predetermined groups and rules. We're supposed to be doing it a lot better. The work has been planned here for the last few days and weeks. I've never had time to do things properly, I think it sucks, and I hope we can do things a lot better after Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u10	Mr. President. It seems that last night's chairman's meeting was specifically discussed with the fact that there were a free offer to this bill on a number of financial arrangements. I've made the most of my proposal, and I was held at a council for political views, and I guess that's why we're all here. It is only natural that we allow them to be discussed in the Assembly Hall. Mr. President, I'm sorry for all the talk I've got here on business.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u11	Mr. President. There's talk of smaller and more parts here. There is no smaller or more share in the council hall. As a result, this discussion will offer suggestions. This is where we put left greens to raise child repairs. It will reveal the will of Congress on whether child support should be carried out on GDP and not limited to more than 200 of you. K. per month, as they do today, and up 35% instead of 12.5%. I don't think it's too much for a couple of kids in the country to get that raise. Any senator is free to do whatever he wants to do in that regard. Men aren't muleed here, I hope in that matter. I trust people have the courage to vote for what they think, but not after some imaginary excel document that humans have from their bosses in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u12	A respectable president. My attitude and attitude to our candidates are that it is important to revise both the income tax system and the support we provide to the families of this country. Also repeated indications have been observed, including We're reviewing social security, the importance of a full review of support for children's families, so we're looking at how children's pensions are handled through insurance agencies, as well as self-improved. I encourage Congress to do that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u13	Mr. President. As Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir pointed out, raising children is talking about 38% - 35%. [[35%.]] In the context of the section, senators received a raise on Day 47%, something like that. Congress is reluctant to reduce the pay that can be made with the ideals of a prime committee so that we are not beyond the general pay structure in the country, but we are not going to allow child reforms to increase with regard to the price of development. Let's just say what our priorities are.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u14	Mr. President. We offer a comparable increase in growth reforms as well as child reforms because it is not necessarily that the increase in housing prices, which do not directly make provision, would benefit everyone in the provisional arrangements. We now hear repeatedly that young people go to the dean of debt, and that is a concern. However, we have tried to match such a group, but that is clearly not enough. We believe this is an attempt to meet that group. For the reason that this has fallen, I'd like to say that it is a high political element that comes from the government to drop the central phase of income tax. I don't like it, just to be said. I realize a lot of people don't like much of this bill. I mentioned on a budget that my chairman viewed the tape as being excluded, so that it is also said on account of the above statements. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u15	Mr. President. The United States has fought to put this on a wealth tax, the justice of which the broad backwaters in society bear more weight and what they can handle. These suggestions, however, have not been calculated, and they have not been implemented, and they are not necessarily the exact way we would have wanted to do them. They have not been discussed on a committee. Besides, we feel that if everyone had made their most heartfelt wishes, we would not be achieving the contributions that we are now extending to maintain a minimal protection on the community we are insurmounting to. But we must keep on fighting for more money.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u16	Mr. President. This is an effort on the left movement to increase the financial potential of a government fund in a just way that contributes to an increase in tax recovery. In the amendment under consideration here on wealth taxes, there are 1.5% of attributed capitals worth of a person's worth and 2% of wealth tax on the individual property worth of 150-◯200 million. These are possessions beyond those of an individual's own estate, where a person lives. This, in other words, is a tax gain of 1,5◯2% on the most high - income groups in society, but it has been shown that during recent terms tax change increased the tax burden of all groups except the highest income rate of 20 percent, while their tax burden was decreased to a greater extent than that it could be explained by payoffs. [[The president calls.]] So this is a suggestion I am convinced that the high - income groups of the country are willing to contribute to improved health, welfare, and education systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u17	Mr. President. If you're saying that there's no more work in the medical system than you can talk about getting it to zero, that there's at least no surgery on health care during this season, that's what you're working on, then we're gonna have to make some money. I'm going to say, like a dog. A senator who was here last in the public chair mentioned that at the highest paid in society, the taxes declined, and we know that there was no extended resource tax in the beginning of the last term, that there can be no capital tax now to be started in the restoration of the health system immediately? That's what this is about, it can be done, it could be done, we promised to do it. This is a suggestion that it can be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u18	A respectable president. I think these brief comments show how much this matter would need to be discussed if it was to be carried out. It's a property tax. It's not on his income. The last time this tax was passed, it was temporarily taken from the left government. So he came out that the people who paid him the most were older citizens who gave him the talk and went about it. The decision by the Supreme Court was that it was a temporary tax. In countries we would like to compare ourselves with, for example, the obligation not to tax taxes without income, but some had to sell their assets in order to pay the tax. It's hard to reach the richest. They can go abroad, and have indeed done so, to escape the taxes. The point of the matter is that here we have a huge case, a tax from which we have not had good experience. We can't end this case or accept it at this rate. Every man sees it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u19	Mr. President. This proposal comes out of the administrative hearings that were going on here a few weeks ago, between five categories, and it was arranged to try to earn more money to strengthen the health system. This specific change turns toward delaying the deletion of the intermediate tax level and other comparable proposals is expected to delay the decline of the general tax level, both to one year. This is primarily suggested to see, in fact, how interested it was in going that way. I think this is a good thing for the next government, whatever it will be, to start improving the health system, as it is $3.8 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u20	Mr. President. This is another proposal that came up in the above government talks that I would be interested in seeing if it could happen. This is a reduction in reimbursement due to a ◯tax free, for tourists from 15% to 7%. This is to approach the percentage of people in our neighboring countries. By lowering the figure to 7%, about 1 billion dollars are saved. Each year, which could be useful for building up any structure we want to build up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u21	The president would like to state that if you wish to make an account for your vote, you must ask for it immediately. The word cannot be obtained after discussing another member.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u22	Mr. President. I'm sorry my arrival was in a pita. This proposal is to extend the consumption of valuable tax from electrical vehicles and such until 2020, rather than 2017. It simply turns to the possibility that there may be some insight in that import market. These deposits have been extended to one year in recent years, but it would be very good if we were to extend this well, to 2020, to support the energy exchange in the automobile market and simply to set a good example in these activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u23	Mr. President. Icelanders drink 130 liters of soda a year. Icelandic children eat too much of the added sugar according to all its estimates, and according to the studies we know from outside the world, sugar tax is the best way to reduce sugar intake. We are actually watching a time bomb in the health system when it comes to increasing sugar intake. This suggests a small change in sodas plus sugar or sweets to be added to the top level of the valuable tax system. That's an important public health goal, which I'd like to see. At least, the senators lay down. at this point, but also the income raise for the state funds. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u24	Mr. President. I like it. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, makes a major decision. In nature, however, the Conspiracy is a co-founder of such a suggestion, but we do believe that if we shift from our arms to any tax proposal that is in the Community's policy, which is quite numerous, and all others would have done so, we would not now be putting aside the budget, since we have guaranteed 12.6 billion in the necessary structure and would have had to start making some temporary arrangements into the future. We need to work this out. We came back in a new year with you guys fighting for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u25	I'm assuming we're dealing with a host tax. [[Foreground on: No.]] No? The sugar tax? [[Foreground on: No.]] I pray that I have taken the matter without any cause. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u26	Mr. President. It was always my understanding that a host tax should be increased in part to the rural community. I'm sorry that change isn't here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u27	President. I think it's pathetic when it comes to the stay fee and when you come taxing on how you're doing. When it was time for a place to stay, it would have been most natural for us to follow the example of other nations that we often compare with and have a percentage of 5% in all rooms. Then we would have gotten a lot of money into our rural society, and we could even spread into a common fund connected to our rural society so that the necessary infrastructure could be established. It's not. This is typical, for example. When it's time for the arrival fee. There's a charge whether it's legal or not. I would have liked to see further details on how to deal with the problem of infrastructure that is related to the growing stream of tourists to the country. That certainly is not done here, but there had been a very good agreement in the discourses of five groups on how this might be done. This is so far away that I have a very difficult time supporting it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u28	Mr. President. This is where we pay a vote on return charges. It is not true that this discussion has not been carried out in recent years. There's been a lot of debate about how to tax the enormous number of tourists that have come to the country and that they need to earn money to build up wood to meet the growing numbers. This decision has taken its turn, but this discussion has been under way, and the matter has been discussed a lot. This is where we lay the left green for 1,000 bucks. IRS, arrival of passengers into the country. It's not a supernova. It is the minimum needed to start with the journey we should have made a few years ago. But people have not had the courage to do so. Tourists have discussed this as the easiest way to reach income to meet the costs of increasing numbers of tourists on both highways, in health and elsewhere. I can't believe the senators didn't have the courage to vote again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u29	A respectable president. I'm kind of here to talk about my vote. I hate it, and I refuse to hear that other senators explain how and what I vote. It's just that way. We made a deal on a budget committee, and I don't have a split personality that I can do anything else here. That's why I'm against it, because it's like this. I don't think it's completely acceptable. It's a play I don't want to be in. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u30	Mr. President. I say like others who have pointed out that an agreement was made in a budget and not in a financial and business committee. However, I would like to say this excellent suggestion that in many respects it is good, but I have doubts about it, considering that it probably does not fulfill the requirements of the EEA Convention because it merely turns to come from abroad, not to trips within the country. This will violate EU-wide equality. Although I have decided to vote with the proposal now, I think we should take this up later when there may be more support. Then we should remember that this will be good for us, since this is one way to try to slow down only the vast increase in tourism that causes us problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u31	A respectable president. Of course, these suggestions and ideas have often come to the attention of society. I think, in view of what we have discussed, to resolve matters in a reasonable way under these circumstances, that it is most reasonable to push this issue into the future. A complete policy must be adopted in a travel service. We were agreeing to raise the budget from September 1 to triple, in a dollar number from 100 to 300 bucks. There are many who have pointed out, including me, that it might be more reasonable to put on this percentage rather than a dollar raise in the mask so that inexpensive lodging would not cost you up to 300 bucks. While those animals did so. We know it from other lands. We also need to interact with what is normal in putting into practice the situation today, with the constant funding of the crown and the economic impact of it on the industry and the economy. I think it is clear that the interest in paying such fees should be referred to in a comprehensive work on how we see the development of tourism in the years and how it takes advantage of the economy and our economic life. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u32	Mr. President. In climate, we are in a race for time. I think we're all agreed that we're going too slow, unfortunately. But we're quite optimistic, though. A carbon charge is one of the ways to improve. That is also true of everyone. In the bill series, the increase was 5%. We're suggesting she'll be 1 0 percent. It's a very modest rise. I also want to use this opportunity to remind you that there is a need to expand the foundation of this carbon tax so that airplane fuels and carbon efficiency in energy - consuming industry will come into it, because we are now all climate friends, I think I may claim. I encourage Congress to vote for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u33	Mr. President. This is a vote to re-create on capital tax, capital gains over 2 billion. K. Each year, with a peak step on pay income of more than 2 billion. K. per month. I'll say yes to this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u34	A respectable president. The adjustment proposal for 5th pars. Faces the fact that a board of fools should be published publicly, its conferences and its interest log. I simply want to make it clear that by paying votes against this adjustment proposal, members of the Parliament are votes against the public's further enlightenment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u35	Mr. President. I rest my mind with the suggestion that the interests of those with official authority are as bright as any other. I'm sorry that the U.S.R. doesn't agree with this proposal, but it's as if government laws are considered to apply to advice, though, that we have a measure of interest and possible conflict of interest in those who are in charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u36	A respectable president. I'll allow myself to disagree. A senator who offers this adjustment proposal to make what it means for those who do not vote for it. In the short future, we will view it as a very careful consideration that advice under government and information law is indeed a rule of interest and eligibility that is sufficiently sound. We do not oppose this change, but we believe that it is a twofold act of law that is not needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u37	President. There are certainly changes in this bill for improvement, but it does not account for the intervention of this bill now. In the community, however, a crisis arose when a board of sage decided on a day to raise its salary by more than 40% spontaneously. We suggested that this bill be scheduled on the basis of a recommendation to revise the decision. It hasn't been done. Then the decision was made to direct them to the Presidency Committee that various pressure payments for members of the council would be addressed if nothing had been done. There have been no clear suggestions or bill from the Presidency Committee to do this, so I suggest that I find it ridiculous to take this case through now the first grounds for the program being completely smiling.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u38	A respectable president. I think we can all agree that the body of advice was inadequate. We saw the best day of last, when this tremendous increase came, strengthening confidence in work, not only in members of Congress, but also in others under the advice of men. This law has now been repaired, and it is now clear that a decision must not exceed the general pay structure in this country. It should be taken into account, the work should all be transparent, based on statistics rather than on some suitable policy. That's a great improvement, and I'm glad we've done it today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u39	Mr. President. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, mentioned, this whole matter is not over. It was not planned on the grounds that it was the decision of a coward's council. The bill had no stronger regulations, a weaker law that should include that a dresser's advice cannot exceed general pay development. On the other hand, in the treatment of the committee, she courted this and why. The official of the case, Björt Ólafsdóttir, courted in this chair yesterday that it would be illegal for the advice of men to go beyond that. It's a law reference, and it's very good. Then you may have framed it well enough so that you cannot legally exceed your general salary development. If so, it is very good. The law, however, did not allow it to, and it was illegal. I still have a plan to sue the advice of a dresser for this decision on Christmas Eve. On the other hand, I do not have a very strong case to press charges if a prime committee reduces the election of members of Congress so that the total salary of the Parliament has not gone beyond the general pay grade. [[The president calls.]] Now we'll see how this goes on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u40	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise a new law on foreigners taking effect on January 1, the second. The bill includes the recording of the 1st paragraph 2 mg. and 3 mg. Thirty-five. a code of foreigners is suspended for six months, to July 1st, 2017, and instead a new provisional arrangement will be implemented for that time. Provided in the 35th chapter It is requested that the decision of the National Institutes of Iceland to deny the application of requisitioners for international protection on the land at any given time does not justify the right effects of the decision. However, it has been shown that the matter is not fully understood and therefore whether the NTSB may still accept requests for a delay in proper action toward material treatment. Reference to 29. The rest of the law is blurred as this will be carried out primarily for the b-joins 1. Twenty-nine. which, in turn, lead to unfounded applications, not to the other letters of the law. The same uncertainty prevails because of reference to 36th degree. The rest of the law. Therefore, to avoid such a problem of rights, it is suggested that we take force in the judicial process of the 35th chapter. is postponed for six months, and instead of a clear provisional directive to not charge the legal effect of the National Institute of Iceland that a foreigner should leave the country in those cases where the Agency has considered his application for international protection apparently unprovable and that it comes from a state in the state of the Agency's list of secure countries. It is also required that the same value of a decision taken by the National Institute of Iceland not to postpone the implementation of an already determined foreigner. In this way it is clear that the NTSB committee is required to dismiss the demand for an extension of the proper effect in such cases as the disclosure of the National Institutes of Iceland to the Committee, and therefore the decision to transfer from the country may be immediately implemented. However, it should be noted that this does not limit the criminal rights of the accused to the NTSB. This provisional principle, therefore, is actually an extension of the same legal situation since the introduction of a physical agreement between temporary law on foreigners by law No. 106/2016. Then the time to July 1 will be used to review and explain Article 35. foreign shapes. As we know, there has been an enormous increase in application for international protection in this country and have applied to over 1,100 persons for such protection. More than 60% of the applications have come from the peoples of two countries, Albania and Macedonia, this autumn months, both countries being considered as secure. The vast majority of applicants' applications from these countries are therefore unfounded and their dissociative rates here and anywhere else in Europe are about 99%. This large number of applications has brought tremendous stress to the country's reception and services. December 1st. There were 820 members of the Foreign Institute Service or community service. Clearly, such a large proportion of unfounded applications reduces the quality of the services to be done correctly to those who truly need this refugee emergency system. Therefore, it is urgent that the General gave a clear signal that they will not be abused in this way and that there is unambiguous authority to export people from the country when their application has been clearly considered unfounded by the Foreign Institute. V.E.G. President. I have explained the main subject of the bill and suggest that it be referred to. General and educational committee for treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of history. I had thought I'd ask a few questions. I don't think that it will be possible to ensure that everyone will receive their fair treatment, as it should be, under the United Nations refugee Convention and by other human rights contracts that we are on. So I ask myself, " Do I have any knowledge of the procedure that takes place at the Foreign Institute of Iceland when I consider people's applications from safe countries, as they are called, clearly unfounded? ' Does it have any assurance that a U.S. National Institute does not simply label every person with a passport from certain countries rather than examine their case individually?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u42	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his inquiry. I have no reason to believe that the Foreign Institute is not doing business professionally and firmly, nor is there any question that everyone is entitled to a legal case. We are moving this group into the process that allows us to be more efficient and to work hard on these matters and to help people who really need help.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u43	A respectable president. Indeed, efficiency is important, not priorities, in individuals' rights. A respectable carrier here notes that she is not worried that the Foreign Institute will not handle matters professionally. Since I myself have divided a lot of this series of subjects and have worked on it, I am aware that there will be mistakes and regularities. Individual circumstances are often ignored. So I recommend that there be a very careful consideration of how the rights of the persons sent out of the country before they receive their final treatment in the administration board will be guaranteed if this is intended for the United States of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u44	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for this comment. What we're doing is actually extending the existing work force. The application is now being embezzled out, which is certainly unfounded. On this basis, work becomes more progressive, better, and efficient. We're only extending this process and establishing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u45	A respectable president. The one standing here went before a transliterated Parliamentary commission that involved an overall review of foreigners during the last term. This overall review was one of the largest in the history of the jury, and the bill was one of the largest and the most extensive steps taken by the Council at one time. The laws that apply at this time of the year include the code of laws that apply today. substantial changes in the environment of the trustees or candidates for international protection under the United Nations refugee Convention. The system, if we can call it that, that justice, deals with the duties of the Icelanders under the United Nations refugee Convention to provide asylum for people who come from war - torn countries or who are persecuted by religion, background, or otherwise according to the definitions of the refugee agreement. The so - called support system of refugees in Iceland is based on this group, the group having no international rights to the asylum under the refugee agreement. The problem of the system here on a country that has not been hidden and has been much discussed is a large increase in candidates that takes time to complete applications and enjoy services while they are being completed. Much more in Iceland, those who are applying for and in this system, comes from countries that are considered secure and as identified in the case of a carrier, there is no exception that individuals from these countries are entitled to the asylum as defined by the refugee agreement. In revised legislation, which is currently valid for the year, the possibility of a judicial committee is expected to include a kind of quick treatment for a certain comparable application of individuals from a safe country. In this case the law assumes the possibility of notation from unprovable postponement of proper effects, i.e. When it comes to remobilization during a lawsuit. It has been found that in these laws, which are one of the most vastly established laws, and we knew that by then, we would have to figure out the baits of the law and perhaps make some changes. In this case it is believed that this law needs to be adjusted. Therefore, it is requested that this exception from the rules of unprovable validation continue to July 1 so that the new law can be adjusted to ensure the inspiration of the law. We in a bright future will support the proposal. We realize that this is a very delicate group of subjects. How important it is that we fulfill the plan of the Generals when we revised and approved our alien law that we are improving our legal rights, to strengthen our adherence to international contracts and human rights! In this context, we feel that it is very important to work under the law to be effective without affecting the human rights and rights of those applying for protection. Prominent individuals are not being prevented, merely giving the possibility that the right effect will not be delayed in the case of those coming from safe countries. We will support this bill, and we will look forward to and expect to reevaluate the law in the manner of the Council and the Council of Congress in due time and, hopefully, will arrive before the General Assembly on July 1.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-11.u46	A respectable president. People all over the world live with hopes, dreams, and desires, a desire for freedom that often cannot be corrected by law. In many lands, countries have established very burdensome rules that make it very difficult to move from country to country to make their dreams come true. Today, no doubt, the situation is much more narrow than it was 100 or 150 years ago. I'm afraid this is a global development. What has happened is that many countries of this world have closed their front doors but left behind a window of emergency that people can climb up to a specific rope. This has become one of the main ways in which people from some territories move abroad. I'm very sorry it's the arrangement. I'm, and I think most of us at Strategic, that it would be a much better arrangement to have the main door open to this house, but not that men had to climb a rope to get into the house. To some countries around the world, transporting, such as Europeans and Northern countries, or from them to Iceland or other of these countries, is much more difficult. That's true, e.g. in the Balkan Peninsula from where there are many of the applications contained in this bill. The question is, what do you do when you live in such a country and you have the dream, or the desire to move to another country, Iceland, or any other country? Icelanders today have the legislation that if anyone is going to come to the country to work for a temporary purpose, they or they need to be asked for a temporary deposit because of temporary lack of labor and there is a very limited visa. It does not give people the right to obtain the right to live and the right to take children to their country. In many ways, because of humanitarian or international protection, there is a much better provision. It is not incomprehensible, then, that many people are reaching out for such residences, even though you do not have to claim that it means all those who come from that land. The alien laws that make up January 1 are greatly improved by some changes. The Congress concluded that international protection should be sharpened, but it makes it easier for people to move to countries to make their dreams and desires come true. In this regard, however, we are not very far off, and we are relatively far behind other nations. Because of temporary lack of labor, it is considered that, more fortunately, a permit that is very good, but it does not give people the right to take their families along to the country, which is hopefully something we can think of to change in time. There are two factors in this. Undeniably, it may be a bit difficult to stand here and to speak for the fact that the window that is the way of many people to enter the land. It is very difficult to look at the matter and to explain it in other ways. In the implementation of new foreigners, there are members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and those who work on these matters are not sure whether the legal situation of these matters is going to continue or if there would be a right thing that could lead to one another. There is no interest in maintaining that uncertainty. That's why it's suggested. I have reason to believe the main explanation there is, and we on wood and on the other hand will be able to support the proceedings of this case. But this is only one thing, and as I say, the next January 1 will be a new alien law. By that law, my hope and my hope are that it will be easier for people from regions of Europe to come to the land and make their dreams come true. If the conclusion and the implementation of their laws will not happen, we will go to the job to ensure that this will be and trust in a solid alliance at the council.
