ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u1	Borist has written a letter from the Department of Professional Road and Development that asks for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the question of robotics. 1147 on the move to the county service, from Birks Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u2	To answer, Ministers of Economics and Economics, Education and Culture, Industrial and Business Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u3	A respectable president. Long ago, Iceland and I have been able to boast about a phenomenon called a national registry, which is extremely useful and contains information about the entire population. And good. That registry includes people's legal homes, social numbers, and names, etc. That's what we all know. At one time, before the Internet, this file was the nature that you did not expect it to go into general distribution throughout the world. Then the Internet came, and at its time people played with looking up the file without any sort of authentication. Today, it is kept within the framework of home banks or similar places, but companies and services around the world use a national file, which is very useful for many works. But I think there's one thing that has happened in the meantime, we haven't realized that there's certainly information there about all the people of the country that may become more sensitive over time, which has become easier to distribute. It is worth considering from time to time whether it is reasonable for all the people of the land to have a legal obligation to give up where they stored their things, their families, and themselves in general. I'm talking about legal registration specifically. It's a discussion that I've long wanted to do only because I don't understand exactly why we really need a legal home in a publicized nation, except to have a clear channel for e.g. A responsible letter, as well as the like, when it is necessary for the State to get to a certain person in a real way. But I think today would be electronic ways that would make the arrangement really out of date to have a place in public record and to have it legal in return. Now I've just heard that a bill was working somewhere in the administration, and it was related to this. I wanted to curious about it at the highest. Minister of state what that bill's position and attitude were. A minister would be a member of the seminar.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u4	V.E.G. President. You're right next door. A senator on the load has been a bill of adjustments in legal requirements. Under that heading, it has been discussed whether a husband and wife can, in some cases, have their legal home, whether it is possible for them to do so. There are, of course, other principles that are being considered in connection with the legal bill that I do not expect to be seen at this legislature. Hv. A senator here brings up a point that I don't trust to talk about in question class, but there's an interesting question about whether the files we have now run out of time, as I understand a question. A senator, and whether any more changes in communication and Internet communications should affect the much of the records we keep on the government's behalf. It is vast, as we know, not just a national file, but various other records as well. I seriously doubt that, although I'm not going to say it, this opinion came up at work for this reason. I'd love to see what it's like and have a place to say. A senator when I am better prepared to answer these specific questions. But I'm not hiding that I think the question is as good as it is. A senator makes an interesting presentation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u5	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this reaction. This is something that we may not be accustomed to thinking about every day in Iceland. We are simply used to having a national record. We are used to making this information available to everyone. As the years go by, I always have more and more worries about the fact that this is too much. I wonder if we're shooting a national file now whether we're going to put our place in a legal home in that list if it's available electronicly in all country's homes and elsewhere, including, as I say, there are a number of people who use it. Now, I'd like to think that this is not an act against a national file or its existence end up a very valuable document that we use in very important activities, both public and unofficial. However, it is important for me to maintain that technological advancements offer new ways of solving problems that we previously solved with items such as legal registration. That's why I'm happy to be the highest. Minister will take care of it and hope to the highest degree. A minister would agree that these old problems can be solved more recently.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u6	A respectable president. I'm sure that if we were now on a clean table and could start things all over again, we would probably be doing very much differently than we do today, and we'd probably have many things in the files and other information that the state holds together, many of which are naturally essential, in other ways. I don't think there's any doubt about that. There may be a little bit of freedom to allow yourself at least To think about them, though, there may be an outside limit on what you can do. I'd also like to say about all the technological advances that become that we're always a little bit after them, the lawgiver is always behind them. It's hard to imagine things in advance. We are generally alert when it comes to complex changes in technology, and we know that too. But I'll certainly come up with the discussion that has happened here and we'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u7	A respectable president. Prime Minister and secretary of finance have repeatedly issued a declaration that the election will take place in the fall. The second part of the month of October has been mentioned, but now I ask: Can we be sure that these declarations will stand? The reason I ask is because the head of the parish, recently released a public statement that last night, it was not necessary to enter an election in the fall. Today, both prime minister and financial minister have been quite clear. The head of the Independence Party has declared that this terms will be cut short by one assembly and while the head of the Annexe Party was on leave, this has been the case with the largest housing case, which was a case of great intensity on the move. Last night, we completed the high - stakes that the minister of finance had put before us. So I ask if we can't trust that the proposed work programme and plan to make the election a success. This is important for the work at the council, but it is also important for democratic work outside of the council and for the preparation of classes, both held at the council and from the council, to provide and to other such items, and it is necessary to increase. Secretary of finance makes clear what intentions are.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u8	A respectable president. There has been no change in what we prime minister have previously said is scheduled for elections in the autumn. That's right. A senator's success has been fine. That's very important. It's also right next door. A senator as a whole is important not only for the Senate work but also for democratic preparation and outside action. In this regard, we can relate that I had the last district meeting in my political class yesterday based on the idea of choosing in the fall, where re-election was decided this fall, late summer, or fall. The same thing happened in my own district last week, where we in the Southwestern district decided to hold a re-test in late August or early September, so it has not changed in that subject. On the other hand, I state that there are conflicting opinions on these subjects. We also saw this on surveys performed at the time among the people of the country. The difference in social views was whether to choose now in the spring or in the fall or later, so it is not surprising. But we set out in this renewed administrative organization with that thought. We haven't been discussed and are not available to make changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u9	A respectable president. Sadly, you may ask for no reason whether the promises of elections will be fulfilled because the promise of national pay was also made during this most anticipated period. To say that, I welcome the Declaration of the Independence Party's chairman that these declarations of Prime Ministers and Secretary of finance are standing and unable to change them. It is important for the council to make it clear. But I'm forced to ask the minister about the declaration made yesterday by the head of the Annexe Party, including the U.S. that it could be elected by the election in the fall requires the approval of the members of both sides of the board and that it is not available. Now I'm hearing the highest. According to the secretary of finance, the renewed operation of the Theocratic Ministry School and the Independence Party rests on the election in the fall and therefore asks him if he does not believe that the prime minister himself declared it on behalf of the forward party, and the party of the Agency is bound by the agreements of the Party, such as the Independence Party seems to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u10	A respectable president. It is now by the general political community that humans will not be forced into such cooperation on any grounds beyond what they want. I reiterate what I've stated before that we've arranged for a vote in the fall. As a matter of fact, I find it quite remarkable how often I and the prime minister have come up here and said this was the plan. [[Up front.]] [[The point is, who is she?]] In other words, it is commendable that Congress works well. I agree that big business is running out. But I'm also going to make it perfectly clear what we both have, me and the prime minister, told from the beginning, from the first few days: We are looking for a big deal to run out. One of those cases went out yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u11	A respectable president. V.E.G. During the past May 18, the minister of industrial activity addressed Saʹsam's annual meeting, stressing how to improve the competitive status of aluminium companies in Iceland. There, the minister, with permission from the President, said: To this end, we have recently begun an analysis, which includes an opinion of future processes in energy transport and a comparison of the transport costs of electricity in Iceland and Norway. Iceland's economy is already a major foundation in Europe's economy, and therefore the government is continuing to contribute to the support of this competitive and stable management environment. This same meeting was held, in the presentation of KPMG, the company's assessment of the European energy market. It said that there was a number of indications that the transfer of electricity to gross industry in Norway was replaced in an abnormal way by the government. For this reason, I'd like to ask the highest. Industrial Minister: Is it possible for the Minister of Industrial Affairs that the State will clear the transport of electricity to the Member States in Iceland to improve their competitive stand against Norway's major industry? Would it not be easier to see if Norwegians represent illegal subsidies for electricity transport, as KPMG has suggested there is evidence?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u12	A respectable president. This question is quickly answered: This is precisely because of the differences between transport prices here and Norway that were decided to initiate this analysis. It can be both, we need, and it was my resolve to make sure that it is as good as anywhere else. At the same meeting, as the senator rightly points out, the opinions of KPMG advisers and tips to the aluminium companies, I would say, and the government would consider whether the federal grants in Norway are in line for the European Union's Constitution. That's exactly what this is all about. To answer a question, why? The senator's explanation: No, it's not intended to subsidize here in any way or in any way. Rather, we are considering the position of these enterprises in general and competitive. Of course, we will take the information given in the meeting and look into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. However, it remains to the highest level. While, according to its words, it is important to improve the competitiveness of aluminium companies in Iceland, it is not necessary to do so in a way that was quoted if there was any objection to energy. I would like to direct our attention to the fact that it has been observed here in the conference hall and in the media that there is a greater demand for electricity from major users than is available. It has also been observed that some people who want to build industrial activities in this country are willing to pay considerably higher prices than the farms are paying. That's why I'd like to ask: Why should the government increase the appeal to improve the competitiveness of an aluminium being here in Iceland when people are waiting in line to buy electricity at a much higher price for a much environmental level? Would it not be more intimate that the government was directly promoting the emancipation of public power companies from unfavourable energy agreements and instead negotiated with those who do not need special delivery or discount on the part of the State and hence the public?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u14	A respectable president. It is the general policy of this government to ensure the economy of all competitiveness and preferably a better environment than the one in the countries we compare with. That is true of this industry as well as of others. It doesn't mean that I'd like to make things worse and I'd like to correct things. Senator, it wasn't in my case. What we're doing in this analysis is that we're looking at a competitive environment here in comparison with an environment comparable to industry in another area. Then there is something else. A senator mentions, and there is electrical agreements and supply and demand for electricity. The agreements taken here are made in the long run, and it is not in the time of this government that it was in the process of giving the intention to do great things. I remind you that during the last assembly, the government had as good as it was. A senator was premeditated to provide special appeals to a particular project in the northern part of the country that we have continued. [[The president calls.]] This is a procedure that the senator should know very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u15	A respectable president. Reports have been received from the Academy of Education at Akureyri that the Ministry of Economics stopped paying bills to the school for the year by reasoning that the school does not receive more money until the last year's nap is paid up, around Twenty million. K. That sounds rather strange, though, because there are a number of organizations that have been collected without the financial office giving away money. It has been called for explanations and complained that a minister of education who was traveling in a northern country has not attended VMA's call to attend a school meeting and explain its subject. I'm going to give the highest. A chance to come up here and explain what's going on. Why isn't the Academy of Education in Akureyri paid cash? Is it any new thing that every institution with the angle of the previous few years does not get a trust fund? Will the Landsspians and the National Focal University and other institutions face the same problem? There's something mysterious going on here. The Ministry of Economics claims, if I understand correctly, that information missing from the Ministry of Education about the way the Academy is going to pay off that corner. But I find it hard to believe, because we agreed on budgets for 2016, and in that budget, the amount of money that is available for the Academy of Education at Akureyri must be based on some sort of management strategy that the Ministry of Education has taken over and approved. This is a really weird case. A respectable president. I wish for the highest. A minister of education will come up here and realize what's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and would like to say that there have been special posts with regard to some high school activities. There are six of them who are in a situation similar to VMA today. This is true in terms of growth that during the past New Year's season, there was an abundance of 240 million high school rests in the high school system. K. According to agreed management schedules. A candidate mentioned in his talk was expected to pay down 60 million in the year. K. of the tilt. Without going into the technical context of it, it did not work after the running of these plans into the foundations of the Financial Bureau, so it was apparently assumed that the entire 240 million would be paid already this year. It never stood up and was never put up with it. The strategy adopted by the Ministry expected 60 million. K. payment on the slope. I can tell you what. A senator who has had meetings to deal with this problem. The conclusion is that the schools that are in this position will be put into position by the Commission, which is in accordance with the plans the schools themselves had made. That means that the University of College at Akureyri, the Women's School, and Flensburg School get into a much better position. In fact, the school at Lysa and on Snæfells is such that they also receive a share of the special funds planned for small schools. Like what? A senator mentioned in his talk being the director of the School for Education in Akureyri more than that, i.e. Getting the schools in the plan is good enough for that school. There's a problem that's filled up. So I hope that the solution I just described here is about to become reality, but there's still a problem that we're going to have about the Academy of Education in Akureyri. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u17	A respectable president. I didn't quite understand the answer. In other words, the problem has not been solved. It is acknowledged that human error has taken place in some system, but the problem of this school is still there. Then, especially, I am talking about the Academy of Educators in Akureyri, where teachers put out their own expenses so that the school work can be continued. If a minister's decision is not to solve this problem, that these schools should be defrauded, then the sails must be pulled together. It's interesting, though, that we put the sails together in the mine. In one word we talk about a new education and say that we may be a nation too much in the book study, but then we watch schools that can't even afford to replace computers. That answer disappoints me, a respectable president. I'm going to give the highest. The minister of education has another chance to come and just answer it right: Has this problem been solved? If not, what's going on with the Academy of Education in Akureyri? Has the Ministry of Economics begun to pay out cash for the school?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u18	A respectable president. I reiterate this: At the beginning of this year's 250 million was a collection of business problems at high school. K. and the strategy adopted expected to be paid down 60 million. K. tail during the year. There would have been no success after working on these programmes, and it is obviously a technical mistake. The result of a conversation between the two officials of this matter is that the schools involved here and the problems they're having, it's not just the Labor School in Akureyri, there are other schools, and they'll be put in a position to be on schedule as planned. In contrast, the problem of the Academy of Education in Akureyri is greater than that of doing so alone. Therefore, the subject of that school needs to be discussed more closely. A respectable president. There is no secret in it at the council, and I have repeatedly said that there is still no money in the high school system. In recent years or the years after the school system broke down, there was a significant cutdown. A State Review pointed out that 2 billion people had been removed from the system and that it was difficult for high school to work out of it. [[The president calls.]] But as the government budget shows, there is a better time, but these problems are still there. [[The president calls.]] They must be worked to find a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u19	A respectable president. I want to talk to the highest. The secretary of finance for the recent financial programme, which has led to significant disappointments, as can be seen from the response of both the labour market and the commercial sectors. It is not really or is, and it does not contain a clear policy on government issues. In words, the government budget is reporting a staging and cutting of projects and businesses in order to address the expansion, as it is called. Yet the government's tax reduction policy remains unchanged. If there's something that's floundering, it's a tax down, of course. And now, in fact, there's a host, e.g. The Norwegian economist, however, shows that tax declines are both adverse and unjust, at least if the goal is to expand and increase the equation, but this is probably not the objective of this government. At any rate, the tax returns to the limit. At the same time, health institutions are starving. It is not yet, as you can see, increasing or improving your services, reduce the patient's payment, because, based on the pay-off bill being discussed here, no money should enter it, so patients are taking their own transfers from other patient groups. This is what I want to talk to the highest. A minister of finance because you thought that this was a way to use the goods this government inherited and grease the cogs in the welfare system, aims to promote and strengthen services if the construction work cannot be increased. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u20	A respectable president. It is only wrong here to say that there is a recession in the operation and operation over the next five years in a financial program. It's just wrong. What is foretold is that we can at the same time pay off debt, keep our country stable, and raise the State's budget up to 10% in five years. I'm going to allow me to state that in the future, we will not often experience the time we are living in now, where we can prove that there is room for that growth in the actual cost of the government of business, i.e. which, in terms of financial commitment, we call the originals, and at the same time, we reached another important objective. So I'm thinking that these are plans that reflect a great deal of economic growth. So it is quite wrong that this service is not being improved. It is quite mistaken that the welfare system will not be strengthened. For example, as soon as the next year, improvements are expected, as legally stated, to increase pay development and may increase by 7% immediately next year. All of this has been provided for the program, and a number of important structures are there too. It is true, however, that there are differing views in the community. That was quite expecting. There are some who say it's too much of a puzzle plan. That we're supposed to cut the charge gate. That's what we're hearing right now from the last of the business councils and business organizations. And then we have the others, like, one. Iceland's Common Association, stressing that they want to use the tax systems more in order to achieve their equations. [[The president calls.]] That is exactly what the work force called for the tax action there, including the tax action it provides. Deportation of the middle phase. [[The president calls.]] As a result, a good agreement with parties like VR was reached.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u21	A respectable president. Government budgets show that there should be strict management of public activities and activities to meet this challenge. However, it is true which occurs at the highest level. Secretary of finance, that when it comes to numbers, a lot of money is being put into place, such as. ............................................ The government boasts that they will be setting up over the next five billion increases in the health system over the next five years. But as you take care of them, there are 21 billion due to ground expenses on the construction of a new land hospital. This means that there is very little left to improve and improve the quality of your health. That's exactly the inconsistencies I'd like to have with the highest level of conversation. Secretary of finance because it is easy to see that words and actions conflict in the budget. Therefore, it would be interesting to know whether the policy is to nurture the services and improve and strengthen the welfare system, which, of course, would be preferable to do when there is a risk of filing, or whether the cause is simply driving in public activities with the resulting expansion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u22	A respectable president. I just disagree with the course, as it were. A senator often speaks up, and it sounds to me here, that under these circumstances it is appropriate to raise taxes and increase public activity. I just don't agree with that. Now, once we've established official financial laws, we'll be willing to contribute to Iceland's stability. We now have 1.6% inflation. We want to see the growth of the Federal Bank come down, so interest rates on loans to households and businesses in the country continue to decrease. It is a crucial moment in the sense that if you step out to the stage and say, "We're going to use the good stuff to make big business in the state, to put more money in circulation, and we're going to take the hand of various tax centres for that purpose, we're going to be adding to the spell, we're working against growing, and we're going to make more money. That is why this program is announced that we are going to hold back. While we are in big business in a new investment, we will hold back our public investment because it is simply necessary. [[The president calls.]] And then I refuse, whether from Norway or from others, to the fact that taxes are an unfair route or impossible, we are reducing taxes to ease people and companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u23	V.E.G. President. On February 15, I asked for a question to the highest level. Minister of the state of Húsavík, which I'll be following. Even though it's been three months, I know that the inquiry has not been scheduled until now, for which I thank you. Some years ago, while large numbers of passengers are on the move, it is a good record to tell you that the Airlines Society adopted a planned flight to Húsavík. For example, in March of last year, 680 passengers traveled the course, with no less than 1,700 this year. This has changed completely, and the flight is widely used as shown in these numbers. There's a lot of problems at Húsavík Airport that need fixing. In the past, I have made up the middle of my flight compass and the distance gauge, and I come to that one more time. This request was made after a meeting with the local authorities at Húsavík and others, who expressed a lot of concern over what had been then asked, that there was a plan to narrow the runway, which is a permanent wearoff, from 45 feet to 30 meters. The question is, What are we going to save? Second, what is the cost of such an operation, and how will it be divided? - I hope to the highest. Ministers don't have to tell me what the cost is, hopefully it's over. Third, the point I've asked a few times before but I've never had any answers: Why are the air cover and the distance gauge in the plane tower not connected and put to use? The best thing to do is to say that these are devices, which, of course, are probably 15,520 years old, aerospace gauges, and distance gauges, which are, of course, very high safety instruments and additional services. For example, if these devices are not in use at present, then the minimum number of 680 feet that machines can enter is currently in use. If these devices were connected or OK, it'd be only 300 feet. That's a lot of stuff. This has made it necessary for this airline, which transports so many passengers, to land in Akureyri at expense and discomfort for people and the expense of the local community to pass through. Fourth, I ask what to use for 150 million. K. arranged for this year at Húsavík Airport. I think I know. It shall also be said well done, and I know not to cross the field and set up the track lights. The structure of the track lights may tell us where the width will be. [[The president calls.]] But these are the questions I asked. I expect the highest. An inside minister will give us satisfying answers to the situation at this airport, which is so much used as a witness.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u24	A respectable president. First, I want to say that it is very happy to see how much Húsavík has become in use. This is an airport that we may have thought had the lights turned off, but now we see that the activities in this area have made it possible for humans to keep the flight up. Of course, this is extremely important. Then I'm going to get started and answer questions for you. Senator. I'm going to confess to the United States that I was a little confused first in how to answer the question, the first, why is it that the airport at Húsavík, 45 meters to 30, what is expected of me, because the airport at Húsavík is 30 meters wide? A chapter on the airport in an aerodynamic manual shows that the runway is 30 meters wide, and it is a tar - bound malarway. The airport has been defined in this way for many of the past few years. It's assumed, like a dog. A member of the council noted, that the stretch is being renewed during the summer, and it continues to produce a 30 - foot - wide [30 m] orbit. The cost of this wearout - then there's a problem. A senator continues to ponder over the 45 - meter [45 meters], which makes the runway 100 feet [30 m] wide. The third question is: Why are the air cover and the distance gauge in the plane tower not connected and put in use? From 1978 onward, we have the air cover, which is located at Húsavík Airport. He has not been in use for ten years and has been evaluated in damage to Istavia's staff. Because of his age, no parts of the lighthouse have been available, but the requirements and regulations have also changed to the point that it is considered costly to try to repair them. During the past few years, a so - called global GPS approach has been developed into less - used international airports, but it is aimed at keeping an aerodynamic eye for the defined international airports of Copenhagen, Reykjavík, Akureyri, and Egression. Renewing of the flight compass in Húsavík has been estimated to be 50 to 170 million. To date, the exact schedule has not been determined, and the amount of money that you value depends on the degree of this aerosol sweat. Of course, I allow myself to assert that it too has much to do with the use that is at the airport, and we see that it is considerably. This is a very important question. A senator is throwing out there. Fourth, what should be used for the 150 million each year in Húsavík Airport? The overall plan for maintenance at Húsavík Airport this year is 202 million. K. - What's the matter with you? - What's the matter with you? Of these, 85 million are. K. expected as a result of clothing on the runway, since it has grown considerably old. Senators know. The introduction of new clothing cannot be avoided. 117.5 billion expected. K. due to new runway lights, which are expected to renew the lights, as well as more and less of the airport electricity system. V.E.G. President. The answer is, Húsavík Airport is in significant use. It is clear that the authorities are looking to the airport when it comes to maintenance. There is a step that is urgent when it comes to the wearoff, but I assure you that it is by no means maintenance and renewal of Húsavík Airport are completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u25	A respectable president. I wanted to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller for bringing attention to Húsavík's position and to the highest level. Minister Olöfu Nordal for clear answers. It is positive that considerable funds are being placed on a runway and on a new runway light, while the electrical system is being renovated. We must ask ourselves, " Do we not have to make sure that this airport can stay and be the best equipped to use the tremendous amount of flight that goes on the course, that can become more? ' We are discussing, for example, the lack of security on the environment and transport committees, and this may be the best time to strengthen domestic flights. And strengthening all the international airports is a positive step. But it's all for the evaluation of the Environment and Transport Committee, and let's see what's in them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller for bringing up the Húsavík Airport position. This airport is important, and it is one of the airports in the country that counts as valuable; the fact that it exists in itself. How important it is that we keep them valuable, for today, among other things, we have ideas for using smaller airports and smaller machines to create new products for international tourism! Then we'll need these airports. I'd like to encourage better consideration of the interaction between the width and the location of light. There we seem to be in some kind of system where one decision leads to the fact that the rules say no again, which means we must make another decision that is not necessarily the best one for the course.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u27	V.E.G. President. I thank you for taking this very important matter here on the program, which is the situation at Húsavík Airport. As we have seen, the use of transport has increased a great deal, and it has been a joy to build up the transport network and to increase the transport currents in that area. The minister reviewed what might be needed to renew it, and it is good and good; it is a joy to be concerned about it. Now it seems that a new flight equipment is being picked up on airplanes. I ask: Is it possible to consult those who serve as the flight service for the purpose of technology? It seems to be, I've heard it happen, that even machines can be placed in Akureyri that can't be landed in Húsavík. But I'm happy for everything that's involved in building and continuing to maintain this airport.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u28	A respectable president. Thank you for bringing this matter to the attention. Now I have to admit that I know a lot about this airport's affairs, actually nothing. But I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity and to point out that already there are three decision-making on international flights laid out before this council. Councilmen. So I wanted to help you with the fact that it seems that there is a full will amongst the senators to care for the airports in general, not only within the country, but also about the international flight. I'll give the council a pact then. paritaprevir Ásmundur's Friðriksson, who made a pact proposal for international flights through the Western island airport and Isafjörður Airport. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller proposed a synonym on international flights through Akureyri and Eglish Standard Airport and at the head. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdóttir proposed a pactal proposal for international flights through the Hornground Airport. These are all matters that I think we should consider overall, in view of the increased tourist currents and the many instruments contained in that series. But again, thank you. A senator for offering this very informative discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u29	Mr. President. I'm just gonna come into this discussion. A discussion of airports in the region is of great importance. A case in Húsavík is that by receiving the support of the local people, i.e. The labor office, for the start of a dejected flight, has made good use of the local population. There is much structure ahead, and it is obvious that there will likely be further and more use on the field. How important it is, then, that he is well cared for! That 150 million. K. - I hope they are enough to solve the problem of the field. We also need to look at more airports in our own districts in order to make good use of our money and wisely, including the wise way to handle it. Ness shop airport. It would be wise to correct it so that a medical flight could be directed there instead of always driving up at the Lamps with the patients back and forth. I'm glad there's some money in there, and I hope they're good for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and members of the council who participated in discussions for the participation. What I want to say to the question is this: a 20-foot tar roll, that's the course, and then this was a matter of security. Today, it is 7.5 m on each side. When a new track light is up, I don't know if it's 3 m away so that the safety area will be 6 m or 5 m away, so that the safety area will be 10; I'll get conflicting information about it. At any rate, the tribulation is greater than this. It also has to be remembered, more dignified President, that snowing is playing into, getting rid of football, it plays into this scene. I rejoice over the very things being done, on the one hand, in the way of the clothing, which was extremely urgent, and with the aerospace lights, their download through the safety area that is going to be. This is 200 billion. K. Once again, I want to make the distance compass and the hillometer a subject; I think it's the fourth council that I'm making it a topic of talk. The minister answered that earlier. And just to make it perfectly clear, because here the senators have talked about it, that the GPS that's been talking about is on the planes today. But that is not a substitute for the distance gauge and the tiltometer, that is the principle. These planes have it today, but that limitation is from 680 feet to 300, so let's keep that in mind. As soon as I'm happy for what's being done, I'd like to take this opportunity and ask the highest level. Minister of the state - if elections are made quickly, this may be the last time I ask about Húsavík Airport: Is it not true that when the claws and the runway lights are up, i.e. This year, it's going to be 50 to 170 million. K. fed to the missing devices? [[The president calls.]] Now this is a matter of principle, which came out of it; that the instruments were taken in part, and taken into parts. I can add one question, topv. President: Is it possible, for example, that such devices are being released in Keflavívík, a device that could be used on fire in a country?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u31	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to go any further than I did in my first answer and say that that's a very obvious thing. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator must understand that I am not going to promise anything about it, for an upcoming election period, how state money should be arranged. I'm sure there are others here who are more likely to do that than me, but they must. It's been a good discussion, and I'm taking it with me for a second. A senator said here at the end of the lighthouse, and so. In many ways, there are very technical issues he introduced, so I'm not going to get involved with it with my legal knowledge. Our internal system on the flight is in many ways a very remarkable system. We have a small airport all over the place. As a world of Congress knows, most of the country's shores have small airports, many of which have been decommissioned. Some have been getting back into use. We see this airport, which is now far from being one of these smallest, but an important airport, of course. You wonder what the trend will be in Iceland with this massive stream of tourists, etc. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson mentioned the first international flight. It may just as well be expected that people will see their advantage in flying from Reykjavík or Cheflavík in far more places than right now, and not only in distributing tourists by the highway system, which we complain a little about the need to put a lot of money into, but also by means of flight routes. I think there's a lot of potential for flying in the coming years, and we need to be creative about taking whatever opportunities there are. But in order to make it possible, we need to keep this airport in good shape. There are considerable investments we have here that we need to look to as we look at how we see organized traveling services in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u32	A respectable president. Methane fuels can be produced from all organic substances on the surface of the earth. In many parts of the world, methadone is produced in special organic waste factories from homes, agriculture, and other employment practices. So this is a good use and a very sustainable cycle. Remainings from this manufacturing process are then used for other products, such as application. An MS project carried out at the National Farmer University of Iceland found, among other things, that the quality of Icelandic cow hyperinflation was high if you take into consideration foreign data, but to achieve this production capacity would require many cow farmers. In 2006, only about 60 record trucks were in use in the capital area, which have been increasing and are now numbering in the second hundred. The government has cut down the tax price of cars that go precipitously to further their use, so it can be said that there is a very good opportunity there to put more emphasis on that use. In August 2014, a national conference on biofuels was held, among other things, by foreign scholars to assess a mixture of manure and grass. That is exactly what I ask. I'd like to direct them to the highest level of questions. Industrial and commercial minister how many companies are involved in the manufacture of methadone in this country, how many people operate at that job and how many of them live on the law in this country; what law the legislation on the production of methadone on the law and what fees the state made by such production, and whether the policy was developed for the increase of methadone production in this country. And if so, who can be legalized according to it? During the 2010 constituted a cross-cutting synopsis proposal for evaluable production, which included the conclusion of assigning the current government to promote increased and efficient evaluable production in the country and to look for cooperation with rural communities, individuals and legislators for that purpose. My request focuses mainly on how far we have reached the level of valuation in this country and what the main goals are for individuals on the law that are present in or want to go into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry on this matter involving transport energy exchange. We're high on schedule at the Ministry and the State Department. The Senator points to me five questions, and I have determined, that I may get over it all, to answer them one by one. First, it is asked how many companies are involved in the production of methadone in this country. So there are two companies who do, Sora and North power. The question is, How many individuals are doing in this country, and how many of them live on the law. In response, there are three individuals who work in the production of municipal waste, and in the North Energy workers are from production and payment of the estimates alone to one and a half. According to information from Iceland's Farm Association, the production of metallurgies at one farm is known. It's in Flea. It's called Testmaker. Asks which songs are valid for the production of metallurgies on the law. There are three laws that depend on that. First of all, there is law No. 55/2003, the management of wastes, and this legislation is subject to the Environment and Resource Ministry. Second, law No. 7/1998, the method of loyalty and pollution, and they are also under the Environment and Resource Ministry. This is an operation under these laws and regulations based on them. Third, it is law No. 40/2013, about renewable fuels to transport the country. They're in the custody of industrial and commercial ministers. If the production of the assessment is intended for transport in the country, these laws apply to the manufacture. Fourth, the government is asked for fees that collects the estimate production on the law. In terms of stress, eco-efficiency of law-making is done by other industry and industry, production is taxed as other occupations, and is therefore paid a income tax, a general value tax, etc. The question then is, Has there been a policy for the increase in the production of the estimate in this country and, if so, the potential level of legislation rests with it? It is to say that governments have not shaped the production of one type of fuel beyond that of others, but in all of our work we have a general technical neutrality in policy measures and measures; we, at the very least, allow the market itself to determine which technology is going to be on top. In recent years, however, governments have tried in various ways to contribute in general to transport energy change, including the interpretation of transport energy exchange by the 139th legislators'and the above law No. 40/2013, about renewable fuels to transport the country. I have had a fine success in these matters, and I refer, among other things, to a report I presented to the Council nearly a year ago, in June 2015, on transport energy exchange. The report was prepared by the Green Energy, a cooperative site on energy exchange. Drives that use estimating enjoy certain tax parks today, as administrated. I'd like to assume that the Department of Economics is responsible for the work being carried out as a whole over that matter, i.e. taxing on fuels, whether fossil fuels or other, car prices, etc. It's a full-time job. Based on the shape of a new policy, I'd like to assume that within the next few days, I'd like to propose a proposal here at the council for a new Council of Energy Change. This will include emphasis on the production of national renewable fuels, such as the estimate, and will provide a next year's operation plan. It's an ambitious plan of action, but it's realistic, and it's a collective way of handling these issues. At any rate, I hope to bring in the Congress resolution and order it and it would be best if we could handle it at this assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u34	A respectable president. Just a brief opening in this important discussion. I think the record is certainly better than oil and coal, and better, for at least a short time. However, it is important that we bear in mind that evaluating is not a universal solution for the long future in the environment. Certainly, it's good to evaluate that it can be produced here. It can be produced by using very good waste. It is a very important option, such as coal and oil, and it has its own to say. I don't want to reduce the importance of it. But if the estimate escapes the atmosphere, it can become very damaging for a long time, so we may want to view the estimate as a short - term way to get over to other energy sources in the coming decades until we can reasonably dispose of the oil and the curse that lacks it, and certainly too much of it, causing the environment. [[The president calls.]] Then I also want to keep it here, though I have no time, a respectable president, that the market cannot solve the problem that is climate change. We must do so on a political basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u35	V.E.G. President. I thank the advert for this important and needed discussion that has led to environmental and energy use. I'd like to mention a point I started to wonder about. In many parts of the world, microinvolves are still small. Farmers, people on the law, are about to activate on some level, become self - sufficient, and start loading their cars; individual farmers are doing so. I think that's a very positive step. Now that we are at the time of the year, we are filled with shit all over the country, I find it very exciting to think of the assignment in the South, look to it, and hope that we can find ways to use it. I know there's a lot of technical obstacles. But I could believe that we should take a closer look and think about how we could, even in cooperation, get involved in trying to use the resources that are certainly there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u36	Mr. President. That's a good one and need to be discussed. I've wondered about the conversation about the livestock contract that this should have been one of the things that should have been involved in the debate on energy exchange in agriculture and then with some incentive in these areas. The record is high on paper. As was the case with the reason. paritaprevir Egilsdóttir Egilsdóttir to rural areas. All of that is possible. It is very important to look at what you are doing in other parts of the North countries regarding the efficiency of estimate. It would be preferable that more towns in this country were united to make the most of it. As mentioned, an experiment is being made in Fóa, near the east of the mountain, using metals. It would be perfect for the government to continue working with agricultural schools for research and farmers, to develop ideas about the use of taxes on instruments and tools, and to associate farm contracts in a positive way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u37	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for her comments and thank the members of the council who participated in the discussion. But because of the highest. A minister mentioned transport energy exchange as well can also admit that assessment can also be applied directly to electricity production. So there are a number of possibilities that arise with increased production in the country. A minister admitted that in this country there was only one experimental home in these materials. A country where you've travelled through countryside is much more frequent in agriculture. Its use is good, including the cost for those living in divided areas. Since we talked about the fees, if this production is taxed, the question is, Why is there not yet a record like the highest level yet? The minister came in. The question is, could a discount be given to these experimental materials? There are ways in this country to stimulate methadone production. For one thing, it was held at the 2014 conference. I'm celebrating that very, very, very, very much. Minister said she would submit a new energy exchange programme for the next year; I will keep an eye on that plan and how it will be carried out. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's record came to the fore as a national fuel source, but there would be a huge currency in using national energy sources, fuel sources. We also discussed the dangers of assessing if it goes straight into the atmosphere, but as its use reduces the exposure to hazardous waste gases, the amount of dust and other undesirables that come from the cars we use today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u38	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. It's been fascinating. I'm ready, and the Ministry, to carry on with this case. In view of the recent discussion, it will be done in cooperation with other departments. The Ministry of Environment is clearly a partner in this, but also a colleague of mine at the Department of Employment, Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministers, has an obvious role. These issues are on the move; there are tremendous advances and technologies. We have this program, which I will contribute soon, set ambitionful goals. As an example, in regard to our fishing fleet, we are about to begin, in cooperation with the Marine Corps and the Icelandic New Energy, with an environmental competition for ships. It's gonna be interesting to see who gets involved. They're working on this in the innovation sector, the government, the green energy and the educational community, finding ways to sustain us with fuel, and enabling us to use domestic and environmental energy. I will continue this case and thank the captain for bringing this up here. I hope we can make things happen together.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u39	Mr. President. In fact, the request is getting a little old and sour, but it doesn't make any difference that it's good to take this conversation here to shift it from the expected number of people turning toward the air development fund. It contains a market development fund and a leading development fund. I went to the Market Office of Northern America and Air 66N, where these ideas were introduced at the time. So now I've agreed to contribute 170 million to this fund, and I'd like to think over with a minister of some questions in that relationship, except for the two people on the paper. The market development fund is designed to build up new ways, followed by the subsidies of the risk of building up a new route, as well as support for the marketing of the destinations. They're talking about 300 million. K. So for three years, the state sets in, and so does its pilot. I ask if it can be burdensome or how this works, whatever the situation is. It was set in the east, this has been at the East Bridge and the Marketing Office of Northern and Iceland. The international flight started where plans have only diminished. I'd like to ask what tickets there would be if it was the highest. A minister can inform us of this because it is also about the marketing of those in charge, whether it is the management center of travel, or whatever it is that needs to market the country in a different way than it has been. Then the locals need to be at the head of a formation. The main thing for me is to hear from Akureyri and Egls, and I'd like to hear from a minister how they're doing. If this is achieved with full force, we are talking about the ability to build a comprehensive brain - wound job in which workers live and pay an answer. We can take Lake Mice, for example, as an example and other places that have enormous potential for the bought labor of high-rescue time instead of being able to have an entire field of work in the area where busetan is present, children in school, etc. There is also the possibility that other jobs could benefit from this, including the following: Fish industry. In Akureyri and Davik is a powerful fish industry. This is a short time to settle this matter, but I'd like to ask the Minister about this, and I'd also like to ask about the transport balance of fuel if a minister knows anything about it, if we can see it coming too. [[The president calls.]] This is clearly one of the things that could ease the growth in those places.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u40	Mr. President. I thank the sponsor for this inquiry, which is only getting old, but it's not about me or a starter to blame that it didn't get on the program sooner. I agree it's very good to discuss these matters. I can tell you that recently I ordered control of the fund, so this work is started, but the situation is that of October 30. Did the government approve of assigning industrial and commercial ministers to initiate the establishment of these two funds, market development funds and destination funds, which we call a common air development fund? This is done on the basis of a committee appointed by the prime minister, and I can say that the project we are doing for the future is basically in line with the proposal made by the Committee. The goal of the fund is to support regular international flights through airfields other than Cheflavík. Thus, in all aspects of the fund's activities, we support our decision to travel in Vega in terms of the distribution of tourists over the country and the distribution of tourists over the country, throughout Iceland, throughout the year. As advising mentioned, this refers primarily to Akureyri and Eglices, at least. to begin with, and to build the agreement as I said on these proposals by the Committee. As a result, we went to my Ministry in cooperation with the Ministry of Economics and Economics over these proposals, where these are government grants. We need to be careful to follow the Kingdom Halls that we should follow on the basis of our cooperation in the European Economic Area. After that study, it was concluded that we could immediately prepare for this fund, where legal resources were provided to set it up, and in the budget plan 20173/42021, which has recently been proposed to be 300 million. K. Run a year for three years to run the fund. As I said, I have appointed seven men to rule. It appoints representatives of prime minister, financial and economic minister, members of the local community both north and east, Northland Marketing Office, East Bridge, Istavia, and Iceland. The director of the Board of Directors of Industrial and Business Ministers was so well-Valgerður to Valdön Rún Benediktsdóttir, a former Office director of my Ministry, who knows this case very well. We need to be like I said earlier to be in charge of European government rules and I thought it was very important that we leave and not wait to set this thing up, in view of a larger system we need to get approved right away from the ESA. In accordance with EU legislation on minor assistance, so-called demimis aid, we can give state concentrations of up to 200,000 euros, about $200,000 in the current range, to each recipient over three years. In cooperation with the fund's management board, we will be able to start with lower levels of money that we expect to consult with people who know these matters and have worked on this to help get this thing started. As a surprise, it has been a bottleneck that building a new destination is costly. The airlines don't do that unless they see the benefit of it. Therefore, it is well justified on these grounds, both based on local factors, as well as on the goals we have set for our tourism, to set up support systems to initiate this. We see this system somewhere else, including. in the more scattered settlements in Norway and this activity has been agreed by the ESA, so I think all the criteria should be the same here as there. As I say, the job is to get started these days, and while advertising and launching the project now, we're going to do the report to ESA about the bigger system that needs to be approved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers she gave. I was living in the committee that prepared this job and would like to say that the conclusion that we will be able to spread tourists throughout the country is optimistic. It is of utmost importance for the North and East to bring the tourist closer. We are faced with the fact that tourism is becoming the commercial means that yields the most remuneration in the state's budget. Hence, it is vital that this be fulfilled. I hope that in the coming years, we will see how much this structure is important to industry and the income we earn from tourists.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u42	A respectable president. I think it's very urgent to open up more portals into the country, and although we live in the Northeast, we see this as some kind of rural project, it doesn't always have to go to Reykjavík and Cheflavour Airport to get out of the country, it's getting very urgent because we have to spread the pressure of tourists more fully across the country. This still presents challenges, e.g. The cost of aircraft fuels more expensive in the country would have to be equal. Then you also wonder about the market in Iceland. I guess Iceland's Office has to make a little bit of scrawny in the marketing of more scattered tourist settlements. It's a good discussion, and I thank the proprietor for bringing this up. [[The president calls.]] It is a pleasure to know that the government is under control. I just met one of the directors at the airport this morning and we discussed this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u43	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and any who have made a note of it. Straight international flights are important, as are acceptable international flights, so I take it into this discussion. The direct international flight would also improve the situation of the international work, e.g. At the University of Akureyri and the Hospitals. There's a lot underneath, not just tourists. In our present day, we are primarily considering making better use of the interior and distribution of the stress, but this also increases the quality of our local life. For us who live in this area, it is wise to be able to fly directly from either Akureyri or Egress, not just from a job, i.e. About loss of work, or by increasing our eco-efficiency by traveling within the south to Cheflavík. This is important to us. A good report written by my partner Edward Huijbens and others from the Research Center for Tourism is very extensive, including: Northeast standard, i.e. From Sports to the Deepvogur and the Northland West, one of four such reports has been made, and the demand for a home market remains over 93,000 airports, provided that what is under and is considered reasonably modest. The potential demand at home would be some 23,000 seats, if we went very low, to fly to Copenhagen, as is said here, that a quarter of the population will be there. This is important to the local population, and it's important to the economy in these giant votes, e.g. The northeastern monasteries in these fields, and for the economy, this is of utmost importance when it comes to getting a straight flight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u44	A respectable president. I can agree with that with what. The foreman that this is an important project. It is important for many reasons, first and last, if we are looking at the construction of the tourism service as a whole - year work branch, as we see it here in the less significant areas south of the country, how much more so will this change for the economy in general but more so for the local community, as it is intended. This is a clear and specific objective that we have set to distribute to tourists. Now I speak as if this is some group that can be distributed at will, but, of course, it's not that kind of thing, but we have to do it in our markets and to draw attention like a dog. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir came in. That is exactly what this project aims to do. Hv. paritaprevir St Brynhildur's daughter, Pétursdóttir, also called attention to the show of an Iceland clinic, and I'm telling her that an Iceland lab at just the government's office in the fund so that we'll make sure everyone is sending the same message. In terms of flying costs, it is an important factor that has been identified. conducted in a report by the Prime Minister, who was brought to the attention of that dangerous competitive position. That's something we're having an inspection. Of course, the Ministry of finance is coming with us, but this is clearly one of the factors that the competition between the Keflavor Airport and the airport airports is going to have to be taken care of if we are going to succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u45	A respectable president. There have been reports that Hörður Þórhallsson, director of travel management, is quitting as the manager and saying in a report on the Ministry's website since 5 May, by permission of the President: It will go away to other jobs and the job of the manager will be advertised for application in the near future. I'm asking the highest. Minister: What is the situation in the management department? Does the Minister intend to advertise the post as announced? How does that become a recruitment process? Based on the estimated increase in tourists, could a minister inform you whether the management center of travel has intended to increase the number of workers or to face the pressures in particular ahead? On the same day that this was announced on the Ministry's Web, it was announced that the government's partnership with the Traveller's Association had been established. So, what's a partner enterprise like? Can Ministers inform us about the access of the state and the development of the Association of the Travel Service with that partner society? It doesn't come out, and of course I haven't been informed yet. This phenomenon, the tourist control center, is peculiar and was set up with a great trumpet blast. At the CP, there are no less than four ministers. In response to a question, what? paritaprevir On April 4, the Magnúsdóttir Rafney Islands of Magnústóttir reported that this Control Center, now in turn, found a major tourist attraction in Iceland last March 2. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether the committee, the Control Center, saw reasons for meeting, or its government, then. Finally, I think there is reason to wonder, in view of the fact that it is as if there is no solution to incoherentness in this task force at the highest level. Minister, on a project in progress says, this is in the management of the Management Board, that it is important to take urgent action to protect nature at diverse tourist locations and aim to take quick action so that when 2016 can be started on reassignment in multi-eldered tourist areas, destinations. A long-term strategy including assessing tolerability levels, etc. will also be developed together. Can the minister tell us whether these waterways are in the water or if they can be completed in view of the record here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u46	A respectable president. Thank you for your first request. I'll first answer my first question. The senator's explanation is that the management board has disappeared from its activities. As noted in the media, Hörður Þórhallsson's son has been offered another job. He accepts the job as the executive director of the pharmaceutical company Icepharma. We remember and, as always, have advertised the position. Þórhallsson's Hörður son had a contract for six months, and he explained to me that the situation would be advertised that he did not intend to apply for it because it had been offered to him. With regard to the management programme, travel centres have been, like, driving. A senator turned aside, being established as the management body of travel directors. Tourism - a driving station. A senator called the opposite phenomenon, which I find absolutely unnecessary, is a government, state, rural, and tourist organization. This is a form of cooperation and consultation within articles that has undeniably more contact areas than other employment projects have generally followed, and as a result, the policy process completed by the development of Vegas for travel services published in October of last year has been decided to set up this field for better harmonisation and to follow up on the basis of road design. This is costing half of the party of tourism and of the state, 70 million. K. Both. In this business partner, this is what a man could call, if I get to use the English language, by permission of a president, a stupendic-private partnership (U.S.) which has been given well in many and a variety of languages, especially since we need to have close cooperation between these parties with the project. We'll look to the countries we think it's best. The British use it a lot to set up cross-cutting cooperation in the government field, ◯whole of governance, so I returned to my English, a respectable president. We'll take it a little further. We take it at the scene of the state, the local society, and the actual article and we figure, and we already see it, are very effective in this work. Of course, I can't bear to protest that this was an act of inactivity or incomprehensibleness, or whatever the senator chose to call it, on our part of the jury. On the contrary, there has been an elevator. There has never been such an abundance of money to build up in mass - flung tourist areas before. There have been an increase of 1,000 percent in budgets during this terms to the seminary. If you're going to take it for a number of tourists, you can be sure that even if we take the increase with the increase, there is an increase compared to each tourist by 500 percent. The Senator asked about the improvements in multiplicity tourist areas where urgent measures are needed: Yes, we are on our way, with various measures, as well as the security issues that we have considered. The base's found four times. There was a meeting this April. I don't remember the exact date, but you can look it up. In between meetings, the Commission, along with contractors and colleagues and groups of consultations he has called to work hard to set up, work, and finish. All the priorities are on their way. [[The president calls.]] Many of them have completed, and others have taken a good turn.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u47	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers to their answers, as far as they could go. I would like to ask first, in order to follow what I asked earlier: What is the time line for the advertisement and the recruitment of the new Commission? Then I'd like to ask you what the experience is with the guide, what his position is, what the top is. Ministers believe that the guide and Management Board have yielded the expected results, the success of integrating to-dos, such as the highest level. A minister recognized and, of course, had expectations. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, because the Minister is responsible for a large litigation and a very growing lawsuit, i.e. Iceland's Department of Tourism: Are We Ready for Tourism in 2016? Are we ready for the revenue? Are we ready to make a safety issue out of the way? Are we ready for adequate infrastructure? Are we ready for a bathroom? Are we prepared for the factors acceptable to meet the total number of tourists this time? Are we ready, Mr. Honorable President? I'm asking the highest. The minister of these questions and ask for clear answers because if we are not ready for this time, it reflects nothing but openness, and responsibility is the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u48	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks about the time line on the advertisement. The work was advertised Saturday afternoon. I'll remember, and I'll hold on. A senator's apologies, if not correct, that it was a two-week appointment. The recruitment process is in the hands of a recruitment agency and will be in the management of the company, with the seat of a representative of the employment and innovation of the Ministry and the Management Board of travel services, having the recruitment process. Are we ready for the class of tourists in 2016, and what do we learn from this? I can say what. A senator on the experience of the roads, and the cooperation and willingness that have been shown in all the work that there were more than a thousand people directly involved in that policy, with over 50 meetings across the country so that the owners of this document are many. It's not some direction written in my office and people in town were to enforce, it's a policy we've agreed on, and it should have been done much earlier. We have worked hard not only to set up diagnostic work but also to prepare preparatory work, which must be done and reduced to the end the number of projects started. The Senator's asking for the security. Yes, we've taken action that may include. Everyone aims to ensure the safety of tourists in this country. We've put the extra money, as I said, in the building of wood. They're building a toilet, building the rails, setting up a facility in these spoken words all over the country. [[The president calls.]] So, yes, I say we work hard to see that the 2016 tourist industry makes us all happy, happy, and safe, and that we can happily continue to welcome tourists, who, according to the latest surveys, are very positive and claim to be content with their stay here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u49	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Education and cultural minister on the investigation of a monthly college student income. The subject of the inquiry was a report earlier in this semester on a study done in monthly incomes by the Social Science Institute of the University of Iceland, except at the University of Iceland. Since that news was published and I submitted this inquiry, not only university students at Iceland's University but especially students abroad, there have been quite a few discussions in this hall, and some comments were made about the proposed changes in the distribution guidelines for the next year's credit of the Icelandic students. But I would like to speak to the highest. A minister on the big lines in these cases, since the student council survey showed that a month's income was dropped by 30% in the last ten years. The study was conducted for the School Board of Social Sciences. Then she was compared with a similar survey from 2004. It shows that if the student's monthly income in 2004 - if his income remained and were calculated from 2004, what would they be in 2014? Yes, they should be 318,000 bucks. But 2014, the real income was down to 218,000. So there's a hundred thousand. or 31%. The news was discussed with the chairman of a student council for this reason, which points out that the survey also shows that students are taking a small loan more and more than ever, that 60% of the students took overgrads. We all know that it is not the most practical loan that can be taken. I'd like to put this into the context that the interest of young people in Iceland according to the information we have from The Habitat is getting worse, or the income is dropping. For example, young people 24 years of age and younger had dropped less than 37,000 dollars. the average month between the turn of the century and 2014. Of course, these are not just students. They are also young people at work. However, it is important to consider that while the income of all other age groups has increased during that period, young people, aged less than 24 and old, have become weighed down with a concern for us who want to look forward to the future. There students must be most desirable. Ministers have proclaimed a new bill to legalize the Icelandic loan Fund. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How will he react to the numbers that show a constriction in student income in about 30% in ten years? [[The president calls.]] Does he picture solutions in a new bill as a guide for the Icelandic loan fund? Will we expect to be treated with the progress of students in Iceland in the near future?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. First, I'd like to reflect on the statistics of the Social Science Association but on the page. Thirty-nine says, with permission from the President: ▪ When students' income is compared with students' income in the 2004 survey, it says that their average income has increased by 60,000. or about 38% in the past ten years while the index has doubled at the same time. This amounts to an income of about 100,000 dollars. Lowers in price of 2014◯ - as shown in picture No. 13 of the document - ◯ When a student's salary since 2014 has been calculated based on an index. When you look at the index, it is based on your salary. I would have thought to try to figure out the value, i.e. whether income has held its value as a cognizant. A senator asks about, but it's not normal to aim at the salary. That's the price tag. I don't really understand why they put it this way. The pay sheet has increased from 245 points to 494 points, but the price balance during this period has increased by 79%. There's a difference. Therefore, it may be interesting to examine the figures in this regard. But that's different. The right is as reason. A senator, though, points out that this may be especially appropriate, that we need to respond and discuss the situation of young people. The so - called generation accounts that help us to determine the status of the generations, different groups, suggest much that the situation of young people today is less than that of the previous ones. In fact, this is true in many European countries today, quite widely. I'm not gonna say it's everywhere, but in many places, the economic situation of young people is worse now than their parents. I'm sorry. What we can do is primarily promoting employment that affords the opportunity to pay. The question, though, is: Is education valued as a reward? The fact is that in Iceland there is one of the least difference between the wages of those who are educated and those who are not educated within OECD. You see, both of them will not be released and kept. On the one hand, the least difference between those who have the lowest salary and who have not educated themselves and those who have then taught with emphasis on increases in the lowest salary, which means that this means less education is paid. On the other hand, the goal of paying well for education would be to increase the pay range. It's hard, but that's the way it is. For the direct answer to a question why. A senator as to what I intend to do in these matters is that, first of all, we want to take a closer look at the statistics in this case because reliable information on the economic and social situation of Icelandic university students is of limited value. I'd like to say that we've decided that Iceland will be involved in the Eurostdent Community poll for the first time. Such a survey has been conducted seven times in Europe, but we have it now. It goes to financial and family university students. It was sent out to college here on May 3, 2016. The first results should be ready in the fall of 2016. But comparison with other European countries did not appear until 2018. So it takes time to process this. As for the loan loan bill, the situation is that I hope that a bill will pass through the government and enter the council in the next few days. It's ready and it's been for a few hours. This has been cost - consuming and, of course, has taken time. It is a complicated bill and, as it were, can be understood that it takes time for the Ministry of Economics to earn it. But that's where we're looking, as I've said in the past, in public, the Northland academic loan system. However, I would like to mention, and given the reason that in recent years we have been gradually raising the advance of college students in Iceland. Hv. A senator well knows that the share we've been borrowing has been too low and we've been pushing ourselves up lately. But we need to get higher. It is an old and new problem, and we hope that in the near future we will be able to take bigger steps. That's where we're going. This may be the two things I especially want to say about it as a dog. A senator has asked me what I intend to do. On the one hand, I hope to get the bill on the loan fund in here and then we'll be able to discuss it and how that bill will affect the level of students. [[The president calls.]] It is premature for me to discuss it here now, wait until we have that discussion. And, however, what I mentioned about getting more information on the matter so that we can be more aware of this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u51	A respectable president. This is a very important discussion we're taking, and I could talk about it for hours. But there is one thing I would like to draw special attention to when talking about calculating the progress of students, that is, how LIN calculates housing progress. It's only based on the students' gardens, but, as people know, they should be public witnesses, the students' gardens have limited space, and the students parks are not at market prices. So if you only get 75.937.5 jars. a month for eight months to provide for your own housing and not enter the students' gardens, this will do you a very high dose. So there is a prerequisite for calculating the loan. As far as I know, a student's loan should be considered a student's salary, and hence it would be all right to compare it with a pay sheet. But if it's the highest. A minister has a different view, of course, when he is welcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u52	A respectable president. I must express my frustration by the highest degree. The minister spends a small portion of the short time that he has to gossip about the indicators to use in this regard. The problem needs to be addressed. And I'm also going to express my frustration that he starts talking about pay ratios. The problem is, pay in Iceland is generally too low. That is what any responsible politician is going to try to do. To raise pay in the country. Why do you have to pay in Iceland too low, a respectable president? It's because there's something wrong in this country. That's wrong. Those who catch the fish in the sea, those who own the companies, those who have it, they raise a lot of profits and profit, and they get nothing, the welfare system goes down while taxes are dropped on those with very high income. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u53	Mr. President. Of course, collecting more data is positive. But I don't think anyone in this room should hide that the situation has become quite heavy for the young generation today. We can see this in Haguems' numbers, and it takes no special space scientist to see what they think. Of course, these are the housing issues that weigh very much for young people, i.e. to enter either a special property market or a very difficult tenure. It is the fact that child - welfare has gone downhill, and that is a big issue for young people. There is a serious situation in obscenities that also affects young people. Then there's the highest language party. Ministers who are involved in student loans or scholarships. We are seeing, according to the Social Science Association survey, that one - third of college income is less than it was in 2004. That is not only to the loans, for we also know that the majority of those students are trying to earn money in some other way, which is not necessarily the preferred condition, i.e. that students are working as hard as they really are. We can also see this on the indications of young people'debt. All of this is important; birthworm, housing, child - welfare, and then the loans or scholarships that should be. As I said, it's positive to collect data, but we certainly have data on what nations we compare with other countries in the North. That is where Iceland is less than the North countries when we look at how this welfare system is built up. In terms of my question, of course, I'm excited to see a bill at the top. Minister to, hopefully, reform of the Icelandic student's loan fund. But I finally want to ask the highest. Minister: On the basis of the established government standards for how to support themselves, we see that the advancement offered by students is far below the progress that governments have recognized as the need to sustain themselves. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Don't you have to go to this case and raise your progress, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u54	A respectable president. When you ask for action, it is possible that in 2013/2014, the school year, the payment loan was a quarter of a quarter of a quarter of a million dollars. but it is now up to about 1,72,000,173,000. from the fact that this report is being prepared. So it's increased by over 20,000 bucks. During this term period, which is, in fact, considered in the historical context, quite a rise. Actually, it doesn't reach all the way, certainly. But this only changes the picture from the report. This increase has occurred, I think it should be kept in mind, a respectable president. I reiterate that when a bill of Icelandic students' credit card comes up for this discussion, we will discuss these matters in this context. I know that we all agree that we would like to ensure that the generation to take over the task of running this community is as low as possible and as best qualified to carry out that assignment. A respectable president. I cannot help but respond lightly to the comments. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir died about a chicken case in Iceland. So all those who have observed their issues know that the reference is quite high on paper, i.e. they compare themselves between pay categories, between professions, between related professions, etc. This is the lesson everyone knows about dress issues in Iceland. If one rises above anything, other groups are included, so to speak. Then there is the problem, and the fact is that there is the least difference between those who are educated and those who are not educated, or one of the least, within OECD and here in Iceland, if not least. [[Up front.]] That means that as soon as we solve it and raise the pay of intellectuals to pay fairly for their education, there is a difference. [[The president calls.]] There's a difference. I would have thought, a respectable president, that this is inevitable and cannot be disagreed with that conclusion. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is only thought - provoking if a person is able to disagree.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u55	...concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u56	Mr. President. I've submitted two queries to the highest level. Minister with regard to the situation and future of the Greenland Fund. At one time, in 1980, the Institute for Greenland was a very important step that led to significant communication between the European and Greenlandic nations in many cultures. The case is mine and the highest. A minister's duty is because both of us, in our separate ways, have established a wide variety of relations among the nations. Both of us have promoted the art of chess by trying to promote the fine contribution established by the French Society and by the people of the world. At one time, they enjoyed action, just as there were other developments that were going on between the two nations, support from the Treasure of Greenland. But there is something else. It is not out of work, not because it is money - free, but because rules about it are extremely vague, and there is no one who is responsible for the way in which money is to be raised. Today, I think there's a million and a half million in the fund. K. It is in the possession of the Federal Bank, and there is no law in the 1980's that makes a special contribution to the Federal Bank to ensure that there is a more efficient yield and, of course, a maximum growth of the best in this matter. This has resulted in my failure to do so in the last few years, or all the streets from a crisis, from a bank collapse, that some had come from this fund to strengthen this relationship. In the United States, there is great interest in promoting cooperation with Greenland. Rather, it takes place in many areas. Hv. paritaprevir For example, Konráðsdóttir Konsá's daughter, for example, has lifted up her strength to strengthen the Western Council, where she has particularly stressed lifting and strengthening the interests of Greenland in her two sister nations. During this assembly, a group of members of Parliaments have made a very thorough suggestion to promote this cooperation in 15 successive teams. There is every indication that the suggestion is to achieve a great deal of solidarity that will lead to her approval at this council. There, the Treasure of Greenland is intended to play a significant role, especially in the areas under the highest standard. Minister. So I have allowed myself to ask questions. Others lie to the highest level. A minister intends to seek approval with a new law on the Treasure of Greenland. That question may be self-reproved; I came across a bill for review, an excellent bill, but not flawless. The second question, though, concerns the way the fund has been produced and how much money has been distributed during the terms of the budget. [[The president calls.]] By doing so, of course, I use facts that appear in reply to the highest degree. A minister to help him see that the situation in these matters is not good. A humble minister must draw the blood to the duty.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u57	A respectable president. A bill to a new law on the Treasure of Greenland has been in the Department of Education and Culture forum since the fall. Dr. Jones that the bill has been provided for introduction on the Department of Education and Culture website since May 12th. Idle to enter the notes and comment to June 1. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator here says that no bill is flawless, like any other man's work. But I hope, provided for myself. The general approval of a variation, that it is possible to settle the matter, that any comment, and the use of bait and the lack of food, will be cut off in case of an incident. Committees and conferences here at the council. Actually, the bill is relatively small, just five articles. However, changes in the current fund laws are absolutely essential for the development of material resources. A respectable president. I now find out why these adjustments need to be made so that the funds there can be used to care for all the fascinating and exciting projects. A senator turned into a subject of publicity. Despite the weight of Greenland's capital of about 63 million. K. has not been funded for strength since 2011. This is why it is the current law on the Greenland Fund, no. 102/1980 is made up. According to Article 5. The law can only supply 9/10 parts of interest, but since 2010 there has been little and no or even negative growth rate and thus cannot be strengthened. This is how the legal environment stands. That's why it's important to change these laws. I'm counting on a team or something. To provide all the support that can provide for the bill to pass through and become legal, it is possible to make use of this budget. Hv. A senator wanted to know how much money was in the Greenland Fund, where and how it was the fruit, and how much money was distributed during the election season from the fund. I've actually answered this here, but I'd like to make it clear that according to the 2014 Greenland Fund annual accounts, his head seat in Danish was over 2.9 million. K. or $ 61,667,706 in English. The yield was 297 Danish crowns, or $1654 U.S. dollar. In 2013 the principal chair was also over 2.9 million. A dollar a year, whether in Danish or in U.S. dollar, was the product of a dollar, and of course it is in the language. Iceland's secret bank, which handles the fund's income, preserves it in a Danish currency account. Is that done? I suppose that's because of 4. A current fund law from 1980, which has previously been turned into the law, is a source that says, by permission of a respectable president: The funds of the fund can be obtained and obtained by other sources - and I reiterate to a green currency. Greenlandic currency is as it is known. Since its beginning, the late bank has used this law, but since collapse the quality of the fund has been very poor. As a result, no funds have been distributed from the fund since 2011. In this way I believe that I have made quite an explanation for the nature and circumstances of this case but would like to say, and agree with the former supreme. A minister I know that during his Prime Minister's reign, this legal class had special attention, that it is a reason for us Icelanders to cultivate a very close relationship with the Greenlandians, to trust and secure it, both for our own sake and for theirs. I mean, we make a lot of money on all cultural cooperation, of course, both nations, but we're also supposed to build a good economic partnership. Tremendous opportunities wait in Greenland, which we Icelanders and I can do well so that both the economic and cultural cooperation of these countries can be furthered for the good of all. I think that's true, as a matter of fact. A senator here pointed to, at ease. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konsásdóttir has done a good job in the area of the Westnoric Council. I think it's a good way to handle these matters here at the council. That's why I'm not worried that the bill won't be fixed as soon as it's in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u58	Mr. President. In itself, I have nothing else to do in these halls than to try to push here against the prime signs of the minister I consider most important. From my point of view, this bill is very high. So I think it's important for the Minister to be able to measure for the bill and do my part to make a variation of it, but then I think that there should be a clear way through the council. Now it's been told. There's a problem that I know of. I'm not gonna talk about them here. But it's easy to take them off. The little birds will always be the first in the fields. It is clear that this small fund has completely been forgotten within the Penitentiary. This is a natural disaster story, and the Federal Bank to the extreme disqualification; listening to it here at the highest level. A minister has determined how this fund's yield has been brought to nothing. In fact, coincidence has resulted in 20 years in the administration of another fund that has a little more to play than this fund. He has also gone through a crumbling; bank collapse, temporary failure, leading to a lack of fruit. Nevertheless, the profit of that treasure has been in order that he has always been able to make a few million dollars each year. If we look at the reliable and risky investments of some pension funds, such as the Free Pension Fund, we can see that such production would lead to a similar growth of more than double the amount expressed on the bill. Ministers every year. It takes between 3.5 and 5 million. K. to these actions. [[The president calls.]] I think it's important to the highest. Minister, please represent the case. We, fans of the Greenland organization in these sales, will make sure that it will not be out of the disaster that at times will fail here in spite of the springtime.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-23-116.u59	A respectable president. Thank you so much. A senator for bringing this matter to his attention and on the bill so important that he can pass through here to unleash the funds that are there. Certainly, it is not a large or large amount of money, but it is, like a crown. A senator correctly points out, important, and can make a big difference in the work men see fit to attack to strengthen and strengthen the relationship between Iceland and Greenland. Of course, it is quite special to see the fruitage of this fund and to think about what it has been like. But that is, as it were, something that is hopefully in the past and not on the contrary. It is important to make sure that there is normal fruitage on this fund, looking forward to it. And then, a normal part of it, the profit, or interest, is taken to divide. It may well be that they do not want all the growth and try to build the fund more, making it more powerful in time. Then there's something wrong. At that time, members of the Parliament can take their stand. But I still want to add to the fact that I am making a great contribution for Iceland in our partnership with the Greenlandians, and actually the entire Western partnership is extremely important, both between the countries within the Western and also important, when we're working together at the scene of the Northern Council, that we provide these countries with power and control in various aspects of the affairs they're running within our common area, in the Northland council. Several of the things that turn to our foreign policy, I believe, can be used. [[The president calls.]] Even if it's not big, it's important. That's why I really agree. paritaprevir In this regard, Össur's Skarphéðinsson.
