ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u1	V.E.G. President. I recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee (EC) that changes the bill for the management of CINs that depend on the specific restrictions. This committee has discussed the matter in detail this weekend and has brought up some of the visitors listed in the committee's opinion and not a reason to list them specifically. This bill is part of the government's budget for the release of capital waste. The main objective of the bill is to clearly distinguish national property so that the next step to the release of capital waste will be made possible and a free foreign exchange can be restored without the threat of financial stability and money stability. The main element of the bill is the committee opinion, which I refer to. The key factors and those that may matter most are our commitments and whether these actions match the constitution and commitments we have. The financial oceans followed the fall of 2008. Since then, creditors have actually accepted considerable restrictions on the provision rights of their money. There are many laws that have been burdensome, and throughout the time, based on the need for this to be based on the public interest. The majority of the committees feel that it is clear that from the fall of 2008, governments were right and obliged to take action like these to protect public interest. This bill's contents continue to include limitations in the provision rights of the owners of these funds. Of course, the owners enjoy the protection of the Constitution's rights. Therefore, it is important that the regulations being done in the bill are clearly done in the law. Off-country owners are clearly defined in the bill. It is also quite clear that there are significant public interests at stake, since it is known that if these building materials can be taken care of if emissions on the seas are achieved, it will have a significant impact on Icelandic society. There is a risk of a gang crash with regard to the interests of families and a considerable number of households. But it is also important in this bill that we do not have to go beyond what is necessary. The average value is maintained, and it is expected that tens of thousands of donations can be sent out, thus receiving a currency for the Offensives. There's nothing to do with it. On the other hand, if people choose not to participate now, the property is not missing, it is not taking away from humans, it remains on the limit. This is a very mild way, with a moderate view, so that more of the committee, probably all of them, feels that it is well within the rules mentioned here. These views are more and less so in the committee's opinion, and I'm not going to go through it in detail. The committee suggests a slight change in the 9th paragraph. the bill where the words were to come right after the words of 1 mgr. It seems that at the end of the document, it has fallen away and is corrected in the committee's opinion. The majority of the committees also consider it unlikely that a maximum of the individual activity according to Article 3. 12th ...................................................... at baseline, since there is no amount of efflux available if the warrant is such a bed. So the majority of the committees feel that it is right to step carefully to the ground and suggest that the budget will be transferred to 1,000,000. which will be able to revise later when there is more knowledge about the size or sum that may be involved. In addition, the majority of the committee contributes to that change of 27. The bill, which includes the alteration of the currency law, means that the funds that are ablocated by a limitation of 9 p.m. The bill will be completely excluded from the restrictions due to the capital flotation. So the committee suggests that 2 and 3 mg are referred to. 13th par. b to D- team 27. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st Following these words, the'samomen' in 1st. Count 9. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. 2. Instead of ◯6,000,000 k.◯ at 3 mg. Section 12. ........ 3. Following the words, at 1st and 5 mg, there are bans to bans. d-tes 1. Figure 27r. Come on, 2nd and 2nd. Under this view, President Frosti Sigurjónsson, Director Brumes Níelsson, Generator Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, Lady Sævarsdóttir Savars, Sigríður Á. Andersen, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u2	Mr. President. It's very complicated, I'm not talking about for us who aren't sitting on the pro board that's about it. It's also very important. In that light, I feel quite thorough at what I am doing. A senator and an executive should run over all the key reasons why this bill is in harmony with constitution and international commitments and is merely referred to by the committee. I had come here quite before a meeting just to read the committee opinion, but it wasn't about 30 minutes before a meeting began. At least I can see through my fingers at what? A senator on that matter. What interests me is that I support the bill. I believe that there is a long way to reach the goals it is to reach, but of course I'm a bit terrified of whether the equipment is correct. It is important for me to have full confidence that there are no issues to various aspects of the Constitution. It takes e.g. Meeting the European Convention, as well as the regulations of 65th. The Constitution for equality. When you read the bill and the opinion of the committee, it turns out that the balance is met by the passage that among those who have foreign property and who are foreign lawyers they are Icelanders. If judicial action is involved, it must strengthen our position to prove it, and that makes me feel halfhearted in this bill that there is no particular emphasis on the fact that Iceland's assets are not to be revealed. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he doesn't feel that increasing emphasis would strengthen Iceland's position if we had some kind of legal problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u3	V.E.G. President. No, I don't think it's important if we land before the courts because of the problem. A senator spoke of discrimination, and there he stressed a person's social value. We do not know who are the real owners of all these deportations. That may not be the point. The key point is the kind of property that will be removed from the seas. Therefore, I do not count it any discrimination that violates the international covenant or constitution because it applies to all the crowns that are well defined. Therefore, I am not anxious about this matter. This is a general operation for all who have these defined assets. I would be much more concerned if it was just about what color they were or of what nationality they were. It's not that. The objective is clear, the interests are explained, the bill is clear in a clear definition of what is being done and is not going beyond what is necessary. Therefore, I feel that we need not worry about judicial matters over this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u4	Mr. President. Only then will I be really worried about him when he says he's not worried about this. Nevertheless, we do know that this case has been in preparation for so long because people have wanted to go around playing games that there are no parties on the bill. As I said earlier, I find myself in a peculiar situation of discussing committees that I have not seen. I had no way of seeing it because it wasn't ready for a meeting, and I was waiting for it to happen. paritaprevir Brynjar of Níelsson's son, or head of the committee, made good use of what I consider to be the key factors. You could say that he did it against me and as I understand why. A senator is saying that it does not matter who is a owners but, rather, is the nature of the possessions of these materials. However, I was able to prepare for this discussion by reading the opinion of Davíð, son of Þór Björgvinsson, who has served in Iceland in the European Court of Human Rights. He was worried about it. And then I am worried that the former president of the law society is completely at ease over the outcome. It is quite clear, or it seems to be, in the opinion of Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son, that the fact that among the foreign lawyers who own property in the Secret Bank here at home may be Iceland's argument that can help Icelanders. That's how I understood it. The former legal director, however, feels differently, but I feel the same way as the judge sitting in charge of Iceland in the European Court of Human Rights. That's why I'm saying, Iceland's case has to be strengthened if we have a picture of it and some real information about how many Icelanders have and how much they have on their banks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u5	V.E.G. President. I don't know how well you're doing. paritaprevir Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson has read the opinion of Davíð, son of Þór Björgvinsson. It seems to me that Davíð is in every detail agreeing with me in this matter - yes, yes, and even so. Even if so, as perhaps before the committee, it would also be because the objective, as it were, is clear as to which property is involved. [[Me too.]] In this case, it would not be an indirect discrimination, as is sometimes mentioned in this study, because of the nature of this operation. Neither I nor Davíð, Þór Björgvinsson's son, can I say, are especially anxious about this. The biggest problem, and what probably delayed the production of this bill, is that men had to be careful about average behavior, not going beyond the need, and taking good care of it. That is different from what many have said who have participated in the discussion, especially today, and declared on Facebook, having some opinion that we haven't gone far enough, that all of this was vultures, bought on Slugs, etc. We cannot afford to look at such things. Never can we allow ourselves to go beyond what is necessary when there is limitations in property rights. That's what you're looking out for in this bill, and that's why it took longer, i.e. Which way was it to avoid going too far?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u6	Mr. President. I recommend to members of the Committee of Economic and Business Committee that is signed and signed by this committee. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, an officer of the Economic and Business Committee, agrees with that. Perhaps the above discussion describes the situation in which we senators are in. The bill was submitted on Friday, May 20, of the highest. Secretary of the economy. This is a complex, technical matter and is about how we deal with property that is to be handled with the specific limits, so-called continental property. This is part of the government's budget for the release of capital waste. The bill was first introduced to representatives of groups other than the board of directors the day before, Thursday, May 19, and it was introduced to a so-called, and I mean a so-called Advocation Committee. Why do I say so much? Yes, it can not be claimed that the committee was included in this bill. It is not possible to argue that there is a possible option to review other options that have been identified by the removal of the off-country property from the economy. Therefore, it can be said to be a symptom of this procedure, such as any other action at the current level. Governments on hold, that there has been little or nothing, the opposition to government, and we are discussing a huge case. We are talking about possessions of 319 billion dollars, 15% of GDP. Although only for this reason, I felt compelled to make a special effort, for I feel overwhelmed by the constant call for some modified and improved practice that this is the way we are being offered. I'm not asking that we really spend a lot of time in a councilroom discussing this matter. I'm asking for proper consultation on a matter that we all have said has been willing to resolve, and we're all willing to resolve. I can't really say that I like this presentation, but it's not surprising that this is the way it's been all that time. This is property of about 15% of GDP and it is important to remind me that this problem was even greater immediately after a crash, and at the induction of capital crisis, this magnitude was approximately 41% of GDP Those with my opinion on the committee can look at an excellent picture taken from the World Bank's last year's review of financial stability, showing how this scale has been reduced, making it easier for them to do so. However, there is sound evidence to suggest that if we agree that the public, business and pension funds should be relieved, the problem needs to be handled in a specific way and, in fact, it has been a guide since the first published plan for reinventing in 2011. On the other hand, I again remind of words promised. Those promises have not been fulfilled, and I'm sorry. It is difficult to evaluate other possibilities, such as taxation on these assets, when we are given 48 hours to solve this case, especially in view of the fact that government officials were very important at the beginning of the term, both that there would be a lot of consultation and that this case would take a short time. I only review in the opinion that the ban was required to take six or nine months at the beginning of the terms of the term. We must not forget that although this is a indeed a breakthrough, it is now 2016, and although we accept this bill afterwards, the Icelandic public will still be in the seas, including Icelandic companies and Icelandic pension funds. Back of the list. That's the way it is. I also show that there are a number of aspects of this final solution that are not expected in the 2015 presentation program. Then, in the autumn of 2015, this funeral was expected before the swellings have dropped from the seas, which has now been reversed, and I would have thought it would have been good if we had had had the time to determine if the pressure on the owners of the land was reduced. Actually, it was not time to evaluate that question. I agree with the viewpoint as a matter of course. paritaprevir The armory of Níelsson's son crossed over and showed up in a committee list the greater part that it is normal to add specific limits and rights to the interests of the public. This was well considered by Davíð, the son of Þór Björgvinsson, who had previously been returned to the Ministry. I believe that the evidence there is convincing and based on it, like the whale. A senator went over earlier, saying that the definition is clear about the property itself, not necessarily their owners. That's what I think. However, I'd like to say that there are many other things I believe had to do with this matter. It may first mention action against the wax - crumbling trade that was linked to the 1st. about this bill. We know of a new problem that is now building up nearly 100 billion and that can have a major impact on stability. To cope with this problem, likely action is required, either in the form of binding or taxation. I suppose that calls for further legal adjustments, and all I can see is that we're not going to be able to control the public, business and pension fund until these cases have been resolved. I would have thought it normal that we would discuss them together on this matter, in a cross - political discussion. Then there's a big point to consider: There is nothing known about the real owners of national property, as I have asked after several times in the conference hall. However, it was informed at the Committee's meetings that sources for the Federal Bank on the tenders of this tender invitation would be expected to obtain such information with the aim of providing this information to the tax authorities and others, without affecting the invitation itself. While the official objective of this operation is to ensure balance and stability, it is worth considering that this is a national issue where the owners of these assets are going to be allowed out of the country without real knowledge of their property. Finally, I would like to say that I agree with various viewpoints in the leading section, the above and, indeed, others, that the matter was handled as well as possible at the brief time given to the committee at that point. A chairman, Sigurjónsson Sigurionson, yet I did not trust to support the case after not having more time to go over it than I can say. The operation will have to be merely aware of the responsibility of the government, but in fact, there is considerable disappointments as to the extent of achieving this primary objective that we have most of us have said we have agreed on which emissions have taken place in the public, company and pension fund in Iceland, which has now been headed for eight years and will still have to wait for further action to be needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u7	A respectable president. I have the same complaint as that. Senator, the time we have to resolve this matter is very short. Of course, I understand that there are grammatical reasons for taking the matter through the council quickly; however, the lack of consultation makes it difficult to give the matter the treatment that such an important matter should be given. Although there have been three reviews on this subject, I expect to have known that the matter was coming and that some of it was possible to prepare, even though there is also a complaint about the hurry. One person outside the community I would've wanted a review from is a Persian protection. 14th degree. The bill is required to monitor the National Bank. I remember that in the economics of the so - called first summer party I was here to work, the seminar was given, including and on my part, that as soon as they were allowed to gather information, they wanted to go further. At that time, the Secret Bank itself wanted comparable sources from the Habitat so as to make its entire ship of gloom. It's all right, you see, because information is useful, it's like an institution that the Navy wants to have access to information. That's the whole problem, that's why people want information. I wondered if there was anything about a collection of information in Article 14. in the Committee, whether the first or the second paragraph of this article, as well as the understanding of the matter. The senator is on that article, i.e. especially how far it should go. In my opinion, the law is very broad. I understand the article so that it defended only the supervision necessary to enforce these laws. I think it is very important that at the high Council it is clear that the warrant is limited to what is necessary to enforce the legitimate goals contained in this bill. I wish for a sense of what? A senator can afford it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. It's a very good comment for a senator. It sheds light again and again on the time map under this issue. This article was not specifically discussed with the committee. There were no reviews that specifically covered the point. A senator asks about. Of course, it would have been desirable for us to have taken the time to discuss it. But I'm going to say that it is my understanding of the article that this surveillance warrant, which is very rich, solely defended the implementation of these laws. Although it would have been good to receive reviews from Persian protection, such as at the beginning of the year. A senator points to my view, others before. The members of the Committee can come up here if they disagree, that it is our understanding on the committee that this surveillance authority is restricted to the implementation of these laws only in the light of the introduction of this article. The directive is so traceable to that sentence. I can't understand this any other than that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u9	A respectable president. I suppose this article can continue to be discussed, even if it becomes a law. As to the Constitution, I believe that, in accordance with the purpose of the law, it will last in its constitution, but it would be very good to have the authority of the community that should be given such comments specifically. Besides, it is not only a constitution that we need to worry about, but also a personal protection law, and it is very important that legislation is in harmony with both. I have the same understanding as what I do. A senator who feels that this is important. In time, I also feel that it is important that we deal with these matters when it comes to meeting important issues, that all of us are aware of what we are doing. Information is important, and that is why institutions in general want to receive as much authority as they can, of course, provided they are under law and constitution. That is why it is very important that we be on guard against information in the law in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u10	Mr. President. I come here primarily to say that I agree. Senator. It is always a tendency to collect information, often beyond material and reasons. There is good reason to review it when we make important laws. I reiterate my understanding that these sources are strictly relevant to the implementation of these laws, but it would have been good to review them better on the scene of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u11	President. It must be a common job for all political parties to get us out of their currency or capitalists. The first strategy in 2011 was published. Taking up the currency lords is a requirement for this to continue the major project that began right after a crash, to build up the economy, and to continue building it up so that it will continue to be built. It is urgent to create a society in which young people want to live here, not view it as a wonderful vacation place, and prefer to live elsewhere because it is better to build their own farms, educate their children, and become sick. Therefore, it is of utmost importance that the currency lords, capitalists, be lifted, so that we can continue to build the economy and create a good society. A major step was taken in the disposal of the currency pantheon when the bank's demanding farms were set up, which were established in March 2012 as head of currency. We in the United States have learned what we have been able to best support the actions of this government in order to eliminate the currency lords. We feel that it is our duty. We agreed on the stability tax Act last year. However, we overlooked changes in income tax laws that paid for forced contracts with the demands. This was because all the information on the stability process was very cloudy and opaque. Hence, we do not rely on that legislation, and it has later been found that there was good reason for suspicion as to why the government disappeared from the stable tax and put emphasis on paying for emergency contracts by changing the income tax laws. We sat by that change. All I can see is that all that really matters is on tables in terms of these legislation here. Like others, it's hard that we don't have information about who are the owners of those assets that we're going to deal with in accordance with specific rules. The commission made it clear that they had been trying to get all the information about it, but they have not been able to do so, and they have been sought various ways, and they have even used the tools that include them. This is what the F.O.B. has to do with it. I'd like to say that I don't think any government would care what they were dealing with, it didn't change that this information could not be obtained. Then it has to be appreciated. Is it not to know this exact reason not to support this important operation? I don't think so, even if I think it's poetic. I'd like to state that as shown in a case or two. paritaprevir St. Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was explained to the committee that if requested, the money supply from the Secret Bank is conditioned to inform the real owners. It matters. It's a very complicated bill, but there's a lot of weight in it. First of all, the definition of national property is defined. Although we have long talked about national property, they have not been defined, and here it is defined what properties they are likely to look out of the country if the currency heads are to be lifted, thus jeopardizing the financial status of the country. That's the definition. That's why we're making these laws. There is a danger that these assets may come out of the country and put everything upside down here. Second, if I say this in very gross terms, then instructions are given on how to handle the residual property remaining when the Huns Bank has finished. But the currency market has been, as we know, planned for some time. When we discussed the changes in income taxation during the winter, we were always spoken of as if the currency supply would take place in the first months of this year, but we are now at the end of May. I'm going to believe that the delay was because the men were preparing, that the experts who are first and last responsible for the job on this bill were doing the best they could, and that took longer. It also appeared in the discussions here before Christmas, and I agree perfectly with it, that, of course, there's a little sour in violation that we go to a currency tender before we can open up for the public or Icelandic company. Of course it's sour in violations, but I think it's the tenth or the 11th currency tender, and that's because it's the way we've had to clear the way for the other one to be done. It was perfectly clear in the discussions about the change in income tax laws that at first the currency charge had to be done and others could be released, and the funds for pension were the most important. Other articles of this bill deal with how to use them once these off-countries have been locked up. As of this moment, a new proposal is proposed to Article 12. The bill on authority to pay the individuals who would bring up something in these special closed accounts, which will be totaled at 6,000,000. In an calendar. Already the adjustment suggests that this will be reduced to 1,000,000. Why is that adjustment suggested? Yes, it is put forward to be absolutely sure that there will not be too much efflux. As noted in the case of the committee writer, this can be revised later. A safe face, a respectable president. In answer to the highest power. The secretary of finance on Friday woke up sharp. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson has noticed the contradiction that really exists with us these days. While we're taking steps to loosen the snow hanger that is formed as a result of the demolition trade, there has been a restoration of the waxing trade, and we have no means to react to it. This point is being taken into consideration by the members of the greater part, and I think it is very important. It states that in this context, the Committee points to a reference of ◯ and that is the actions of measures taken by the allocations of currency and economic and Seder Bank are being taken to ensure that the influx of stocks is under way and emphasises that such plans will be carried out in the first place. This is a very important point, and it is very important that it is part of the committee's opinion. But this also leads to the fact that the U.S. dollar is one of the primary weaknesses of the economy and that special measures are needed to keep it from overthrowing the economy one more trip. It is a long - term thought, so it is essential that the vote on the continuation of discussions about involvement in the European Union take place the first, as the government groups actually praised both. We need to determine whether we will achieve an acceptable agreement with the European Union and that we will be able to get through the currency work that is necessary to sustain the long - term economy. I realize it won't be tomorrow or the other, but it's absolutely necessary to look for any means of supporting the currency. The sooner we go to find a permanent solution, the sooner we'll find it, and the better it is. There is good reason to mention a cross-cutting approach to this bill, or rather, a lack of it. The agreement on this matter has been little or nothing. I have to say, as it is, I think it is most reprehensible of the politicians who have been leading the project not to let the government stand for more than it is. The big bill that now stands to vote here tonight was first introduced to the government opposition on Thursday and then only one of each group. The Economic and Business Committee then returned a half minute before a meeting was arranged here tonight because more time didn't come, not that someone was hanging out, not at all. It just needed that time, but I have to put it frankly that I still find it reprehensible for those in the government who are responsible for this work. You might wonder, " Is my lack of communication because it's first and last technical? ' This is not a political issue, and in recent months there has probably not been much political work on this bill. It's all been in the Secret Bank and then it's been with the Ministry expert. That's why people have been lying about another political debate here, which is not relevant to this case, but I can't ignore the fact that this work was going on, and that's why it's just empty nonsense that it couldn't be chosen because this work was going on. This work has been accomplished by experts. I allow me to respect the politicians responsible for the case for the pity that they just didn't realize they had to wear it under other politicians because it was so little at their table. Maybe that's why. A respectable president. I signed this committee opinion, and I and we in the United States will pay our vote to the bill. We believe it is our duty to help the government as we can, and when possible, we can do the big job of lifting currency heads so that we can create a good human life here, a good society. That is why we do and do not want to shrink back. We didn't vote on the income tax Act, but it was cloudy, but it's clean.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u12	A respectable president. Of course, it is never convenient or ideal to be quick to adjust and have a short time to include in many articles on a complex bill. Yet, there are examples in recent years that this was the case with the council. The death penalty is an example of a soon - to - be - ready bill that had to be dealt with in very trying circumstances. Similarly, when highly important legislation was passed during the last terms that sealed demands in currency, everything had to be done very quickly. This bill is also a way of agreeing, and for this, there's a lot of evidence, while the market's closed, so this operation gets lucky for everyone. I have an understanding that I have had to work fast here and must say that one reason I am on this committee and the bright future supports the matter is that during the three promotional meetings I have received, as a member of the Work Committee for Exploitation, as a member of the Bjart's Organization for the Future and for the Economic and Business Committee, my questions about this and questions from my opinion have been answered well. The case has been well built up, e.g. from Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's opinion of the Constitution of the matter and from other lawyers. The reviews were helpful and coverage of all of them, and of course there was a chance of asking questions during the standard therapy of the case, so I think I'm well qualified after this review, certainly in a hurry, to support this matter. It also marks my position that I do not view this as a matter that comes from the other side or out of the sheep's arm or from the sky, depending on how it is viewed, somehow surprising. I consider this to be part of a foretold elimination program, which is not something that this government, now invented, is rooted in its origin in the first term and that more or less cross - political reconciliation has ruled over here. As a member of the Convention Committee on Excommunication, I was introduced to the fact that something in this situation existed, that legislation would produce such characteristics, which was, in effect, to appear earlier. This is no surprise to me. It's certainly a complicated matter because it's a regular tightrope dance. There must not be too much effort to restrict the Constitution of people's property rights. They need to be moderate, as a prominent speaker took the lead in the discussion. Of course, there are all kinds of buttons in this that need to be set correctly. Well, as far as I'm concerned, they're like I'm looking at the case. We are certainly on this bill to set down and define certain possessions. We are saying that these assets depend on certain limitations. It should be considered, then, that these belongings are already restricted, so it is not as if they are taking something that is perfectly free and placed in a newly developed straitjacket. These are limits on property, demolitions that continue to depend on limits. The law bill is about to define these limitations and possessions. It can also be seen in the circumstances of this bill. That's the circumstances. There are restrictions on all of our possessions. As an Icelandic citizen and we all expect to have limitations on our property rights and we have these kind of bills, this and more elements, including... The bill on the stability conditions and stability tax, to place certain restrictions on certain property groups, with the goal of trying to lighten the seas, limits, all of us. I can, for example. I don't, and doesn't exist, whether I might or not, invest a considerable amount abroad. It's headed. I can't invest in Apple or anything like that. This is the circumstances. It is a bit important when some people, as happened to the committee, point out that there are some unusual restrictions on their rights as owners of the land to do some particular thing. It must also be put in place that we are in the head, and all of us are limited. Here we are trying to set goals and to deal with the way to lift those seas. I think it's just been defined so far. Defined have been certain rhythms of foreign possessions that cannot get out of the economy, including Because we have a very small currency, which is another story, though related. This step has been defined, and it is to be let out of one by one, with the goal of trying to lift the seas permanently. We have faced the problem of the foreign demands of the old farms, which some were, in fact, Icelandic, and are, we are not necessarily talking about nationality, we're talking about legalities, pay stability, actually leave out all Icelandic possessions in Iceland, don't do them, and it doesn't affect the balance problem. The next part is the owners of a leftover country, and they have to be restricted, but now they offer a way out with their own tails. All of this is done in an effort to solve the payment problem. That must always be kept in mind. There's nothing else that's going to happen here. It does not mean that there is a lot of money to be made, it does not mean that a certain group of people are treated particularly badly or because we think that someone is a vulture or something like that. This is to solve the payment problem. It is clear that if the oceans were lifted by tomorrow, let's just say that we were about to lift the seas tomorrow, these 320 billion would be of nature, those are possessions that come about in a way that would be very likely to look out. By quickly switching them to the current gang, the public gang, to Euro, the people holding this one would probably make a lot of money. It's just cold food. That's why we call it something hot. These are possessions that would likely look out because their owners would see great benefit in right away switching them to euros. That's how I see it. I think this must be one reason why we need to set specific laws in order to get these things out in an acceptable way. It's the capital that looks out, it's owned by foreign lawyers, and it's their nature, it's in a way that people will seek to divide it quickly into other currency. This has to be moderate, I say. African owners' representatives said to the committee that their clients really didn't want to go anywhere, they believed that Iceland had a lot of luck, a lot of economic growth, and happy times. They ask: " Why do we have to deal with some limitations? We're the owners, like others, and can't we just invest like others? Commenting on the subject, this informal name was the Linking effect. Offhanders would say, like Gunnar at the Link: The slopes, the pink fields, the ground beaten, and I will return, and will not go. That's a line of reasoning. Basically, they're just investors who have one good thing and just want to be here with their money. Then there's a very important argument against, the people who own this coin, are designed for the logical evaluation of what kind of stock these things are changing their credits to euros through a set signaling process, which the Navy of Iceland has developed and is hopefully objective and good, and then these people can divide these assets into currency and simply bring them back into the country and invest as they please, come here and share in building a fruitful and varied life if they wish to do so. These reasonings have come to the design of all this matter. All of this is under strict pressure. It's as if I'm saying a very important factor, but not part of this bill, that the owners of these off-country property can go into a posting process and buy a foreign currency for these assets through that process. It is one of many such pathways that have taken place. If they do not, in time, their possessions will go, not all at once, I think, into a special account in Iceland's Secret Bank, which certainly has minimal interest but is a secure account. These may not be the minimum in stature in the world today. That's all it's gonna be, then, and then it's going to be all in the back of the line of cutting heads. Of course, at this point we cannot guarantee when the head will be lifted. It's just one step. Next up are the pension funds and then the public, and all of this is a very big problem that still faces. These are offered up to those landowners. They are offered free to go to the invitation, or not. There's no duress in this. They can just pick it out. So if they want to go to the auction or to want to get away with their possessions, they may even. built into the bill that they do not have to sell e.g. The cost of their bonding is at speed. They're bought at the available market prices. For this, there is good reason. The government has to keep it, it's a state insurance letter. You can't force people to sell them. It's a moderate watch. They are invited to sell these letters at market prices. If they have ill-deserved property, if they own, for example, these deportation owners. unmistakable letters are required in the bill that they do not have to sell them letters. Rather, their owners can have these belongings but give other financial resources to buy access to the continuation of these assets, which are designed in the bill. I think it's moderate. The owners of these crowns are always faced with choices, and there's no nonverbal pressure in this, I think. So the natural question is, who are these? Who are the people of these national property? Of course, that is a very interesting question. Much of this will likely be exposed to the invitation because people need to be aware of the time when they bring them their belongings and plan to participate in the invitation. It will certainly be informative. So we've been saying that we're creating legislation here as ethnic differences, so it's important to keep it in place that we're just talking about foreign lawyers. Foreign lawmakers may be not only non - Israelites but also non - Israelites. We are not segregating on the basis of nationalities. That's the most important point for me at this point. Also, it is important in all of this not to repeat the story. Here's a stick of money gathered in the tide of the crash, it came in a way that, as I suggested earlier, he's very likely to want to look out quickly, it's a so-called quick capital. Of course, we need to prevent future collections in Iceland of such quick capitals. That's for sure. We see that growing trading is beginning to occur, starting with a quick inflow of capital. There is a number of other legislations, but there is very good reason to highlight it at this point that these tools and tools will be designed to stop this influx of quick capital so that we will not return to this position.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u13	President. Here we are taking the lead in a very large case that can have and is going to have a lot of effect on the recovery of currency capitals. What bothers me with this case is that no matter how well it's designed, how well-developed a crew around this whole thing is, whenever someone says he's going to put up a very complicated case, a huge complex thing like you've heard in the past few days, I'm afraid that in all these complications there are windows. I fear the law will not be well written, and that fear is not without reason. I have heard many members say repeatedly that the implementation of the Generals is not going to be a matter of death between council members because the law will be better by the time the bills are submitted because the bills are usually so badly written when they are first submitted. These are the arguments made by members of the Parliament, major legalists, regarding the reasons why we cannot allow matters to exist between councils. When we received a bill for the treatment of Croncies that depend on specific restrictions, we were given senators who are expected to issue this committee, not just the members of my body, but I think it may be quite safe to say that the members of the greater part were not better informed about these very high-tech exports. And we're supposed to give it a good label, stamp out if the bill is legal. We heard about this afternoon on Thursday. On Friday, the bill was submitted after the market closed, and then we had a visitor yesterday who has to admit that he could not have done enough in detail to make a statement. There are three of them; there is not even a review from the F.A. because they simply didn't have time to work it out. They gave us several oral tips at a brief meeting, since we had all the parties last night, and each person had a single half hour. It didn't matter because there were so few who had had the opportunity to go deep into this law. I have to say, there are other ways to go to make sure that the senators make informed decisions. We committees could have had those bill fags delivered a week earlier on confidentiality. Something else has happened here. Then perhaps we could have called for comments about certain articles without revealing what the matter was or asking those who made comments about the confidentiality of the committee. So, this special group of consultations, they call us the Ministry of Presidency, and they give us a fine and pleasant tour from the Secret Bank and the SEC. However, it is not enough to allow me to experience fully in support of this bill. I support, of course, that we decommission a currency head, but I can't believe the short case because we already have some doubt about the factors that focus on which we piranha places a great deal on, which, for example, spins, e.g. the privacy of your life. I would have very much liked to have received a review from Pernon Protection on that requirement, for once in the legal series, it may have been used later as an example to obtain additional legal privileges in other areas of society. Indefence gave a brief review, but of course they took a very short time to look into the matter in detail. I would like to read their brief reviews, with the permission of a president: UNTIL this year the government's demands of old banks were out of the water, and the dean oceans are now being assured a way out of them. This is done by the methodology described in a 42 - page bill that the Invenge group and other clients only get a few hours to evaluate. However, there is still no need for a public, company, and pension fund in Iceland, who are waiting to hear whether the population's financial balance will be positive enough to be released from capital capital capital capitals as well. The earlier reports of the Invenge team on the government's emissions programme have pointed out that the priority of the demands and decontinents from the seas is both unnecessary and harmful. Although the population's facility has changed completely in the last three years, the currency market remains narrow and risks the long - term failure of the public, business, and pension funds in Iceland. That is a risk the Icelandic nation should not have to take. Governments promised to protect the public's buying power from the damage of currency to the demands of broilers and decontinents. Despite repeated requests, the government has not yet answered when the nation will be free from the seas. Invenge's information requests to Iceland's Secret Bank are left unsettled, and financial secretary does not even respond to a multiple-item request for a meeting to discuss the government's budget release. It is unacceptable to see the rovers and anggressors out of capital capitals with large amounts of foreign currency reducing the permanent standard of living in the public, businesses, and pensions in Iceland. It is still unclear when the Icelanders, although all others have been released, will be free. And on behalf of the Invenge Group... Dr. Agnar Helgason, Dr. Torfi the son of Þórhallsson, Davíð the son of Blöndal, and Dr. Sven Valfells. I kind of have to agree with what that shows up, and I'm their concern. I urge the government to act immediately to answer when it would be necessary to let the public and the pension fund out of those oceans. Others have expressed themselves in these matters, although people did not have much time to do so, and I would like to quote only what Dr. Gunnar Tómasson sent to us members of the council on this matter, on permission of a president: Today, government officials are not allowing a general discharge of currency. In other words, governments fear that such an execution would lead to success. Some time ago, the World Bank was generally not viewed as being in sight for the next few years. A planned high-end national shipment is equivalent to that specific side plan. Still, there will be no assurance that the bank's currency will be reimbursed. It is important to remember that with this operation, we are, of course, not excommunicating the currency head, but taking it here as a first step. There are a few things I would like to do very quickly before I finish my case, things that will appear in the ideal committee of my part that I'm in front of. The Economic and Business Committee will take heart. I'm going to grab on and discuss one of the many factors that explain why I can't support the matter as it is: The fact is that the bill will not lift the public, companies and pension funds, and there is still no time for when it will be done. However, there is a specific procedure that will serve to facilitate future emissions. It agrees with the views displayed in the Committee's list of the greater sections that it is reasonable to apply certain limits to public interest rights, and such restrictions are to be met by a constitution. At the end of the campaign, however, the situation will be that the only unbound members will become the demanding crews of the fallen banks and the owners of the deportations that will take advantage of the auction. One of the main reasons for the government's rejection of the U.S. election demand for spring elections was that capital capital control had to be removed in Iceland and that would have to be completed by elections. However, there is no evidence that the election will be completed in the fall, since there is no time - set for the disposal of seawaters in the public, business and pension fund, and it is clear that more is needed to follow through. More important than that, there is action to help repair growth metabolism, which actually builds up a new problem now nearly a hundred billion and can significantly affect stability. In order to handle it, procedures, perhaps in the form of binding or taxation, may be needed to change the law and should be removed only when the problem is addressed. It would have been better for such actions to be discussed along with this bill. As the situation is, there is expected to be a new section at the Council to complete the recovery of the seawaters. This is exactly what it is, it would have been better to discuss these absolute issues, and to perform a comprehensive implementation of a real-exploited currency charge. One thing that really bothers me is the fact that there are four lawyers who have 50% of these requirements. Six lawyers own 65% of these requirements, and there's no way to find out who these parties are, I've kept asking about them on both closed and open meetings. You just get some answers that they're possible, possibly, and probably, pensions in the United States or charity. No one, however, knows what charity, which pension funds, or which individuals are involved in these demands. To be honest, it's best to tell a pattern of how defective the world's financial system is and how impossible it is to participate without having the right to possess such things. I just don't think it's possible that we're going to this whole thing without being able to get any information. The only way to get information is for these people to go the way. In this country, there is a great lack of confidence in governments, especially those in charge of the government, so you have to ask: Is this the right people for this operation? Does it create credibility? Then I mean credibility to the people. In the community, I sense much distrust. I sense insecurity and the highest. The secretary of finance has not even participated in the discussions here. But he still proposes this matter. It hasn't been visible in the Senate Hall since we started discussing the matter. I don't think that's a problem. Here he is asking us to trust him. What does he resist in order to build trust? What is he doing to calm us down? Nothing. I'm worried. I hope this goes well, but it's impossible for you to feel that possibly and possibly anyone connected to the country's famous octopus could benefit from this without you knowing it. I feel uncomfortable and just dangerous running blind into the ocean without knowing how this will affect the country tomorrow. We're taking a chance, let's keep that in mind. We're taking a chance, but I really hope that they will -- I don't doubt their qualifications -- who have written these laws are doing it with us. I know people have done well, but I also know that we're few in Iceland. We are 330,000 people. That means we are dealing with experts in the abuse of gaps in law. Let us just bear in mind that it is necessary when we set laws in this country that are to protect us from many vultures, domestics, and foreigns, that this is done properly. I just have to be like others to rely on that fact. I don't have any way of evaluating or testing that with experts. I find this to be a problem, and I'm very at odds with the process and the preparation for this for the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u14	Madam President. To begin with, I'd like to say this: I don't think we're taking any chances with this bill. The bill isn't about the invitation. The bill is, in effect, sealing the basic layer before humans take the next steps. They cannot be taken without the use of the crowns defined in the way this is done. But I agree with what. A member of the Parliament that it may well be possible to expect this government with the little trust she has to take on this assignment. However, there is another factor: The harbor bank is secure. I believe his work has shown that people there know what they're doing. Then I come to my main subject: I completely agree. A senator's urgent need is to know who are required by the Icelandic state, who have crowns through an anonymous possession in some tax-paradise. But as I've read this bill better, I suddenly realize that inside it there's a device to find out. I didn't realize that at the outset. This was not shown in the history of today. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. However, the 14th chapter has been pointed out. which is about the surveillance of the Corporate Bank. It literally says that everyone is obliged to provide all the information and information that the bank considers necessary, even for others as well. And it is made clear that there must be also removed from the bank. The legal confidentiality of the individual person will fall if the Councilman intends to use it. How's the Secret Bank going to use this? It comes as a surprise to me, in the leading party of the greater part, it literally says it will be new to call for information about who are the real owners of the continent. [[The president calls.]] This is just what I wanted to pay attention to. I had no idea. It seems to me there's a VG proposal here, which I and myself have. A senator has not only a short, almost reborn but in disguise.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u15	President. I'd love to, but it's not quite like that. This indicates that people who are owners of land property are mainly being considered to be German dentists and so forth. This is not about people hiding in these spaghetti companies, unfortunately. Of course, it may be possible to change it just between traffic. I suggest that we make some adjustments there, and I am absolutely convinced that this is the case. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and what. The head of the committee is ready for this. But I'd like to be properly maintained that I have full confidence, of course, for the skills of Iceland's National Bank and the employees there, and for the people who work at the Ministry of finance. But that's just the way it is, at least my experience here at the council is that no law is perfect. The more you cross the standards, the more you get to look at the bills, the better they will be. That's usually the rule. But I also realize that these laws are, as they have sorely been, extremely complex, and that's why it's very important to be able to call out to the experts you trust. That's what I'm primarily critical of the bill, that's how little time you'd call out for applications from when senators have had to cover their legal procedures. What, then, is involved in the council if we have nothing to say about it? What, then, is the role of the Lawgiver other than being a stamp?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u16	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for studying the concept of spaghetti companies. It's very clear and informative, and you understand it at the same time, but it was strange to me until now. This isn't the first thing I've learned from what I've learned. Senator. I understood the answer to that question. A senator that she thought, I apologize to her if I've misunderstood her, that the information law I referred to was only directed against individuals. But I don't see any evidence of that in an appropriate article. It says, with Madam President's permission: It does not matter whether the information or data relevant to the person to whom the request is addressed or to any other person to whom it is able to provide information on and about the checks and observation of the National Bank. A law on confidentiality does not limit obligation to provide information and access to data. What does that mean? The Economic and Business Committee this arrangement? Thus, by permission of the President's office: While there is no real owner of the land, the invitations of Iceland's Federal Republic of England are expected to call for such information and be obligated to grant it. In other words, without at least realizing it, I think it's more apparent that a law found in the bill is contained by the bill, as far as 14. for monitoring, however, is wide open, and the fact is that this is actually the limit of the Senate resolution proposal of the left movement ◯ green offer. As far as I can see, this consent has been made with the authority to demand information. [[The president calls.]] The second matter is, is it just as clear that the information is mandatory in providing, for example, an tax investigator? I would count it. This is one of the things to consider between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u17	President. As we have seen, this article is merely the subject of this bill. It cannot be taken in any other way. And also, it's a little important to keep it together, that this applies only afterwards. It will only be possible to know later when people are going to work out who they are. Suppose you want to avoid corruption, you can't do it in advance. If you want to prevent and prevent this from deceiving the public, you can't do that in advance. That's what I mean, too, when I'm talking about running blind into the water because nobody knows who they are and it's really hard. And although the Secret Bank has so much authority, there may not be anyone - as I say, i.e. The spaghetti is in a way that makes it impossible to trace it to its final location. Many of these partners have all kinds of societies called Egla and Gammi and False and God knows what. I think it's like with other people who want to get out of the law, as soon as they try to block the well, there's a new tunnel dug through the law. But I hope that there is a law in this that can set a good standard for the future in other matters, for this is endless. It's just like living under a mountain that's always endless avalanches and no matter how many gardens you build, you can't always avoid spilling over. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u18	A respectable president. We'll talk about 2. The government's bill for the treatment of an Off-country. The bill is a very important step in the government's operations to support the emissions of capital resources. Less than a year ago, laws were passed to deal with the problems caused by the property of fallen financial companies. It may be said that these actions have been successful. However, the problem still remains unsolved as a result of the so - called affluence, while the bill we discuss here tonight aims to solve the problem. Because of the subject nature of the bill, it was necessary that the materials should not appear until the end of the market Friday and that political treatment should be completed prior to launching the market. Ever since Friday, there's nothing. The Economic and Business Committee has held four meetings on the subject, a detailed presentation on its subject content, reviews the reviews, and welcomes guests. The visitors included representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Federal Republic of Iceland, and the Association for Economic Organizations, as well as representatives of the Committee for the Two Funds that own national funds, as well as those whose committees had the opportunity to discuss legal issues of the case with experts. The work of the Committee worked well this weekend, and I would like to thank the committee for their hard work and effective cooperation in the matter. I'd also like to thank the authors of the bill for their work, but the bill and the piece with the quality of the paper show that the preparations have been good and careful. Hv. In his speech, the head of the committee has explained the opinions of the committee and its main views. So I will only enter a few key elements. The bill sets out an off-country and special restrictions on how to dispose of them. The notes of Dr. Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son conclude that the controversial limitations are fundamental to the Constitution and national agreements for the protection of private rights and the prohibition of discrimination. The limitations of the bill and laid on the treatment of the Offspring spring forth from an urgent need and duty to protect the interests of the common people. A total of 320 billion are known to have been introduced into the economy without limits, and it would lead to property evasion and inflation, as well as to the potential for deportation through the currency reserve that would lead to the fall of the crown. Although the defamer has certainly grown smaller today, he was just after a crash, he is still very, very significant. The late bank has announced that the end of the country's tenants will be given the opportunity to export their assets from abroad with auctions, and the terms of that auction will be announced in the days ahead. Whether there is a large or small supply, it is clear that the bill we are considering here tonight is a very important step. If the bill becomes the law, the deportation will be properly separated, both legally and technically, from the rest of the country's funds. As a result of the separating process, the next step you can take is to reduce the limits on others, homes, and businesses in your country. Public interest demands that there be now a step to deal with the growing need for pensions, employment and homes to invest abroad. The need is urgent, and the amount could go up to 1,000 billion. Therefore, it may take several years to stabilise the long-term interests of citizens before further adjustments can be made. A respectable president. I will not extend this discussion for any further. I'm here to celebrate the conclusion that the bill has arrived, to express general satisfaction with its careful implementation, and to thank the members of the committee for their fine cooperation and for all who came to the work of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u19	A respectable president. As we have seen, now several times, this bill is a step toward the disposal of capital syrup and is the goal of which, of course, is a good aim, which I think we should all agree to be positive, though I have to say that from time to time, I have been surprised how disagreed. Such matters may be handled by members of the council. Yet, the project is in such a way that much needs to be done without the members of a town and elsewhere knowing what the plan is, as it were. Hence, at times the program will need to be taken on a short notice without anyone really wanting it, and then it must be over the weekend while the market is closed so that people in the market will not be able to respond, and so somehow, the effect of being a bill or a specific subject is intended to be ignored. In a hurry, after the short time we've had to look at this, I have to say, as it is, that I really like the bill in all the basics. I have some comments that just need more time. I doubt that someone in itself disagrees with that, except perhaps those who have expertise in the subject. At times, we are victims of circumstances, and I have full respect for them and have met a strong understanding of them, but this does not help me to look at the matter as closely as I could with more time. Not necessarily that time would make me read the bill over and over or think more of it. That in itself is time enough for that. However, questions about subject matter often need to be asked by outsiders, especially those who are technically complex and where they are concerned with matters that may not have been already called at the table had the opportunity to examine further. Then I'd rather mention a 14th degree. which is about the surveillance requirement of the Board of Nations, but I'll be there a little later in my speech. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir has wanted to know which party is involved. I think it's important for us to consider why these questions arise. Not only do they wake up in this council hall, a respectable president, they also wake up in the community. They wake up because we are putting up with this bill under certain circumstances, in a certain atmosphere, after certain events that make it a small matter of trust in politicians. At times, strange boundaries seem to appear, not to be stated, to what politicians view as normal and to what they think of normal circumstances and normal circumstances and natural incidents. To this day, I do not realize exactly how politicians intend to regain trust if not by showing a little more humility toward the public than has been done in the past, especially recently. It is because of distrust and lack of trust. It's just that way. Whether we agree with it with distrust or not, whether we agree with it or not, it is there and we are to take it seriously because it exists, not necessarily because we agree with it ourselves. It creates a problem when it comes to such matters, when they are handled very quickly, when they are brought up by the same people and have recently been discussed on a so - called tax bill and the like. At least it does not help this matter. I don't have to go into any offenses or accusations in this pit. That won't be necessary. All that matters is that we realize that this discussion is there. It is in the community; it does not depend upon the high Council's approval of whether the discussion is legitimate or not. She's there. Whether we are content with the problem or not, whether we really agree with comments and the distrust that prevails or not, that is our problem. My understanding of that information as well as ever. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir has called on who these people are, after discussions with other people. Councilmen, that this information doesn't exist and can't exist until we send out the Bank of Iceland. Then Iceland's Secret Bank may tell members of the Parliament, probably confidentially or whatever might happen, but it's not possible until then. It's a problem I understand, but it doesn't help. I understand the truth, but he's not helping. I understand that people don't know who these people are, but they don't help. I feel that it is important that we do so in this discussion. 14th par. The bill is an unsupervised Bank of Iceland. The Chapter is the VI. In the bill, it's called Security Bank and Pension. Of course, I do not reduce the fact that Iceland's Federal Office has to take care of this operation and, of course, he needs permission to obtain information, etc. However, I think this article, as it has been written and developed now, is that it would change if it had more time, if this case were resolved on e.g. week and week off during the week when a full review procedure could be made as we normally do, preferably two, of course, and even get visitors from Peritoneal protection to review the best how to prepare for this specific article. It's very wide. I hope there's no such thing as saying that I suspect that the late bank itself made this suggestion. It's all over the place where I could expect only the patrolr himself could have written it so open. On the other hand, I do not intend to declare some unprecedented evil at this time because, first of all, it is designed in a certain way, i.e. In that the warrant is only to enforce these specific laws and to achieve the objectives of these specific laws, the law to which the bill has to, aims. It is important to bear in mind. I would also like to deliver the message to Iceland's Secret Bank that it is important that he himself realizes, in fact, what I trust him to do if he makes a conscious decision, that he stays within the information and surveillance documents that are really and indeed necessary to enforce these laws and achieve the legitimate goals for which the law is meant to achieve. This is of utmost importance, simply to avoid developing some form of controversy over how far we can go. But by the way, this case is, of course, that it is clearly relevant to a very rich public interest. It's different than it was here with the living room at the time. It is good to review on this occasion, a respectable president, that at the 2013 summer Summit, large - scale issues were presented, which were called the living room, and we were tortured and opposed by others in the government council. The reason was that there was a rather large collection of information and it certainly was encrypted and silent, etc. But there was a wealth of information to which we opposed on the terms of the 71nd. The Constitution and, of course, a fundamental prince in human society of privacy. In this discussion, the person here warned that as soon as Haguembourg received this authority, the next would come and want the same kind of authority that people would like to use for some purpose other than the one for which The Hausp was intended at that time. When that prophecy turned out to be true, we had not delivered the bill from the council. Iceland's secret bank came to a committee meeting, wrote a review, and wanted such information as that. For what? Yeah, they're so helpful. Of course, more pessimism was heard on the part of this floor because of that matter, but it was quite different in terms of the economic situation not in our opinion of the rich public interests of the people. It was about how well government procedures had worked. There would have been no collapse here, no gang war or anything about anything like it, and no danger of such things if Iceland's Haggis had not received these sources. That bill is different because it is undeniably a matter of public interest. It will not be taken away from this matter, but it is also why we should be careful. When we find ourselves in situations where we should accept a bill as fast as we should now, we are facing this crisis. And even if we are victims of circumstances and if the asthma is legitimate, that does not affect our work. There's no way around it. The fact that you have an excuse for doing something doesn't mean that the problems with all the truth go out the window. On the contrary, that means you're stuck with them. And I'd like to say the 14th paragraph. is also a victim of circumstances. The problem is that some of her contents are about 71st. The constitution and if not, at least the law No. 77/2000, personal protection law. Both are to be respected, and we normally try to match legislation in harmony with these laws. I'd like to think that I don't think this article is going against a constitution. I just think it might have been better, better able to explain it, add down the information you would collect, which companies, etc. Often, it is simply a matter of having things clear so that people know what they're walking about. But it is also important that we remind him that if we accept this unchanged, we must place a measure of confidence in what we normally expect by obtaining in our meetings such as Peritoneal Protection and even others who know best about how to use legislation so that it is perfectly clear how far the surveillance and information requests go. Once again, I can only repeatedly see that this is a goal under the bill, and the article is set forward to achieve that goal. This is shown in the article itself, and it is vital that we keep it in its proper place. If I have a little more time, I'm going to name one as a boy. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson went in to answer only what happened. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, which led to the Congress resolution of the Left Green on a study of Iceland's Offlanders and tax collections. At that time, there was a 14th parr. Also available are the information collection and information documents contained in it. I'm right that this article, at least not in my opinion, could be in charge of anything, first of all, because of the 14th paragraph. It is defined by the work of the bill itself, not by the goal of a church resolution made by the left greens. Similarly, the late held no such investigation, at least not according to the suggestion, as I read it. I can't find anything on the Secret Bank in the proposal, but it says in it, with the permission of a president: The study group cooperates with an appointed tax manager and with an tax investigator on the terms decided by the tax investigator. The financial and economic secretary will see to it that funds are made from the state's funds to finance additional staff of specialists and other staff needed to consider the head of the state tax and tax investigator to work for the research team and the tax authorities involved. I can't find anything that's going on in the Pentateuch or the goals this bill is supposed to achieve. It's completely separate. I find it important to keep it in the light of the discussion that took place, while I remember, very good. This is not allowed to go into some tax investigation. That's perfectly clear. This is not allowed to go into some extensive collection of information. There is another goal that we should discuss on other grounds. The collection of information allowed in 14th degree. is very broad and escapes only because it is restricted to the goals of this bill, not all other goals, no matter how legitimate that other people's goals might be. There is something that we would need to make specific choices and should, of course, do. Then perhaps there would be just another tone to the contents of the 14th paragraph. Mostly, I'm worried about how she'll be treated. I'm not worried it won't pass the constitution. I think it's in violation of a constitution. It's just important that the ruler of this power realized that his treatment is much more important than that we haven't completely encouraged it. Of course, it would be best for us to do so. It would also be interesting to see what would be shown in the review of Peritoneal Protection if the ideal institution, despite the fact that this did not take on such a long plot as the whole of Congress. As far as I'm concerned with my own position on the case, I think the bill is basically good, as I said before. I think it's a legitimate part of the important and legitimate goal of getting rid of capital capital. The circumstances we live in do not help me press the green button in this case. On the contrary, they make it much more difficult for me. I'm not going to sit next to this case. I'm gonna let the discussion end and let others try to convince me otherwise if they choose. The lack of time will have an effect, and it will have a negative impact on my knowledge, in order to accept this matter or to oppose it. This could be different under other circumstances. If the case had been fully treated, I think, unless something new developed, that I would be accepted, at least if there was a change in word. I'm sure this would happen by standard therapy. I'm convinced of that. It would be changed, simply because members of the Parliament in general do not want this to be blurred. But here is the time pressure, and it causes the problems I have faced in quite a long time. Now, I'm going to have a stately president, a respected president, and I hope this case comes to a vote as before there is a lack of time, as damnable as it is. And although I don't like it, I respect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u20	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson is far superior to me in all that attracts personal protection and the law of personal protection. I always have the constitution in every case, and there's a certain statement, positive when it comes out of my mouth. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson believes he is up to 14. Do not conflict with constitution. That's very good. It was my only doubt about that article because I believe that article is a key article. Then I want to figure out what to do. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son has misunderstood quite what I said earlier when I drew a parallel between that article and the purpose of the left motion of a green offer. This proposal, in the main, is to map out those who have money in the islands of the country, including the idea of being able to determine if some sort of tax practice or tax law has been involved. The proposal I firmly supported did not have much favor in the administrative part of the world, and people found a measure of superiority in her eyes. What I said earlier was that one of the primary reasons men had for not going to such a study was that it did not provide information about who they were. I said that once this bill has been approved, once it's finished, it's the information. Is it possible, then, that in one part of the operating system, there is knowledge about those who have money through the Offland Islands and elsewhere in the management system, hunger and thirst for that information, i.e. among those who are investigating tax expenditures and who are not receiving this information? [[The president calls.]] I think it's gonna be really hard if I can agree with that. I'm afraid there's no such thing as tax analysis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u21	A respectable president. I haven't thought about what it would mean to mix these matters much. We are discussing two different goals and two different institutions, indeed two and perhaps more of them with regard to the tax issues and the role of the Secret Bank in the form and the like. If there's something I don't understand why. A senator can tell me that he is a good judge of that, and especially if I have somehow told the wrong about it. A senator said or meant. Of course, the best thing to do is to listen to the person who says to know what the same person means. At least I'm a little clearer now in the light of an opposing whale. A senator and who believe that it may well be right that after this tender tender tender tender, and after this part of capital disposal has taken place, there is more information that might as well help with the implementation of a European council proposal made left green and cool. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir. It may be so, I simply don't know it, but I would hastily expect that at least there would be some useful information. Of course, there is a need to consider the separation of each office. It is very important that all institutions are well aware of what they serve, and especially when a large amount of sensitive information is applied to both institutions, the Secret Bank, and the head of the tax. Hence, there is a need for careful action. As I say, I haven't really thought about what it means to mix these tasks together, but I think it's true. But let's get one thing straight. It's not necessarily the same people who are in taxes and participate in tenders, it's not necessarily the same parties. It can be the same person, but I would not hastily think that there would be more of them than there would be in any other community. There are, of course, more wealthy people in the community than do those who go to an invitation. [[The president calls.]] Hence, it may not be easy to answer that question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u22	Mr. President. That is the very question we do not know, but many people are thirsty for an answer. Is it so that, under the cover of anonymous records, on the Offsprings of the tax-paradise people Iceland was doing business, e.g. By the request of the state of the United States of the Union, in the postwar fall? It's a suspect. That's what people want to see and know about. We have no way of doing that today. But here's a bill. It contains a specific article, 14 / 15 g., which is untransvised in a paper with the bill, nothing in the lead address. Secretary of the budget, nothing in advance. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, with the opinion of the committee, which is interpreted in one sentence of the report. It literally says that in the invitation, the Councilman will have the authority to call for information on the possession of the available property. Then I believe that according to the release of the invitation, there will be at least road data available on all those who had possessions and who wanted to put them through the invitation and release them from the Icelandic community. In those circumstances, I believe that it has reached at least a well - founded database that could be considered in view of the issue of some kind of tax law committed by these worthy owners. I don't know anything about it today, but this situation can come up. It's what it is. A senator that it will be easy for the administration to resist social demands or at the General Assembly to use that database on the part of the office's tax investigator? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u23	A respectable president. I'm sorry to say that it has not been easy for me to predict what governments normally use information at a time. But I'm trying to get my guidance from the Republic Constitution, 71nd par. In more detail, but just as I think it's important that we stay on track during the discussion. It's not just the constitution. There are also personal protection laws. It should also be our sincere effort that we do not want to go further in personal information collection or drive or save, but it is necessary to achieve certain legitimate goals. As for the motion of the left green, the fine synonym at the moment. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, this is a discussion that I should rather accept as presented, because it is primarily about the governor and the tax authorities and all they care about. There are some personal data, collection of them, processing, processing, contracting, saving and hosting that would be involved from IRS targets, but not from the non-employment targets and everything involved, the stability of the economy, etc. In both cases, in fact, I think it's a matter of rich public interest, but they vary in nature and in different ways in these two goals, probably, I think it's likely. But as I say, there's something I'd rather discuss with the Senate proposal of left green, but necessarily in relation to this case and certainly not in the interpretation of 14 g's. due to the 14th Er, once again, this bill is about this bill. I'd like to read from the bill, from 14. ... withauthority of the President's permission: Iceland's national bank is monitoring the implementation of these laws. It is mandatory that the day's exercise be done at the end of the day. 17th g., giving Iceland's National Bank all the information and information that he thinks is necessary for that purpose. It is very important that we keep this up, and we discern what we are talking about, whenever we discuss information, personal information, or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u24	A respectable president. I don't have a place in the Economic and Business Committee, but I'd like to compliment those sitting there for a good job as well as those who've come to the deal of the bill. I think it's a good step towards us being able to lift the seas. We are also in this way to frame up or walled up those who own these deportations. It has been observed that when these funds, more than 300 billion, tick here at 5% interest rates, the community is losing each year, since the oceans were placed, over 16 billion, a total of 86 billion who are enormously rich. This is a problem we need to get rid of. I think this is a good step in that direction. It was assessed at the time that induction would be an unbreakable part of the response of the Icelandic government to the collapse of the financial program prepared and carried out in cooperation with the World Bank Fund. To prevent further massive emissions of a foreign currency, a cent's crew fell by 50% from mid - 2007, resulting in a peak of 18%, 18.6% inflation at the beginning of 2009. That, on its own, has a tremendous negative impact on the account of the home and the company. That's what we're trying to protect here today, the economy of the homes and businesses in the country. The bill is walled inside the banks of growing 0.5%, which are relatively low in interest of interest, while owners are given the option to go to the gang 220 or to receive invitations from the Sensian Bank. I just want to talk about what it's like. It says in the bill that it includes the obliged owner of the African property to set out specifically the African crowns that will not be used for the planned currency supply of Iceland's Federal Bank. The meaning of the term, national property, is defined and suggested that these assets remain dependent on certain limitations. African property in the form of its own will move to deposit accounts on special limits to the domestic deposit institutions or Iceland's Secret Bank in the case of foreign stock centres. The same is true when paying for other property, which is considered to be deportation. This will be the case in the form of electronic registered stocks in the possession of national and foreign financial institutions, which will move into administrative accounts at Iceland's Secret Bank on the name of the relevant requisition. It is suggested that financial companies and stock markets will be obliged to move domestic property no later than September 1, 2016, at the end of the day's fines. National accounts with special restrictions will be subject to specific binding obligations according to Article 8. The bill. Accounts that depend on specific restrictions are prohibited except in certain cases traced to IV. section of the bill. The bank is then appointed to supervise the procedure of the law, which allows the bank to provide broad sources of information and resources in form, e.g. A day's fine and a board of directors. If the bill becomes a law, Iceland's expressed information on the proposed currency tenders that aim to pay the exits of national property without any negative impact on the prognosis of the domestic currency market and currency reserves of the bank, where all citizens of the country will be able to divide their crops into euro and thus avoid the limitations proposed in the bill. As I said before, I believe this is a good way. I think it's right to take these steps. And I feel that there's a lot of support for the bill at the General. In fact, I hear that some people think that time was little to get information and put it carefully into the matter, but all I have heard is an understanding that it is done when the market is closed. There are two things I wanted to come on, because I've heard a discussion about them in the IIlian symposium. It is on the one hand that the subject of the bill includes the limitations of the provision rights of the owners of funds that are protected by the 72nd surreal regulations. The Constitution, as well as 2 mg. 1st par. Annex 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In 1st. 72. g. The Constitution states that the right of property is holy and that no one must give up his property unless the need for public possession is greater, and it requires a law order and full price. In general, the limitations of property rights are not considered to be a violation of the law and therefore do not set out to improve certain conditions. The members of the greater section refer to this in support of the Supreme Court, dated 28 October 2011, in the June 2011 issue of No. 340 from the same year, where the Supreme Court felt that the legislatator had both right and duty under conditions such as these in order to act on laws that the lawgiver considers essential for the protection of public interest. Of course, it is a question of whether the lawgiver can go further and whether it is possible in these cases, if it had, for example. I've been able to walk a little higher, 240. I've heard that figure thrown away during the discussion. Then there has been a brief argument that the Constitution's rights make it necessary to meet the medium - size limits, to be moderate when applied. But I'd like to say one thing that I may have felt was a little missing during the discussion. I believe that the lawgiver in general has a very strong authority to determine when public interest will be available in order to perform these measures as is currently being done. I think the situation is that the Lawgiver is given almost full power to determine when public interests are present. I'd say they're quite there. We're talking about people who were primarily profiting from Iceland's misfortunes, people who take their place, not just in Iceland, but in countries that have failed to cope with economic collapse, just as we Icelanders did. They need to be dealt with. So I want to prove that it is my opinion that the legislatator has very strong sources to evaluate when these public interests are present and that there is no need to be feared, I'm not sure that they'll be put to the test in the courts. I'm gonna let me predict that. But let's see. Since then, only this public address has been discussed whether the real owners of the land are available. We've been referred to here at Article 14. the bill that says that the U.S. Fendlabanki is monitoring projects, and it's mandatory that day-to-day be done according to 17. g., to provide him with all the information and evidence that he thinks is necessary for this purpose. The members of the body say, on permission of the president: While there is no real owner of the land may be available, there is an estimate that such information can be called and that it is required to provide it. I would have liked to have stronger words. I would've said we shouldn't have this open in any way, that's supposed to. That's 2 mg. 14th par. the bill that the bat can perform field scans. I think it has to be so that the Secret Bank is obliged to call for this information. If there's something we've learned from the collapse of the economy, it's that hiding money and property will do nothing more than digging under the financial system, the public, and the businesses of the country. We need to look at this. In fact, I've been told that it is very difficult to get this information, and people have done their utmost to approach it, unfortunately they have a certain failure. You don't assume there's a law against it. But I think we at the General Assembly should ask ourselves, " Do I need to be able to further strengthen the resources of the SEC from what is now available to this kind of information? ' I'm not sure that it will do, even if there is a 14th requirement. ... thattheServicecando this, that's all it is about. I think it's just so that those who want to continue hiding information will decide to go out on the gang 220, so that information will not be available and we won't even be able to get it, even if the Devil can call for it. I know that the committee went super well into these things. I've heard it from both the greater and the smaller sections of the committee that it feels that it can't go any further on this matter, and I support it. I've heard a lot of interesting and sound reasons, but I think we should consider it at the Generals whether we don't have to give further support to the sources of the FDA. I had not intended to have this much further, I just wanted to share those views. I want to thank the Economic and Business Committee for her work and the people who were involved in making this bill. I believe this is a positive step in the release of the sea, which were put in due need, unfortunately. It is a way to prevent the loss of a dollar or the number of her gangs from falling under any pressure on the Offlands that are stuck inside those oceans. The problem is and the government will be affected by the public in the country and businesses. But this is a well-worked bill, a good and positive step. I want to go as far as possible to deal with these vultures or those who have these monstrosity names, whatever names they want to call them. I think it's a good step in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u25	Mr. President. I'd especially like to say the last words of what? Senator. In that respect, we, Hriflafrá pillar bearers, are completely in agreement. For word's sake. The senator on the possible fall of the Icelandic crown, I now feel that there is no material available, and especially while all of the Pentateuch's barns are filled into the fields of currency. I believe we are extremely well - fed to cope with whatever is involved. But mostly, I come up here to join the debate. A senator's use of Article 14. to inform the possession of property through anonymous civilizations in tax-paradise. Hv. However, a senator said that there are certain limits that the committee found to be impossible to remove. But that's the way it is, and I notice it. The custom of a senator is that it literally states in this arrangement. A senator mentioned, with permission of the Supreme Court. President: The rules on confidentiality do not limit obligation to provide information and access to data. At the same time, the question arose. A senator may find it difficult to trace himself through the long legs of an enterprise, whatever. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir called spaghetti companies earlier during the discussion. And I'm totally agreeing with him on that, it's hard. Then I'll tell you what. The senator's opinion that this article literally says that the Councilman can ask for or ask for information about other members with regard to the surveillance of the National Bank. It makes me feel like there's a lot of money up there and good sources. [[The president calls.]] Maybe one day you'd have built a bridge on it. But when others like man and night. þingmaður Inst. Hrafn Helgi og Brassur Brynjar, chief of the council's experts on government protection, say it's all right, I say it's all right. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u26	A respectable president. Only about the gang. I didn't say and hope I wasn't misunderstood about it. I don't think there's much chance of falling. But it says in the bill, by permission of the President: ▪ [Registered] to legalize the treatment of Cabinets which have been restricted from the phrase of capital strategies. These include property or possession of foreign organisations who are likely to seek out the emissions of capital ablation using a negative influence on the Icelandic kroner gangs. That's what I meant. We are going to take these actions right now because we fear negative consequences of the Icelandic national gang that would have a tremendous impact on the interests of homes and businesses. Only in the 14th grade. I think it's good, and I think it's well said, and I'll make it possible that the Secret Bank can call for information. In fact, as the senator mentioned, the law on confidentiality is not an obligation to provide information and access to information. I understand the article so that it is being granted clearance to the National Bank, i.e. That he can call and so on. But I would have liked to speak a little harder. It's just my personal opinion. But I don't make comments. I'd also like to point out that anyone who really wants to hide something will probably not go to the auction. I'm sure they'll take advantage of 220. Then we will never find out who they were. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u27	Mr. President. Even if it said in the Secret Bank, it was obliged to look for such information, it would not be beneficial in their case. At the end of his talk, a senator spoke about. The law would never cover those who will not move on just to stay inside and wait for their time. It wouldn't save it. I agree with him that it would be better to speak a word more strongly. Yet, I am amazed at how tolerant the committee has been in her view and interpretations of this law. I would have at least one day. lift the edges over this arrangement and look at it a little bit. But there is absolutely a possibility that the man in these sales who has studied the connection between Perone Protection and the Constitutions what happens, okay? paritaprevir In the discussion, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son has caused much anxiety that he is not afraid of requiring a war against the Constitution. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, whose account of the past is in these sales, have described the same thing. Then I'm calm. But on the other hand, I want to believe. A senator for this album that's over there is the Senate stretching pretty deep. I believe, however, that the goal is noble. I also believe, as if I tore into my speech afterwards, that it is not an accident that the law covers this depth. I think it would be the authors of the bill, which I think are the Cordla Bank experts, to create a basis for defending themselves in the event of a possible case. You see, I don't think so. paritaprevir The armory of the son of Níelsson was that it was important to show that there are foreigners and perhaps many among them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u28	A respectable president. I have not come to feel that it can be of interest in future judicial matters. Actually, I tore it up earlier. Although I listen to men learn more about things, I usually do my own research. That is why I came to see that the legislation has a wide range of authority and authority to evaluate when the public need is rich that the rights of the Constitution can be passed. So I don't have the optimism that there's going to be a lot of litigation in this. I believe, however, that men will either go to the auction or take advantage of the 220 march. But that's right, some will probably sit and wait at 0.5% interest. But it is not as much damage to Icelandic society as it has been because it has seen that 16 billion each year is nearly as much as the amount of money targeted for transport. Let's hope that goes up next year. There is a lower number or almost the same number as being invested at the Istavia International Airport. That's a huge amount of money. But as for the surveillance, the penalty for repair, you also have to watch 14 points. and read it with verse 15. I think that this information may be too quick to assume that although the bat can call for information, it is not to say that this information will lie in the public because of the 15th paragraph. says, with permission of the president: ▪ Those handling the implementation of these laws are bound to be silent about the interests of the individual businessmen and other things they are informed of in their work and secretly shall follow the law or nature of the matter... Then a court order is required to give it information. I just want to bring these points up, but thank you for a good discussion. þm. Össur's ass. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u29	Mr. President. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to thank you too. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son for granting me the privilege of peering into his position on various aspects of the bill. Then I must say, Mr. President, they have become three experts, including two lawyers, who believe that the sources contained in Article 14. stands up to the constitution. I'm totally aware of that and what's in verse 15. which follows and the 16th, however, which says that if a judge determines to give these evidence to the police, if necessary, they should be examined. It must mean that if a study of suspected tax laws and suspected that they are Icelanders who have not given up property or information correctly, then let's see how the future provides the information there. I would have thought, as I said before, that by this law it was quite far spent. It could be skated to the constitution. But if you do. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. paritaprevir Brurts the son of Níelsson, and whisk. paritaprevir All three of Þórhallsson's Depends are counted, and they're all superior to me in law and personal protection, that it's all right, I'll accept it. Of course, I also accept the kindness of feeling. paritaprevir The debt of Þórhallsson's son evidently directed to me that the words of the wise were not enough to be heard, that the people themselves had to go and look at the gates. You're absolutely right. Senator. Then he's got to respect me for the pity that I don't have the privilege of sitting at the foot of the champions on a financial and business committee and listening to them. I'm here like any other bum and footman to get information by sitting on the palaces of Congress and listening to them for the few times that they would kindly descend from their ranks and grant us the privilege of listening to the words of wisdom coming from their lips on these matters. I also tried to read the committee's opinion, but of course I couldn't until the discussion began, and I had listened to the fine background. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson when I finally came to read it because it was not ready. But I'm not going to complain about it at the highest. There was no time for consultation. This, however, was a step long ago. They knew this very much in the way they handled these matters. This is primarily a technical implementation of it, of course, with one variation that I would love most in the event of an accident. paritaprevir Brynjar of Níelsson's son or of the case of the Chairman of the Committee, who is also an economic expert, would explain the reason. The plan we are following, which was first published in the reports and reports of the International Price Fund in late 2011, assumed that in the first place, publishers would try to round out the property found in farms. I think they've been rubbed down half the time. Then, secondly, the rest was to come into debt by allowing them to pass through the planned invitation in June; otherwise, their owners would allow them to be put over for long pay papers and after 10, 12 years they would be paid off, they would grow up and come on due date. I think it was a good way because it puts less yoke and less pressure on the Penitentiary position than the way we're choosing now, but it means that it's simply paid off the currency. That was for that reason, I think, that hadn't. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son claimed to have been under pressure on Facebook and elsewhere where people were talking about the imminent fall of the crown. That's nonsense. The crown won't like it. As I have said, the Penitentiary is filled with stores of currency, so I'm not afraid of it. On the other hand, I would appreciate it if an explanation of why that original plan was taken away. This may be because the zebra simply has such a strong currency position. It may well be. The other would indistinguishably have put less pressure on the currency position and, in effect, would have led us to the need for this money, i.e. Let them out, so face in currency when it would be further in the future. Maybe it's food. paritaprevir Empresseur Níelsson's son or others who use machines that the place of the nation's population is simply so good today. Other than that, it's just a step in a long time ahead of a plan. That's why I think it's perfectly logical for the United States to support this case. I will. I have felt that the discussions that have been tonight and the days were very helpful. If something is, it is my opinion that the bill is more powerful than we are to meet the requirements of these final preparatory procedures before we enter the tenderontance. I also believe that it is important to note that the invitation in itself will not lead to any less disturbing consequences for the public quality of life, as appears to be in at least one statement. As I understand it, it's just that it doesn't matter how much of this deportation is going out there. The person who chooses to stay in this country is simply, in a figurative way, locked down in a closed dungeon and does not get out until the Icelanders look like it, and there is no date or date on it. That may not be very desirable. Meanwhile, they get no interest but 0.5%. Hv. paritaprevir So Þórhallsson's homing shoes made it possible that there might be some who would still be in that position, including those who would like to remain in that position. in the case of some of our countrymen who do not want to make it appear through the sources that the Council is able to demand information about possession, and can be found in 14th. . g., and therefore preferred to have their money for many more years than to be visible. Then it is my opinion that, as the situation exists in the world today, and the cost of growth is in the world today for such funds and those who have money like this, it is more likely that a much larger stat than men generally expect, at least in this discussion, should choose to stay here at 0.5% interest and wait for its time, wait for a centencourage. It is possible, then, that their benefits, because they are far more favorable, could lead to their immediate success just being here than doing business somewhere else. I've been in my speeches today giving a mother a sense of the urgent need to inform who they are and how high the percentages of Icelanders are among those who own this kind of land that are so populous and possibly grow on epidemics at the time of the auction. It's because I don't agree with anything at all. paritaprevir Son of Níelsson's armor that knowing this is not important is a matter of speech. Hv. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son is a man of care, and sleepeth well in the night over all this bed. I have an evil past in this case. I've been in the government and, actually, two people who've been leading the national sink through this and I know that anything can happen. You must think of the unthinkable. Part of what is considered is how the bonds placed on property, foreign property that are so defined, compatible with international commitments, and the events of the Constitution. The bill is about putting a measure of bondage in foreign parties, some of whom believe to be at odds with 65rd. The constitution. These rules found in the bill predict that there are a considerable variety of ways in which foreign people and from abroad, whether they are real owners or if they simply have the right to make a provision for it. On the basis of this, the measures taken by the bill will not simply be placed upon foreign owners that claim to be the owners of the land because the real owners can be domestic or foreign. A respectable president. It's all right in comments. I think I'm talking about 2. The bill, and you wondered why it is being challenged by the authors of the bill. I believe that it is because they see that if there is a legal problem in the courts because of whether there may be a legal right to those holding it or to own it, it was important to be able to show that this includes both foreign and domestic. This shows that there is no discrimination. This is what I think is behind the idea of the billaries. That's why. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, whom I believe, is not that of 14. with all the sources there are falling from the sky. I think it's literally inserted there with the limits we're built in verse 15. and 16. to enable the database to inform a) about the level of the individual population in this category and b) possibly how high the amounts are that they have to control. These are facts that I consider in view of Icelandic judicial cases, even in the presence of foreign courts. It was just what I wanted to come here to get us to sleep. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson has been indistinguishable as to the fact that I think it's right to draw out a particular point, which I still consider key, which we disagree on. Now it may be possible to prove that this is different, but this is the only explanation I can find that the official information source has entered the bill in Article 14. It is very difficult to understand why someone else should use that authority. This is due a little better in the committee opinion, which literally says that the Councilman has the authority to demand those who solve their property in this way about who are the owners, the real owners. I also note that in one sentence of this law, it is said that the Councilman can also, in the power of that law, demand the information about the other person. And I think it's a good idea. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir called spaghettis and what. paritaprevir Þórhallsson said that it was very difficult to read to obtain information about possession. Here it is crystal clearly set that the bat can go quite far. In any other situation, I would have believed that there were perhaps men on the other side of the line as the Constitution and after the incident laws on personal protection of homes, but I have any confidence that the fine men I have mentioned tonight have clearly declared that this is their opinion, though some of them may have preferred to have spoken differently, that this is in order with the constitution. Mr. President. I believe with this fermentation, the chain that was defined a few years ago, is being read even longer and first presented in the 2011 World Bank on how to reroute currency capitals. These steps have been taken in a relative way. It can be said that no matter how hard a conflict arose within the government to determine whether to go the so - called failure route or to travel the way of negotiations, no matter what problems may arise. As one remembers, that resolved the matter for probably two years. Of course, recalling the cost was a small price. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason is here close to me and is linked to Icelandic business life, although only through his extensive knowledge of it, that it was the very business body that made the assessment of it, and that in February 2014, every year that was delayed to abandon the outcome of this case cost the Icelandic life of 80 billion years. The fights that occurred between the head of the advance party and the current financial minister, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, have thus cost an Icelandic community 160 billion, according to the scale of the Commission's approach to that cost. I believe, however, that in this situation we must do what we can to further the situation. That's why I've said it's perfectly normal for the United States to support this case because it's a technical implementation of certain events that must go through before we can stop the currency headache that had been decided before. This is part of the invitations we've been standing for in the past three years. I hope it's going well. However, I would also like to say that the export that is in existence here, and the definition of what is left of the land, is a good option for the export. We also remember that the government had declared over the past year that this invitation should be carried out in January/February, then the men spoke about March/ April. Now it is clear that within a month it will be finished. Happily, the agency is equipped, so as I understand it, it will not affect the standard of living in Iceland whether it will be a major or a small participation in the invitation. The remainder of the obituary that stays behind and does not look through the invitation will be locked down for an unpredictable period of time and will not be able to fall under the definition of wild crowns and will not be able to cause any harm in the modern economy. Maybe that's what's the magitic spell on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u30	V.E.G. President. After listening to a discussion here tonight, it seems to me that this bill is generally quite acceptable to the Senate. I feel very sorry for myself that the members of the Pirata and the left greens of the Economic and Business Committee could not be on the committee and I think the explanation found in the Committee of my objects is rather trivial. Among other things, it mentions that there were insufficient consultations. Your objective has been in the way for a long time. People in general were aware of what was being done. Some of the technical issues in this case are the nature of the case. Many are also sensitive to such work because it is likely that things can go wrong because they are very difficult, and that is also why that time is so short that we have. So this has a reasonable explanation, and I feel that my explanation is rather trivial in this matter. Another factor that has been presented in this discussion tonight, as well as in the community discussion, is that this is not far enough here, i.e. To deal with these African owners was to be taken more seriously. Even the saying is well spoken - although it is not done in a Senate hall tonight, but in many parts of the community - there are vultures who are not well deserved and who would take them more seriously. In this regard it is so important that we understand - there is a bit of noise, President, here in many...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u31	In the side room.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u32	- that we're not going any further than we need. If we do, this operation may not last. We have to figure that out. This may also explain why work took longer than originally planned, that humans needed to be careful. That's true, though, like what's wrong. paritaprevir Þórhallsson said, the courts have given the legislature a lot of room for public interest. But that does not mean that we can do anything because we say that. [[Up front.]] We must always be careful not to go further than there is a reason. It may well be better for the national community to take it harder; have walked 240 to 260. But circumstances do not allow us to do so. As far as I'm concerned, we shouldn't go any further than we have to. I understand, however, the viewpoint, but I still want to reiterate this: Let's never go beyond the need. Only a 14th discussion was made. and monitoring. Perhaps the most important thing to me was to listen to the two Martyrs who covered it and spoke entirely into a cross, one who wanted much information while the other representative was deeply concerned about personal protection in that regard. Not everyone who is of the same category may agree, but it seemed like a little debate to me. About 14. Gr., because of what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson also referred to her, but it is primarily a matter of criminal conduct with regard to money theft and organized terrorism. There is a specific possibility for monitoring. Of course, at the end of an invitation that will be made, this information can be demanded by the Sustainer, who, of course, is naturally being observed. That is very normal under such circumstances. But finally, I want to thank the members of the board for what they're doing. Economic and business committees, and especially financial ministers. There's been reports in the discussion that it doesn't matter who's a minister under these circumstances, it's a technical point that's just being worked at the Federal Bank and the Ministry of State, but in this operation it needs to be a political leader. Officials don't invent something like this. They need political leadership, they need solid leadership, that's not gonna happen on their own. It is very important for the minister to take the lead in such projects as the fine minister, the Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance, has had many other matters, very difficult, complex matters; he has been able to select powerful people to assist him, to be awakened, and to sleep over the project. And I want to thank not only the minister but also the members of Congress who have engaged in this work, exert themselves, contribute much to the situation. I'll say what. paritaprevir Steingrímsson, who is given special commendation this time; not to calm down that it is returned.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u33	I'll live on this for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u34	- You live a long time on this, but it's important, and I'd like to remind you that the bill is very good, and I'm glad it's so supportive.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u35	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but what? A senator took note of just two piranha opinions that have spoken tonight. There's only two of them. It's the one standing here. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir. I wanted to keep it as a matter of course. paritaprevir The daughter of Birgitta Jónsdóttir was discussing not knowing who was talking about on the bill, which side they were. It's not the same question as the 14th paragraph. 14th par. The bill has to do with the collection of information sources or, rather, the surveillance clearances of the Navy bank and there's a difference. I can't see the 14th floor. The bill would somehow make it easier for the National Bank to answer questions each time. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir before the bill is approved. I don't see it. However, it has also been noted that during the signaling process, the Federal Republic of Iceland may eventually answer this question. Even so, it is not the same answer to members of the Parliament at a closed committee meeting and, on the other hand, to assign a surveillance role to the National Bank. This is different. I wanted to keep it up. But I wanted to ask because of it. A senator rightly concluded that this is a matter, and this must be done quickly: Count why. Senator, 14th C.E. would have received further and more careful discussions and even adjustments if the matter had been given a more traditional time for conquistancy? Or thinks so. A senator might think that the article is perfect just as it is?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u36	V.E.G. President. I'm not sure she'd been given a longer discussion. Such measures, in the circumstances involved, are essential to monitoring. Of course, when it comes to primary protection, the evaluation of what is needed and what information is needed in order to follow up the necessary checks and then the protection suggestions. This is a very special case, a very special case, with significant interests being involved, a real interest in success, interests because there is no way of being a person or an outsider or some kind of money-coaching or anything else. The monitoring is very necessary during these procedures, which, of course, will fade away. But because it's so special, I'm not worried about the law. I'm not sure that would have given much basis for a long discussion or observation, so to speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u37	Mr. President. Because of the groaning I hear here in the hall, it'll be my shortest speech for a very long time. I have a question for you. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. It states that the committee's opinion, stressed, is not known who are today the real owners of a deportation machine. But it clearly states that the invitations of Iceland's Secret Bank assume that such information can be called in and that it is required to provide it if requested. By what means will this be possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u38	V.E.G. President. I just sort of fell out there. I don't even remember what... [[It was this one, by the power of what source was that?]] Yeah. [[Up front.]] It's so late. It's getting Ingibjörg. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] No. In this regard, there is an expected clearance of exports to call for this information. Under some circumstances this may not be necessary. Some may be suspicious, so it is quite normal to be used if you feel that it is needed, but not to do this in fact, always. Or it may be said that it is a personal protection not always to pry into something that may not matter. But I think it's important to have this possibility, as part of the surveillance process, and I expect the late bank to make a general claim on this or most of the time. At least when there is reason to believe that something suspicious may be present.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u39	Mr. President. My question is to have it informed by the head of the Commission which of Iceland's province is applying for its authority to call for information on possession. Am I not correct in understanding that it is the source that is being given according to 14th? par.? So I guess I'm not right about the 14th floor. As it is now, if it seems so, does the Federal Bank grant permission to call for information on possession at each person?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u40	V.E.G. President. Of course it is. ... todothis. The late bank will monitor the implementation of these laws. There is quite a wide range of sources he has in connection with surveillance. This is made clear in the article. I'm not worried that this isn't clear enough. I think it's very important that this be applied to the outlaws, or even around the act of the law, if there is any reason to believe that something is unclean or vague regarding individual owners.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u41	It's what it is. A senator that if all of it had been up for Iceland's Secret Bank to be informed in this way about those who might have been associated with terrorism or possibly with money laundering, that the report had not shown up? The report shows nothing of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u42	Yes, it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u43	No. There is no evidence of this in the 14th article. which follows the bill. Nothing at all. And that's what I put my eyes in. It was not defined in any way. Then it is very difficult to conclude that this is a very common source. V.E.G. President. Is it not because, if a pilot would now listen to my case, that the Navy feels that it would be worth anything to have information to work through that if there were a case? I feel that way, and that's why I think it's there. Therefore, I believe that such information can be won and used without necessarily drawing dangerously close to the ideal personal protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u44	Mr. President. As I went over to my committee party earlier, we senators with left green comments on this matter, would have liked to have seen some factors like waxing business and real possession of the Off-countries in connection with the discussion of this matter, except that we had, of course, a very short time to review a very large case that concerns the nation's interests. For this reason I went over here and briefly mention now we're going to sit next to the payment of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u45	A respectable president. During March 2011, a decommissionment program has been under way. He is now half what he was at the beginning. The current step is fully in line with what was set up at the beginning and up in the United States. In line with that position, we support this case and believe that it is right to take the step of narrowing off - land documents, now that there have been many opportunities for them to take property out of the country. Our agent on the committee, what? paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, otherwise traced our comments, but we in the United States will support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u46	A respectable president. If it had been longer, and if the case had been given a full period of time to issue and the church treatment, I may well have supported it, but circumstances allow me to sit by. In itself, it is not a fault of the case, I just think I need more discussion, more intimate opinion and more of the community opinion of the case in order to vote for it. To say that, I understand and respect that there is only a short time left. This has had to be the nature of it, as it were, for a brief period of time, and it has had to be unusual in some way. This situation, however, does not help me in my work, so I am embarrassed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u47	V.E.G. President. In 2008, currency exchange restrictions were put on the economic breakdown of 2008 to protect the economic and financial lives of citizens who wanted to, and still, profit from interest and fortune - making by currency. The reason for the oceans was that we did not have money in currency to get these people out of the economy. That's why they put a currency head in. These financial spheres and investors have been fighting against these seas since 2008, and various organizations in this country have agreed and do not seem to understand why the seas exist. They are there for our defense, for the public's defense. They are here because of a bad necessity. Now people want to get rid of the oceans, and we still don't have the currency to pay for all the money that wants out. They need setting priorities. I am about to establish my priorities in the interests of domestic people, not foreign or registered abroad, even though they may now have to pay off to the reduced favors of the Icelandic public or taxpayers as proposed af Lilja Mosesdóttir in the autumn of 2008. [[The president calls.]] It would have been better to listen to her argument. But only one thing is talking about releasing 200 billion from the economy in currency. [[The president calls.]] The entire Icelandic pension system over the last two losss have been allowed to clear 40 to50 billion and there are still. I protest the priorities of the government and the reasons for which it is being worked on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u48	A respectable president. One of the most important efforts of today's political era is to eliminate capital transport in Iceland. Here is a very important step in that direction. We're not doing it right now, but we're taking a very important step. This step has been taken in schedules that I believe were largely subsidiary agreements for years. In this regard, it is not surprising. We have defined the problem as being in several constants of all kinds of money, which in one way or another look out of the economy. It's taken over to the high-end exit. Those who own the deportations will be given certain conditions. When the public gets to go out, they won't be set. I would like to use this opportunity to express my admiration for that group of government officials in the Federal Bank and the Ministry of finance who have been working for many years on these matters and now have an extraordinary job now, in my opinion, a bill on very difficult matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] With this group, thanks a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-22-114.u49	A respectable president. I want to set up this vote and thank you for your cooperation with the Economic and Business Committee and the work being done on the Committee in the last few days. Here in the discussion, there have been various viewpoints. I understand everything that's been said about the timex. It's not a surprise. In regard to our priorities, I would like to know that we are in effect setting priorities for public, pension, and others. This bill is tailored to the ability to raise capitals of currency, of the Icelandic public, from the companies. The premise that it is possible for us to complete a device for this part of the payment system. Whether they eventually participate in the invitations or get access to the accounts, we have made arrangements for this matter so that we can free ourselves of capital problems from the Icelandic public, businesses, pensions, and others. It's a core point of this matter. [[The president calls.]]
