ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u1	President of the United States reports: I have decided, as directed by the Prime Minister, that the Council shall meet on Tuesday, January 19, 2016. One-thirty-thirty-thirty. All units, 13 January 2016. Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet for an extended meeting. I offer the highest. President and w. All council members welcome to New Year's Conference.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u2	Thank you very much. Prime Ministers have good wishes for us generals. Honorable generals. Now that the Council is convened in a new year, the thought of the fall council is thought - provoking. There can be no denying that things were working out differently than would have been desirable, especially at the end of that council. It is now called, both within the council and outside, that at the General Assembly, we make some adjustments in the way we work and act. This is something that we senators must keep in mind for the winter and spring council, so that we listen carefully to the critical voices that have been heard. It is my intention to cooperate with the leading members of the council. I would like to, in view of my joy that the Council has a special budget for this year's decision to begin building an office building in Generality. The building is designed to replace the scattered facility now rented by the General of Parliament's offices and by the Committees. It is unequivocally possible for the Generals to have all their dwellings in a structure in one place. The financial advantages of that arrangement are as relevant to experts as it is to the Council to build better than to rent houses in the most expensive areas of Reykjavík. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Presidency Committee, an initial consideration was adopted because of the planned housing done in close cooperation with the committee and is based on a thorough need analysis. It is also a joy to know that this year there is hope for the completion of the renovations in the house of Sheld. As a result of this work, it will be far removed from creating a complete street image on church street, which is of great importance for the appearance of the World Congress and the Middle-city. I would also like to report on this occasion that the Commission's 100th anniversary of the election of women, Ásta R. Jóhannesdóttir, has provided me with a report on the work of the Committee, which was completed at the end of the birthday year. The report will be published on the Generals web. It provides insight into the great work that hundreds of people did throughout the country to make their birthday a memorable event. It could be said that the election anniversary was unique in that it was remembered in various ways in the past year and throughout the country with a number of people, though the highlight was, of course, June 19. A poll conducted that took the initiative of the birthday committee showed that events related to the birthday year were quite successful in the public. Is this a sign that you did well? It is interesting, for example, that 52% of the country's people watched her TV program ◯ that was shown on TV. On behalf of the Generals, I want to thank all who were involved in this work for their contributions. I thank you for your cooperation over the past year, and I hope that we will be left to the end of the winter and spring council that the Allied will be a pleasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u3	On December 28, of that year, in 89 C.E., a Málmfríður Sigurðardóttir, former Generalist, died in the Hoggi residence home in Akureyri. Málmfríður beauty was born on Lake Eagle, 30th March 1927. Her parents were the poet, the teacher, and farmer Sigurður Jónsson of Eagle Lake, and his second wife, Master of Hólmfríður Pétursdóttir's daughter, from the Götlands, a woman of great women's rights, whose father, Pétur Jónsson, and Grandpa, Jón Sigurðsson, were all members. And there was something else about generals and politicians in the family of Málmfríður freedom. Just as most of her generation grew up when she finished her Women's School Málmfríður in Reykjavík in Sigurðardóttir, the school course was not long. When a year later, she became a housewife at the woodfloor Valley, where she raised her seven children. She later became a housekeeper in summer at the Streets of the State, and she worked in a Christian hospital until her arrival at Congress in 1987. At the same time, she had been a teacher at the tobacco elementary school for years. In his younger years, however, a Málmfríður - bound daughter of Sigurðardóttir was once on the Common Community's list of offers. On the other hand, the woman's battle of rights was heavy on her heart, and she joined the women's movement when she offered them in the 1983 General election. At that time, she was at the top of the Women's Arts Association in the Northland District and twice sat down at the council as a substitute during the terms of the ultimatum. In the 1987 election, when the Syndicate was given much responsibility, she received a permanent assembly seat. She was sitting at six legislatures all over. Shortly after her appointment, she became a bookkeeper at the Amts Library in Akureyri, and served them for retirement, 2001. There she enjoyed extensive knowledge of books and literature, along with the smooth and friendly manner she always showed toward her companions. At the scene of the General Assembly, the longest Málmfríður of its own party was a seminary. She was a member of the Western Council, a joint secretary, and president of her council for the last United States Congress, 1990,1991. Its content and conversation were equal, social, community-based, and homework issues. At the age of 60, a Málmfríður - bound Sigurðardóttir was an experienced woman of her life when she sat down at a council, at the age of 60, and became a nation - famous from questions factors for her learning and amazing memory. Icelandic culture and history were highly regarded in the childhood days of Málmfríður and developed her outlook on life for the rest of her life. She showed unappreciative efforts as a housewife in a rural area in which the highway in the city of Rhoja Valley was visited. She spent long hours working on the farm as well as working outside the home. Women saw in it a worthy representative of their views and experience when a chairman of the district was called to the council. Her confidence did not fail, and here at the General Assembly, she enjoyed the respect of everyone for moderation in speaking, reasonableness, and kindness. She was a joyful woman, warm and trusting. I ask the Senate to remember Sigurðardóttir, the former general, by getting out of bed. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u4	Borist has a letter from what? 3.m. Witchest. "Ásmundur, the Einar son of Daðason, that he will not be able to be a senator in the near future. Today, then, at General 1st, a deputy of the Apostle Party's list in the district, Sigurður Páll Jónsson. Sigurður Páll Jónsson has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u5	Three letters have been sent from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for every request to give written answers to the application form. 617, about the influx of a currency, from Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, to ask for a spell. 666, on possession at Leifs Erik's Air Station and the Freest Trade, by Vilhjálmur Árnason, and on a petition. 696, on which the trend has been made in the number of institutions of the State, public partnerships, and government companies in 1990 (1990,2015), from the daughter of Katrín Júlíusdóttir. There have been two letters received from the Environment and Resource Ministry where you request an invitation to provide written answers to the requested application. 582, um, about tattooing, from Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, asking for a spell. 596 on climate operations, from the Swavardsdóttir of Svavarsdóttir. There have been two letters from the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms asking for deadlines to give written answers to the application for this request. 523, for the National Creation Centre of Iceland, from Hrafn Gunnarsson, and for the inquiry into the spell. 263, investigating a case at the Contestant Control, from Guðlaugur's pool of Þór Þórðarson. Three letters have been sent from the Ministry of Health where you request an invitation to give written answers to a letter on the subject. 672, about the health cost of road accidents, the condition. 657, for the dating of the highest government of the Ministry and its institutions, and for the petition. 658, on the dating of the Ministry institutions, all of them by Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u6	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Education and Culture, Industrial and Business Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u7	A respectable president. Since the summer of 2013, representatives of all political parties have been working to change the constitution. The government groups have been faithfully involved in this. We have tried to focus on some aspects of the meeting that took place on the committee primarily. Now, however, a number of final meetings have been held in the committee, and the administrative part of which he trusted to do and what changes he is ready to make in the constitution are constantly answered. That's why I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister for what can be expected in this regard. Will the board of directors want to make good use of the current constitution? [[The president calls.]] Honorable President, I'm just finished with a minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u8	There's been an error. Excuse me, the President will correct that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u9	Will the government groups take advantage of the opportunity now to change the constitution? I particularly remind you to the highest. The prime minister himself has promised that the constitution of resources will be set up. Will the greater part fulfill that promise? Will the delegates of the Annexe fulfill the promise made by prime minister himself as well as the vice president of the Prosecution Party from the General Public Court? V.E.G. The prime minister is diligent in promising national instruction on a variety of matters, including those in the United States. A case that he himself has promised he will lay before the Council, but he has stumbled. Is it not easier to give the people the right to bring matters into national terms than to have to wait for the best of our day? Whether the people are really allowed to express themselves in matters of great importance to them or not, does the prime minister or other advisers? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u10	A respectable president. If I start with the last remark. I agree, then, that it is desirable for the nation to have the most opportunity to call for a national hearing. So we're moving toward the Committee's work, I don't think it can be set up that way, as it sounds to me. A senator makes that there are two sides of government and government opposition, and the government's opposition should only wait for what representatives of the board offer. This must be a cooperation to find a conclusion available to all, a conclusion that involves the making of good changes that we now have, especially because of the circumstances. paritaprevir At the end of the last terms, Páll's Árnason years helped him to keep this possibility open. That's why I've had a bad time. When a senator has been suggested that in some way, he has prevented the changes in the Constitution. The potential exists today is not least because of what lies ahead. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason used himself to do so. I hope we can take advantage of this possibility, but we must have a clear understanding of how the political parties will proceed with the case at the council. You can't have the product of these orphans, so to speak. We need to have a common understanding that what will be concluded by the Committee, what will be settled there, will go to some direction where the groups work together.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u11	A respectable president. I prefer to interpret words of the highest. Prime Minister in such a way that he promises that the greater part will offer suggestions on what he trusts to do. Of course, this is not so that the memory part remains inactive. It is only now that the more prominent members of the Council have not agreed with what they trust to do or make it clear on the committee. There is now a waiting period. Besides, we don't have an endless period of time. If the change is to be used, a national agreement must be made before the beginning of the next fall so that this matter will not be part of a debate in election winter. Therefore, only a few weeks have the council taken to get the job done from now on. So it has become very urgent. I'd like to get the top of it. A prime minister to emphasize that on the part of the Management Board's representative, a clear answer is given to what the majority of these parts are willing to offer. Of course, it would be historic if we were to secure the nation's right to bring a case into the national budget and to ensure that the resources of a national possession are in a constitution. It would be worth the trip. This requires that the administrative body begin to settle to itself: Do they want to do this or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u12	A respectable president. I reiterate what I said before, that it must work the same way in both directions. There must be a need to approach from both sides, not just the government opposition, to wait for the representatives of the greater part to announce what they are ready to do. I agree with what. A senator that hopefully this work will be completed in a way that the members of the council can follow up on it in time and that we can make changes, especially with regard to national resources and direct democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to the highest possibles. A minister of education about words that he dropped during the days when he was opening a new program that helps with reading school at the highest level. According to the business magazine, a minister said that the school itself would not solve this problem, the public system would not be so good at bringing new things and, in fact, it would be pretty bad at all, as the Supreme Court said. Minister. Now I don't know if the business magazine has it right, but I wanted to ask the highest. A minister of education whether he thought it was so that the public school system would be very poor to bring new things, whether he thought it was the wrong understanding I had to make, that schools were actually centers of evolutionary activity, and that was exactly what was new. If the highest. A minister in general believes that the public is a failure to bring new things, or whether it was just the public school system, what evidence does he have in it? As we examine the history of innovation, research, and development, the cooperation of the public and the private sector is frequently discussed. It's only enough to mention anything that many members of Congress have, I see at tables called smartphones, which were not least developed as a result of technical development in public areas west of the ocean. We can take an example from the rear. Everything that is involved in Internet development and other things - the public has probably made a very large contribution. The school system is another example, of course, in which the government has produced an enormous number of innovations. I don't have time to enumerate all of them, new things to teach, to read, to film, to teach, to understand nature, wherever we look. V.E.G. However, a minister has more spoken about directing the school system into a course where he is more likely to pass through medium - controlled tests, effectiveness tests, and screening tests. I don't know if he thinks it's possible for newcomers. But what data has the highest. A minister in that regard when he says that the public school system is a failure in innovation, or was at the highest level. Perhaps there is something else that a minister would do when he said that? Tells you the highest. Ministers, really, that the business plans of the place where you work determine if you are creative and productive? Isn't it true, Mr. President, about professionalism? What's going on? A minister of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Is this about professionalism? My answer is, it's about results. The situation in England's schoolchildren is that since 2012, when our kids first had a PISA test, our success has steadily deteriorated with one exception from that time. Now when you look at the numbers, it's like the kids taking the test in 2012 were six months smaller in school than the kids who took the test in the year 2000, but we all know that it's not. The conclusion, then, is this: Thirty percent of high school graduates cannot read for themselves. It is the result, a respectable president, which must be fundamental to this. I'm interested in hearing it from what? Senator, former U.S. Marshal. Minister of the jury, whether she feels that we can say something to parents, e.g. Those boys who cannot read for their benefit at the end of high school, that we are content with that conclusion, and that we feel that we have done very well in studying these children, or 12% of those girls who are unable to read at the end of high school. May I remind you that we are the nation that puts the most money to study and to strengthen each student at the elementary school. That's what I'm referring to that we need to do much better. Of course, there are innovations in the public school system. Actually, because of what. A senator was listed here as a public intervention of technical technologies, so it is true that the government has a role, e.g. a range of basic studies. Many remarkable things have come on the basis of them. But we also know and know it, and I can have a long discussion about it at the moment. A member of Parliament that when it comes to the actions of individuals and the motivations involved, it is very likely that solutions that can be used on the basis of such tests will be obtained. Once again, we're discussing results. In any case, I'm going to say I'm not comfortable with the conclusion that 30% of our boys can, according to the PsSA results, do not read for their benefit at the end of elementary school. I'm not saying it's the sacred truths, but it gives a strong clue. I don't like that 12% of the girls can't. I don't like this position. It is the standard that directs whether I will be pleased with that conclusion, including the result. of innovation when it comes to teaching children and young people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u15	Mr. President. I understand the highest answers. A minister makes him very disagree with the public school system, as he here speaks. He's talking about bad reading results. It is true that we would have liked to see better results in reading. In other areas, we have been very successful. Minister prefers not to mention. But I asked the minister a clear, clear question, what he thought was the most successful success in innovation, whether it was the management form, or whether it was professional. When I'm at the highest. The minister's comments indicate that the public has something to offer, e.g. in basic research, it's not that, because when it comes to the technological development that I mentioned, it's not just about basic research on the public, but rather rather, evolution and innovation of the final production. I didn't realize if it was the highest. A minister was speaking about it, because he specifically specified the public but not just schools in general or their staff, that it would be more successful if the school system was a privateized section. That's what I'm talking about. A minister is referring when he complains that there are insufficient innovations in the public school system? What's at the top? When a minister speaks of the failure of the public school system, exactly what he says? Does he believe that the central school policy he speaks here, i.e. Success measures in specific areas, are they likely to lead to further novelty in wide - scale school? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u16	A respectable president. Hv. One senator noted that this was an example of the invention of the technology and development of innovation used by the public. You're absolutely right. In fact, the government also invented the atom bomb so that there are also examples of bad things invented by the government. It's still a matter of business, just one thing. Are we getting the results when it comes to our children's education? That's what it's all about, and the discussion must take into account. There is a big misunderstanding that there is some way in which we make sure that the professionalness of individuals is in such words when I call out for better results. That is why we made a special effort to read, and we had a number of international meetings to discuss this matter with students, parents, and students. It's an unacceptable situation for Iceland. I would have liked to hear it. Senator, former U.S. Marshal. Secretary of education, discuss these matters more seriously and agree with me that we have to change this. We will not be asked about the Icelandic people that we are in the same position as if we are going to... because this is what we're asking: The result is that our children have been seriously lost to their readings in recent years. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Then the question arises: Are we doing enough when it comes to innovation and discovery of new teaching methods to reverse it? The result is clear. [[The president calls.]] That is why we need to change and make the most of all of our powers and all ideas and all possibilities both inside and outside the system in order to avoid this position. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to be glad that we're back together at the Generals again, and especially because we have an opportunity to talk about it and talk at the top. Minister. If there is a role we have as a council and a government then there must be a future, looking at the opportunities of young people. In these last few weeks, we have seen information that gives you a measure of concern about a significant move from a country that has been more recent in spite of a number of economic developments, but we have already known that it is, in contrast to the times of crisis. At the same time, we'll hear from the Association of Professionals that 2 of you are needed. new Icelanders this year for the next 20 years to live under the welfare system. For Iceland it has to be very important to be competitive, that there is a good, varied, fun society in which young people can live, that may not move, and may consider moving. This leaves a person concerned that we are not doing our best in this regard. We hear a lot of stories that young people don't see opportunities, find it hard to get to a housing market and a job market. We see the increased unemployment of university students, doubtless for reasons, but one of the reasons must be that we are not successful in preparing and promoting newer jobs. I would like to give this thought to the highest degree. Prime Minister and ask him if he would not agree that this is a matter that we especially need to put in our mind, that we need a comprehensive policy toward young people, as well as to deal with specific matters in particular to ensure that our country's diversity and competitiveness.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u18	A respectable president. That was an unusual description from what happened. A senator who usually looks at the bright side. But I don't think in this case he has reason to be as pessimistic as the inquiry indicated. I agree with him on the importance of continuing to be competitive in our country and contributing to the greater diversity of opportunities. Indeed, the diversity has been growing and has become quite high, and the benefits of living here are quite great in comparison with virtually every other country in the world, no matter what international comparison we use to support ourselves. As for population growth in Iceland, it has continued. People continue to increase in Iceland, including the arrival of foreign scholars who teach at university and work for companies in research and development, and in many cases these people are moving here not only because of the tools available in these jobs but because they want to live in Icelandic society, it feels good here, Iceland has a lot to offer and is an attractive place to settle. When it comes to unemployment, it's not right. A senator noted that unemployment is increasing among academics. On the contrary. In Iceland, unemployment in recent losses have declined rapidly and, in fact, over the last few years, is much less than in control countries. However, in Spain, for example, there is an extremely difficult situation with young people's jobs, especially with academics. The same is true in many European countries. I could give a number of examples of countries where it is almost impossible for young well - educated people to find work in their own country. About 50% of Spain under 25 years of age is out of work. In fact, in many European countries, the same is true of Greece and unemployment, in contrast to the situation in Iceland, where we have been able to maintain a very high level of employment, as well as the multiplicity of jobs each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u19	A respectable president. I've got to say my bottom line. As a minister, the person standing here is more optimistic, but it makes it important for me to take the discussion and handle matters when we see evidence of it; I say, not to helicopter into the river, but to think that we are heading in the wrong direction. What I was thinking about is certain measures to help young people get into a career, an Icelandic community, and believe in a future in Iceland. There are signs that concern me, such as the fact that the loan fund of Icelandic students is reducing donations to students abroad, how difficult it has been for us to open to experts'employment permits to the country, which is actually taking on the bill of new alien law, housing, etc. On the contrary, I'm not saying that everything is cold, but I'd like to try to take the discussion before we're in some terrible shit like the highest level. The prime minister pointed out that some other countries have arrived. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u20	A respectable president. Prevention, like the rest of them. A senator describes the good and always reason to be alert and to wonder if it is not possible to do better. We will continue to work to improve the quality of our employment, improve the variety of jobs, create an even greater number of job opportunities, and increase the cost of Iceland even more, as the recent developments have been. I think that young people are quite capable of evaluating the benefits of living in the country themselves, they don't have to go into a campaign to make it clear because the comparison is quite striking, as I described earlier, when we consider what a man is actually lucky to grow up in Iceland and have opportunities to play which are waiting here for young people and others, compared to what is happening to all too many people, including very many and indeed, unfortunately, a respectable president, most European countries. In the case of housing matters, it is quite true that very important matters are being dealt with in many places. In Britain it is often said that it has become impossible for young people to enter the real estate market. While there are obstacles to these areas, as in other areas, there are obstacles. A senator named the government to work on solutions and to bring them to an assembly, I think, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u21	President. I congratulate the United States of Congress on being back to work after Christmas break. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether he feels that he is not a normal guide for his campaign and his party for his last election of reimbursement is a matter of Congress from him himself that would end up here in the council hall. Why does it have the highest power? The minister did not do so yet? I'd like to attract the highest attention. A minister says that the council has not had the best of luck to respect a tax adviser himself in its final term on a new constitution. In that case, it would be at the highest level. The minister would begin his journey to proclaim a national-removement fee, at the height of the time. A minister suggests that such a vote would be held? Is the Minister starting to prepare that process? When will the Senate be submitted? I also want to, in view of the highest. The prime minister wants his opinion of 66 gr. the constitution of the sentence of the nation in the Council of National Order in 2012 and adopted in the vote as the basis for our community, the article on the matter of engagement to voters. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Two percent of voters can present a bill for action or a proposal to be held at the General Assembly. Ten percent of voters can present a bill for the General. A general body can offer a counter proposal in the form of another bill. If the voter's bill is not retracted, it should be returned under national regulations, as well as by the Generals' bill. The Synod may decide that the national agreement is binding. The vote for a bill to suggest the voter should be performed within two years of giving the case to the General. Why is this article not included in the proposals of a management committee on the Supreme Court? Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u22	A respectable president. It was interesting to hear an increased opinion, at least in the first part of the inquiry, of course. A senator owns the government when it comes to business. A senator could not understand that the matter was to be handled not just by members of the council but by those of some national fees. However, as a matter of fact, in the latter part of the inquiry, I began to ask why it was not yet possible for the public to file a case at the council, thus contradicting the inquiry. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] A respectable president. To answer a question, why? This is a particular matter asked about in the direction that was immediately under discussion. A senator knows, has been given over to the government, and has worked accordingly. But I have nothing against it, and in fact, I consider it very desirable and thought that it was so. A senator would agree with me on this, that men may increase the possibility of direct democracy, further the possibility of paying national fees. Why, though, is the article not being considered? A senator read in the work of the Commission? Why do you ask me why? Is this what a senator wants me to do? Why don't she talk it over with a Pirata member of the Committee? [[Up front.]] I do not place this committee as to which articles to discuss or how to discuss them. The people had thought that the priorities would be set so that some specific matters would be settled first, and I thought that there was an excellent agreement. But now, over and over again, I find myself in queries and comments. Marty's members, like they're in some way trying to get out of this job, not want to follow it, are trying to find reasons why it shouldn't even run out, or can't be impossible. I've been asked why. A senator whether this will be a government case, a case specifically proposed as a collaborator of all categories, so I wonder, a respectable president: Is the work of the Constitution no longer supported by the pyramids?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u23	President. It is so specific what a prime minister can never answer questions. Rather, he always interprets the questions instead of answering them, being disrespectful. The prime minister to the council is quite remarkable. It is now that this committee is at the custody of the Supreme Court. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. A prime minister has prevented the committee from returning, now at the last meeting of the Committee, when it was found that it had been proposed by the forwarding party to withdraw the President's right to a national proposal. So great is the love of the advance party of the pure democracy that it is supposed to put the sky high barriers that make democracy almost impossible and at the same time suggest taking the court of speech from the president. Then it is clear that the highest. The prime minister was in a direct way in preventing the completion of this matter so that we could go to a national hearing along with the election. And the legs are still drawn. Let us not forget that the highest. The committee was not even able to appoint a representative for months. It's just weird and embarrassing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u24	A respectable president. All of it was very peculiar. Hv. A senator seems to be trapped in that belief, or at least he wants to paint a picture of this committee that was to be formed by the classes, a committee to work on the collective conclusions of the groups - why? A senator does not even want to hear the answer, a respectable president, running out here. This may be because I've met a weak spot and pointed out what is the real purpose of this inquiry and the real purpose of some of the comments I mentioned earlier, that the Pirats are going to blow up cooperation that has been achieved, a historic opportunity to make changes in the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u25	A respectable president. There is sad news in the Constitution if the prime minister is most busy finding fault in the case of corruption. But I don't mind making a note of it, so I'll turn it to the highest level. Prime Minister: Why is selling the share of the State at the Lands Bank so inconceivable? That's not clear. In contrast, there seems to be much to suggest that the Kingdom could profit greatly by holding it in its own form, both growing and rising prices. In comparison with that great advantage, offerings that the State needs to pay for are minor. It is difficult to see how the interests of taxpayers and the State can be guaranteed by these sales. This is how Frosti Sigurjónsson, president of the World Economic and Business Committee of the Generals and Councilman of the Agency, used to speak in the past month. I simply direct these questions to Prime Minister Frosti. Why is there such a hurry, asks Frosti, to sell the property at the Lands Bank immediately? It's not clear, says Frosti. The media have divided this senator's statement on a moneybook and has, in fact, claimed to publish it. It may be appropriate to ask the head of the Agency and the prime minister whether the advance party has become particularly aggressive against its own budget or whether the category has stopped selling the item in the current year or how this arrangement operates. But most of all, I think I'll be right about it. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, who is well - versed in financial and bank matters, noted that the income may be about 5 billion per year, but the cost is only 1 billion. Is that not obvious, then? Prime Minister, that the evaluation of the Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee is quite good and that it is simply not a good idea that was set in budgets for the current year to sell for 35 billion shares in the Lands Bank? Has a prime minister thought to revise this decision and abandon the plans of the government or to explain to me, to Sigurjónsson the son of Sigurions, and to the whole nation why is it so urgent to sell this thing immediately when it does not seem to be an especially favorable time for it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u26	It's directed to the president. Councilmen to address others'motives. Senators, full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u27	A respectable president. Thank you for asking. The answer is: The bank is not worth selling until people agree that it is desirable for the owner. However, I remind you that there has been a legal warrant from early in the last term when it was due. A senator was in a bigger part of the government, and if I recall the proper chairman of the Economic and Business Committee to sell the share of the state at the bank. However, it is not the government that directly deals with that object or with the council, that is, the government's bank administration that holds it. I have no doubt that the Bank Management Board will appreciate when and in what ways it may be desirable to sell an item at the bank. The government, in its time, took steps to protect the bank administration and considered it important to maintain an unchanged arrangement. All I expect is what I expect. A senator still believes that the bank office can be trusted for this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u28	A respectable president. I don't understand anymore. Is Iceland's prime minister responsible for the sale of the State of Iceland, 30% or not? Does the prime minister of Iceland feel that selling the item this year is a reasonable idea and a good protection for the nation's interests and taxpayers? Does he agree with the chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, Sigurjónsson Sigurionson, that this is an unreasonable time point to attack that sales? Does he agree with the head of the Economic and Business Committee that possession of the item is much better than selling it? When he says, "That's a good question, is he declaring it to the General that he shares the doubts of the head of the Economic and Business Committee? ' Does it not call for prime minister to use his own means to prevent this breakdown in this year, since he is the Director of the Government and the chairman of the government class leading the government? Of course, this matter will never be realized unless it is by the will and survival of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u29	A respectable president. I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hjörvar is about to sell the share of the state at the Lands Bank or other banks themselves. It is a process that would be the same as it would be during the last term when it was. A senator said that he would enter the budget year after year that there was a warrant for selling the State's share or part of the government's holdings in the Bank of the Lands. It's completely unchanged since then, so it's not supposed to come anyway. A senator so surprised that he maintains this arrangement but trusts in institutions to protect the interests of the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u30	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the building laws and management laws, No. 9/2009. The bill is made up of a group of working men who represented the Environment and Resource Ministry, Internal Affairs, the Union of rurals, Union and Energy Office of Reykjavík. At the same time, it is based on the work of Trausti Fannar Valsson, a judge of the University of Iceland, on the legal requirements of the courts for legislation and the terms of services. The beginning of this work is that Union and the Union sent to the Environment and Resource Minister and Minister of the Isthmian Union in the spring of 2013. In this verse it was requested that the necessary legal adjustments be made in relation to a householder's obligation to connect with local agencies and pay for that's legal services. These changes are in accordance with the State Department decision and the Environmental and Resource Commission as per law of No. 7/1998, the method of loyalty and pollution. The General Environmental and Transport Committee was given a comparable message from Union on August 28, 2012. In review of the Ministry case, it was clear that there were certain laws on the structure and management of the Agency to improve. So the main purpose of the bill is to explain rights and responsibilities in terms of the basis of remuneration. It is stated that all property items related to the urban network and where there is a connection to the limits of real estate will be required. In addition, additional charge for emissions is required. It is also recommended to set a maximum rate, which is a specific percentage of total weight estimates. In the absence of food prices, but a connection must be allowed to determine the irrigation fee taking into account the expected real estate assessment. However, the ability of a owner or manager of real estates to show that it is excluded that the specific construction of real estate will be linked to irrigation due to geographic or technical reasons or through the nature of its construction can be direct to the reporting of irrigation costs. In that case, benets, farms, and other special real estate rights defined as part of the real estate should form a substantial part of the price being excluded from the stress of irrigation fees. This will help us to take a service fee to take into account the user's services. It is also authorised to set a CA rate based on a fixed tax as well as stress due to the volume or area of all activities of property and/or use as measured. Finally, a change is proposed in order to overcome one network connection with a collection system that allows for the development of additional connections to remain in the community's real estate. Basically, there is physical harmony and the bill on a change in law No. 32/2004, through a rural water company, which the Minister of Internal Affairs will submit to the General Assembly below, and therefore they will be brought at the same time. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u31	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change to the surgeon's law and public health, no. 41/2007, with subsequent changes. The bill is written at the Ministry of Health, having agreed with the surgeon's office. By means of the bill, the changes to the treatment of public health funds are provided so that instead of running public health funds, the health minister is in the hands of a health minister to make decisions about how the fund's distribution strengthens that the laws of public health are controlled. The role of public health is to strengthen public health work that meets the objectives of the surgeon and the public health of both the inside and out of office in order to promote health and prevention. Since 2012 the management of public health funds has made decisions on how to expand the fund in accordance with the regulations and regulations set out by the fund. Since the same time, the Ministry of Health has provided grants to the public health and premeditated products of the body of financial organizations, which were preexamined by the World Council Fund. The aim of these changes was to ensure the transparent handling of applications for funding. An announcement from the 2011 General Assembly identified these changes as assuming that the Ministry is only sponsoring projects that do not fall under legal funds or agreements to the extent that they did not. Therefore, if this bill is to be legalized, the granting of public health and precursors will be better in line with the WHO's focus from 2011 to ensure transparency from the state's funds and current policy of expeditation provided by the health secretary according to a body of financial provisions at any given time, including: that there should be no provision for legal donations strengthens those who have been funded. This will prevent both candidates from being assigned to the same projects by means of collections of financial and public health funds at the same time. However, the bill suggests changes to the order of the public health fund. According to current law, the fund's administration is made up of seven representatives, four designated by a professional surgeon, two representatives of the surgeon general, and a president is appointed by the minister. The bill suggests that the number of the directors will be reduced by four representatives so that the surgeon's office will have one official instead of two highly qualified surgeons, who will not be represented by the government, and they will continue to assume that the chairman of the administration will be appointed by the minister. It is then suggested that one public health agent in the management board of the fund be designated by the National Institute of Health, where it is important that a representative from the educational community sit in charge of the public health department. The fund's new framework seeks to simplify and enhance efficiency in handling and dispensing applications. A respectable president. In short, I have explained to the core of the bill, but its objective is to contribute to the provision of public funds for distribution to promote public health and prevention. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that the bill doesn't suggest changes in the funding of the fund. It will continue to flow to the public health funds of the collection of alcohol fees in accordance with the legal requirements of alcohol and tobacco, the percentage of tobacco weddings, in accordance with the laws of tobacco prevention and the contribution of the state's funds as per law. This will strengthen the distribution to human health and precursors on the basis of professional knowledge. I allow myself, a respectable president, to suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee and to the 2nd. at the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u32	Mr. President. It is of course right and duty to review whether or not we can have a better environment for human health, formerly a reserve fund. But I find that some special problem or opinion was usually there. I don't recall running into it or hearing that it was not a general agreement on how the limited resources spent there have been spent, and it was very well understood by me in the present arrangement, where representatives of the procurator of the governor and two representatives from the office are in charge and making decisions about these appointments. It won't be much more beautiful than in the present system. When it is said that there will continue to be a professional action on this intervention, I will not question whether a government of three people offers such suggestions for a minister, of which one of the governor and another from the university's medical field. However, it could be said that there was an even greater width of the case in the current arrangement, with four professionals in the governor's office and two from the office itself. Second, I pause only to the argumentation of the bill that this will be better put in line with the general focus of 2011, by ensuring an increased transparency to the extent that this will do so. But I haven't given up the understanding, and I didn't suggest that the Council was, with the decision to transfer the museum to the council, and to stop making a financial committee sit over handing out a few hundred thousand or millions on a dozen small team, making comments on otherwise handling public funds in funds and other such. It usually depends on special requirements, etc. It was primarily a transfer of the distribution or exchange power that had been on the table of the budget at the Ministry of the local language. But I do not recall that during that discussion, there was a underlying tone of criticism of the role of legal funds and their administration or distribution committees where they were active. So I think it is a little far enough to go for a particular argument in this change for bringing the distribution power from the government of public health into the Ministry so that it is the Minister himself, on the basis of the fund's contribution, which does. I have not investigated the general mind of this, but I do allow myself to doubt that there may be more support in this kind of arrangement that the provision of distribution from the legal order of the matter into a fund of professionally appointed government into the Ministry itself. You can wonder what has been left behind in the role of the government of public health. Has it become much more than an account number, with the power of distribution moving into the Ministry? Does the fund really need control in itself? Wouldn't it be better to include in the law the advice on how to act on the proposal for the distribution of funding to a minister who makes the final decision? It's on the edge, I think, that it's under the name of talking about the management of public health funds when the power of distribution is removed from there, and then it just stands to watch out for the fund and then to make recommendations for distribution. To put it another way, I don't really think that this is all for the better and that it does me the right thing to look at. V.E.G. One minister noted, which can be seen from the bill, that it does not change the current budget available in these resources by 1% of alcohol charge, if I remember correctly, and the proportion of the gross selling tobacco that runs to the fund today remains unchanged. However, it would be interesting to hear a minister's attitude toward the advancement of these activities. It may be that on the table of members of the Parliament there are two prime products that both of us assume to do so. On the one hand, it is a bill that's going to move, just an independent decision, because it seems to be a reference to the fact that among various members of the council, it's a matter of raising the rate of alcohol in reserve funds or public health funds and, on the other hand, the product of booze in the grocery stores. It seems that then, suddenly, certain members of the body are very interested in making large contributions to public health against getting booze at a grocery store. I wanted to cut this issue off and discuss it on the basis of this: Is there a sound basis for it here at the council and what it says? A minister of that, regardless of everything else, should it be very well at home in such a bill, which is exactly about a public health fund's arrangements, to get into there some more money? Even if it were only a double price, and even in steps, it would greatly increase this activity. It does not directly follow up the demand, the size of applications and the extent to which these have been met in recent years, an assessment of the need. Of course, they can bring us into trouble. Committee. But I think it's a reason for this to be examined along the way and it would be interesting to hear a minister's attitude toward past miseries as to whether the minister feels that it is then only, if the arrangement of alcohol sales is changed, which is a reason to consider and promote human health or whether it might be appropriate for us to be independent.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. The speaker, who was in many ways very interesting and in connection with this small matter. The main reason I carry this bill is, in fact, that I'm encouraging looking at the council the effect of bringing funding into the governor's office in the form it is, i.e. The public health fund is funded 65% of the surgeon's activities and 35% goes to a so-called public health fund. Comments have been made in the discussion between the Constitution and the office, which have not yet appeared in any opinion or opinion, but have been discussed. I believe the council will discuss this role in the treatment of the matter. In addition, the second factor involved in the conversion of museum workers in 2011 of the council. It is inevitable to me that the change is discussed on the part of the council in the work of the public health fund. I've seen it myself in the Ministry's work, in the process of the so-called welfare strategists who are then assigned to cooperate with the council, that it includes tasks that overlap with projects to be the public health government, which is completely independent, then assigned. In this situation, without me saying anything about it, there is an overlap. Projects are likely to be supported at two places at the same time. No matter how the landing gets, I'm not going to do anything to myself about it. This is an incentive for us to examine this arrangement. I think it's in full need. It may well be that during the Parliament's treatment, it will be concluded that it is better to put control of the public health fund off and combine it under one hat and make it, as it were. A senator mentioned, some sort of adviser for the Ministry, in order to distribute the amount of money that is under there. That may well be so. In any way, I would not oppose any idea presented in connection with the discussion that this matter may arouse. I believe that it is necessary to coordinate in the manner of the limited money provided to the preservation through the public health funds or in the museums with the resources of welfare, is granted. It is vital to discuss how this is taken care of. I believe this is a chance. I can totally agree with the viewpoint presented here that there is a need to further the prevention of alcohol abuse, as well as tobacco protection. Fortunately, in recent years, we have had fine success in this regard, but I believe it is urgent to do better and that most of it is done by the surgeon general. Whether we are tobacco or alcohol, the most effective prevention of both has been shown to be a price control. In this respect, I can subscribe to ideas that are subject to raising the costs of these two factors, which are indistinguishablely the major causes of health problems. I declare myself ready to discuss all things in that regard. I expect this discussion to be followed by a welfare committee who is more effective in discussing the bill from all viewpoints, all of which are equally valid. The reasons why this is presented are the ones that I have tried to trace from the cover of the bill as well as from the talk I now give following my talk. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u34	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise the local water supply laws, No. 32/2004. The changes have to do with the definition and pressures of the water tax that is imposed on every property linked to rural water departments. The bill is co-administered with the Environment and Resource Minister's bill on the change in the Agency's building and operating laws, which I believe to be at the highest level. Ministers have recommended earlier today, but these changes have to do with the definition and pressures of irrigation fees in a comparable way. The bill was employed at the State Department in cooperation with the Environment and Resource Ministry, the European Union of Iceland, the Union of Community Union and Energy Agency, and as an expert at the U.S. High School of Laws, it was done in the development of more than one of the principles of the bill. The elements of the bill are two Supreme Court hearings from 2013 where there was a tighter interpretation of homeowners' obligation to pay the water tax than the water system had already built on it, on the other hand, on the start of the remuneration and on the other hand, on the interpretation of the terms 1 mgr. Section 6. The law says that it would be permitted to demand a water charge of all property that can be enjoyed by water. With this bill, the plan is to explain and trust more fully the foundation of water tax pressures as a service fee for the public services provided by the rural water department. In view of the demands that the Supreme Court makes for such stress. This service is primarily in the access to water that has real estates in shelters, regardless of how individual real estate owners operate the distribution of water within their own real estates. It is also a big security issue for all property owners to have safe and secure access to firewater, regardless of their other water uses. Second, it will be taken into account that water charge should take into account total real estate values or the size of all activities on property based on area and/or volume not measured, as has been done so far. Thus, the amount of water money in general will not affect how the owner of real estate chooses to use these services within its own real estates, for it is entirely his custody. However, certain exceptions will be from this principle, such as regarding the specific portions of real estate, which are shown to be unable to connect with water supply. V.E.G. President. As the bill was prepared, the possibility of performing the testimonials for all paying for water was explored and the charge of the price would be based only on measured use. The cost was found to be considerable. The cost of setting up the user instructions is such that it was not considered justified in going that way at this time. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and transport committees for proper discussion and 2nd management. Generalis.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u35	President Hithv. I recommend a bill to correct a change in general penalties and laws on counseling and training about sex and pregnancy and abortion and sterilization. The subject of the bill is the European Council's contract for prevention and combating violence against women and domestic violence, called the Istanbul Convention, adopted at the European Council on May 11, 2011, and signed by Iceland on the same day. In part, the bill is presented to validate the contract. The objective of the treaty and the bill of this agreement is to resist any form of violence against women and violence in close relationships. In part, according to the Istanbul Convention, it is described as a serious concern that women and girls often suffer severe violence, such as domestic violence, sexual harassment, rape, intermarriage, crime that is known to be responsible for the mutilation of sexual organs, a serious violation of the human rights of women and girls, and a major obstacle to the success of women and men. The request is first suggested that the bill be added to XXIII. a section of the general penalties of specific regulations for violence in close relationships or domestic violence and the kind of violence involved in the crime that could affect up to 16 years of imprisonment if it is gross. Has it set the goal to ensure that those who suffer severe or repeated violence on the part of close - to - heart protection are better than the current criminal legislation. The law specifically lists procedures that already include self - penalties according to penalties - much of this is involved - that result in law punishment, violence, threats, depravity, and forcedness. However, violence in close relationships can be manifested in many other ways, such as by social violence, suffering from family and friends, and even preventing them from attending school or work; in spiritual violence, where gross and repetitious scenes are used; in economic violence, where a worker is deprived or restricted by money and so forth. In view of this, it is suggested that the punishment of the penalty of the law will not be bound to an action that may already include punishmental behaviour, under the general law, but will also take place if life, health, or well - being are threatened in another way that cannot include personal penalties according to the current law. In this regard, it is especially important to note that the general physical, physical, and physical laws of the penal court involve the nature of the matter according to the nature of physical violence, not physical violence, such as oppression, threats, or humiliation, which is a common manifestation of violence in close relationships. Is the new law designed to deal with this and has been turned aside from viewing violence in close relationships as a collection of individual cases, and the attention to the ongoing threat and spiritual suffering it brings. This includes symbolic recognition by the Lawgiver of such offenses, as well as the fact that domestic violence is not a personal family but is a matter of community involvement and is a problem that will arise. Is it important that this social attitude be reflected in the WHO legislation, and the message is that it is a case of conduct that is not tolerated in a democratic society? In the legalization of a specific penalty as well as the rise of a series of violent crime frames in close relationships, there are also certain and important protective and protective effects. Then one of the objectives of the law is to increase the right protection of children suffering from domestic violence. Thus, the law protects all children who are in a position to be threatened by life, health, or well - being, whether the activities used to create the threat directly against them or against the immediate ones. V.E.G. President. The creation of the Istanbul Convention does not require a special penalty principle, of violence in close contacts, to be placed in a general penal law. However, such things are very much in the spirit of the agreement, and to achieve the goals described there, it is well - known that those who tolerate violence in close relationships are primarily women and children. This is also in accordance with legal development in other countries, and Norway has been particularly regarded in this regard. Second, it is suggested that the bill be added to the 225rd requirement. a new legal sentence on a forced marriage agency that will be punished by forcing another person to marry or under a similar form of dedication that does not have legal value. The forcedness of another person in marriage must be considered a gross violation of privacy and self - determination rights for an unattainable victim. Thus, the law aims to protect an action of freedom, and it establishes a personal right to choose a mate without interference from others. It is suggested that prisons, up to four years, be forced to have another man marry or to have a similar dedication, even though it does not have legal value. Finally, the bill includes changes in the law of law and correctness of general penalties on counseling and training about sex and pregnancy, and on abortion and sterilization procedures, No. 25/1975. This requirement includes the recommendation that the expiration date due to certain fractures for children should not be started until the age of 18 - year - old child. An expiration period in Icelandic law is in accordance with the terms of the contract if no abortion is reported without mother's consent, as 2 mgr. 216. gr. a general penalties and penalties due to forced sterilization, as stated at 31 st. legal advice and instruction regarding sex and pregnancy, abortion and sterilisation, and law No. 25/1975 is suggested that the expiry date due to the violation of these measures not be started until the child involved has reached 18 years of age. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the main subject of the bill. I'm asking for the bill to be sent to what? General and educational committees for the proper treatment and management and 2nd management.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u36	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for her history, and I'd like to declare it because I'm opposed to the fact that I really support this bill. I believe that it is very good and important to make this change in general penalties and to strengthen the battle so that violence can be dealt with specifically against women and including domestic violence. I'd like to speak to the highest. A minister because we have now lost much of our discussion of violence against disabled people. A study conducted in one area, including a laboratory study of disability, shows that most of the disabled women who have been victimized by violence or violence have been closely involved in domestic violence or violence, but it is also noted that women living in institutions or in specialized farms have also described violence and ongoing abuse of their own households. I'd like to take these matters into context. While the Council was on leave, the Supreme Court gave an answer. Imperial Minister to my inquiry regarding the work of the police in the country and how the education of violent offenses against disabled people in general and disabled girls and women would especially be used in education by police officers and judges. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would agree with me in that we need to strengthen the way these factors are dealt with when there are suspicions of violence, especially against disabled women, in order to provide laws like this for all women.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u37	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this inquiry. It must be made very clear that, of course, this law is intended to include all women, all those who suffer violence in close relationships, such as men. So naturally, we know that there are frequent children. This is the purpose of the law. As I mentioned in my introduction, we had no legal obligation to change the general law of justice in the way this is done. It did not result from the contracts to do so because it violates the other laws of the law referred to there. The action referred to there is unorthodox, punished on the basis of public penalties. However, the design of a special law is taking care of the overall work that we think is very important, reflecting not just today but the high evolution of the penalties and the constant development. I want it to be perfectly clear that, of course, all women are being talked about. Then be sure to agree with that. A senator says that we need to be more concerned with keeping up with the factors involved in these and various other offenses as well. That is exactly what we are doing when we look to police officers. There was a report, I think it's fixed in a year ago, because of sexual abuse. Then it was being brought to the attention that there may be a reason to look more closely at law - enforcement education. It was not the least of the officers themselves who called for it. Those who work in this find the best place to squeeze the shoe. The lawgiver then tries to follow through. There we are taking a very large step, I believe, in the evolution of a penal court. I can't wait to get this case back to the General and Education Committee. I know it's getting very good coverage there. Here, we are really talking about the evolution of the penalty for the future. A chapter of the penalties can be taken out, although at times I have been fondling a complete review does not make it necessary for us to take out a chapter and a chapter and after a lot of work, we will see this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u38	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and the fact that this bill should reach all women. I certainly do not doubt that this is the goal and that, of course, it should be that way. I'd like to repeat what I said. I think there's a need to think about the research so that it really will. That's why I want to direct it to what's happening. The committee, who sees the matter to include in the discussion that it needs to be strengthened so that women who are disabled can seek their own rights and that the general law can control them as well. That should be kept in mind. I would also like to point out that this bill includes adding regulations relating to law No. 25/1975, abortion and sterilization procedures. It also needs to be especially concerned about the interests of disabled people, for as was shown in response to a question from the question given. paritaprevir Páll Björnsson Bearson of sterilization procedures, I think it was proposed last November, in recent years some sterilization procedures have been performed on disabled children, eight girls and one boy aged 15 to Drinks. We also need to take good care of the way that this legislation is being conducted and how the decision of sterilization is being made so that the system, so to speak, cannot be broken by disabled children. These are the things I wanted to be kept in place in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u39	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing attention to these matters. We have given special attention to the Ministry to look into the activities of these matters. Because of what? A senator draws out disabled people who have every reason to do so, and we have generally seen the project. We will and will, of course, take that group with us into it. It is very important that there is a voice here that speaks very firmly to that group so that there is no danger that people do not look at the specific needs there, which can naturally be a little different from those of all health, although I think that those in this situation have tolerated such things that it is difficult for healthy people to put themselves in that direction. I'll take it as a dog. A senator says and listens to it about the work we are doing in the Ministry. Similarly, I'm sure those members of the General and Education Committee will look at the bill as it is and if there's any reason to pry there. Of course, a judicial committee has made a key difference in writing this bill. We got the best in Iceland and, of course, look around us on the Committee, I named Norway earlier. I hope the foundation is good. All work, however, can be improved and better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u40	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize consumer contracts. The bill includes the implementation of the European Parliament's Directive and of the Council 2011/83/EU from 25 October 2011, on consumer rights. This directive replaces the Council's Directive 85/577/EEC of December 20, 1985, to protect consumers when contracts are made outside fixed employment areas, and the European Parliament's Directive and Council of 97/7/EC of 20 May 1997 for consumers' protection in terms of telematic agreements. Both commands have been introduced here in law No. 46/2000, about housekeeping and teleportation contracts. It is therefore clear that in order to implement the Directive 2011/83/EU, the law needs to be changed. For simplicity, a new total law on the subject is suggested. It is important that the laws and rules aimed at ensuring consumer rights are clear. So I've decided to ask for a full review of the consumer legislation, considering that it will be made easier, more beneficial, more complete. The aim of the directive to be implemented by this bill is to conform the EU Member States' rules to agreements outside fixed employment stations and telematic agreements and on which items of the seller are obliged to inform consumers before the contract of purchases or services is committed by consumers. The directive is thus aimed at ensuring the improvement in consumer interests. The bill was presented on the Ministry Web, and a two - week extension was made to comment. Notes were received from the Netothal Office and the Neighbours Association. The bill has taken into account the comments made by these individuals, which were primarily directed by the wording and the title of the law. The bill is primarily about the rules of contracts made outside fixed labour stations and telecommunications agreements. Il. However, a section of the bill contains specific information guidelines for other agreements made with consumers. The main changes to the implementation of the directive are: First, a stricter standard of agreements outside fixed labour centres and telecommunications agreements, such as confirmation of contracts and the application of information. Second, the rights of consumers to fail a contract is clear, but the principle remains that a consumer has 14 days to do so. I have now explained the basic subject of the bill and in other respects referred to comments that follow the bill. If the bill is legal, this means increasing the rights of consumers to information and to cancel a contract. The changes are certainly burdensome for sellers of goods and services, but it is worth considering that harmony with the principles in the EEA area can make it easier for Icelandic segregators to sell their products abroad. A respectable president. Now that I have finished speaking, I suggest that the bill be referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-19-63.u41	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the policy of new investors on the deck. 505, 372th case. The Government Treaty states that new investors need to be developed in Icelandic employment and to improve the competitiveness of Iceland. In order to give a clear explanation of the government's emphasis on new investors in view of the development of the past few years, I propose this proposal to be a synonym for a new investment policy. The increased new investors in Icelandic employment are one of the reasons for long-term economic growth. McKinsey's 2012 Mckinsey report on the Icelandic economy points out that in Iceland production is about 20% lower than in principal control countries. In order to improve the environment for new investors, which could give new support to the international sector based on international competitive knowledge companies with high productions and value productions. New investments refer to investments that increase the variety of industry, bring new knowledge and technology, and promote the competitiveness of the country. Both the design of a new project or a new activity may be involved in the country, as well as an independent addition to an earlier project. Foreign investments over the last few decades have focused on the use of energy resources and the building of energy efficient industry. In the past three to four years, however, we have seen a great variety and a positive growth in new investors on the land. We will see that there are many opportunities and interest in new investments in Iceland is increasing. I can mention, for example, recent investments in the fields of biotechnology industry, data organisms, sunshine, pioneers in the science industry, sceptical companies of all kinds, health - related services, and tourism. This increasing variety is a very positive development, and it is vital that governments support it as possible. In fact, we are in today's sought - out position to choose between new investors, so it is important to have certain standards that reflect the issues of the government when it comes to new investors. With such a guide, there is a more targeted way to promote a species of newinvestment that is most likely to have the most positive economic, social, and environmental impact in the long term, i.e. that we can have priorities on our terms. That's exactly the point of the synopsis proposal. It is vital that we continue to look for new ways to create a variety of future activities that appeal to a larger group of young people who have knowledge and education in different fields. It should be noted that around new investors, secondary knowledge and services companies can develop from the primary functions established by the investment. In the process presented here in the form of a synonym proposal, it provides a set standard that should be guided by new investments in Iceland and reflect government emphasis. In particular, the Council of Parliament concluded that the General concluded that new investors should be promoted in Icelandic employment and the competitiveness of Iceland in the area of new investors. In order to accomplish this, new investment projects should be emphasized as defined by the following factors: 1st Based on Iceland's strengths and specialations, 2 contributes to increased polymorphism and secondary induction activities, 3. contributes to the growth of international competitive knowledge industry, 4 is supported by the latest and best available technology and environmental guidelines, The 5th create a national value supplement and have a multiplication effect, e.g. working with Icelandic company and investments in Icelandic innovation companies, 6 gives as much credit as possible and introduces new knowledge. In general comments on the synonym proposal, there is more explanation and discussion about these six points, and I refer to them. Over time, government policies on innovation have often been promoted and included here at the General Assembly. In this context, it is proper to call attention to the new words found in the Senate arrangement. It should first emphasize that policy has to do with domestic and foreign investments. From an equal policy, foreign investors may not benefit better than domestic ones. The policy of new investments that I recommend underscores the policy in which it is applied to the term '-new investing', not to the foreign investment's unsolved. Therefore, the fact that the investment is of domestic or foreign origin is not made up of any distinction, since there is no reason to do so. Another important change is that policy measures are taken in order to set priorities for new investing projects. However, the demand for a range of goods, which Iceland can offer investments, opens up the possibility of making the best choice if many are available. The policy stresss that new investment projects should be given long - term success, and for that purpose, six emphasis is defined as I traced before. The six factors can lead to greater success with increasing sector diversity and growth in domestic activities. So emphasis opens the way for a set set priorities. It should be noted, then, that special emphasis is placed on increasing diversity and secondary domestic activities. Based on the strengths of Iceland, which are listed in public comments, particularly on investments that are suitable for Iceland's image and that are able to produce independent secondary work, a high proportion of valuable jobs that strengthen national knowledge bases, attract highly educated staff, create well paid jobs and connect to a national scientific and innovation environment. The policy, among other things, is based on McKinsey's above - mentioned report on Iceland's future application, the work of consultations on increase in prosperity, and the focus of the labour market. Thus, international sector, innovation, technology, and the educational industry are under special emphasis. The basic factor is that the new investment can lead to a benefit beyond that of the investment itself. Hence, it is emphasized that the investment can result in a secondary industry that can grow and thrive on its own terms. The policy puts much emphasis on the international sector. Economic growth has been pointed out to be largely based on the growth of the global sector, which is the educational industry and competes for a global competitive market. It is important, therefore, to focus attention on enterprises in the international sector in relation to new investors. It has, for example. Recently, with the development of an aluminium cluster, an important step toward producing more knowledge companies connected with the aluminium industry, as has been done by the Icelandic cluster and the cluster. In the international sector, we find the largest growth opportunities in Iceland. There are companies of all sizes and in every profession. They share in building on intelligent pioneers and progressive knowledge, and they are often successful because they can grow rapidly and thus take the lead in international competition. Among the enterprises of the international sector here in Iceland are Actavis, Nox Medical, Minentis Cura, Marel, 66°N, Plain Vanilla, Icelandic genetic analysis, etc. According to Mckinsey's analysis published in accordance with guidelines for the increase in economic prosperity, the global sector lasted in 2012 below 12% of gross domestic product, which is relatively low compared to that of other countries. The proposals for our discussion will show that the worldwide sector needs to grow in 18% to cover 3.5% interest up to 2030, corresponding to the worldwide sector's contribution in Denmark in 2009. To achieve this growth, the international sector has to be tripled to 2030. It is important that the state's marketing and presentation activities associated with new investors are in line with the priorities of the policy and will be further implemented in accordance with the Community agreements, such as those listed in the Member States. Iceland's investment area. Mr. President. Finally, I'd like to suggest that this proposal for the resolution of a new investment policy that I recommend here was carried out at the Directorate-Advelopment Ministry in good cooperation with the National Institutes of Iceland, the Association of Professional Livings, the New Arts Centre and those bodies that appoint the sector of international investments, but within that group it was the opinion of SA, ASI, and others that it was important that governments should shape themselves on this basis which is laid here. So I think that this proposal for action is being made on a more successful way to promote a targeted and clear structure of innovation in Icelandic commercial life, thus increasing Iceland's competitiveness. Therefore, I believe that the proposal should be able to make peace and solidarity here at the great General Assembly. V.E.G. President. I suggest that the synopsis proposal will be followed by this discussion referred to why. Business committee.
