ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u1	To answer, Ministers of Economic and Economic Affairs, Education and Culture, Industrial and Business Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u2	Mr. President. Now before the weekend, Iceland's interests in the north were introduced, and this was in connection with the 20th anniversary of the Council of North Pole, where I was actually serving an excellent seminar with the Supreme Court. Secretary of state on the challenges ahead in Arctic affairs. The interest evaluation is based on a resolution adopted here in 2011, where the Council was running a policy in the affairs of the north. In the past decade, of course, much has changed. There has been an increase in political importance, especially in connection with the changes in the environment, climate change, in which some people see opportunities to save and to use more resources than others see the dangers of developing countries in the North, not just for the area but the whole. In fact, I think, and I'd like to discuss it with the highest. Minister, that this evaluation of interest should be discussed at the General Assembly. This, of course, has to do with the General how we see our best interests taking place here in the north. What I'd like to ask the highest, too. A minister can see when you read this food that it's there, we can say, both try to keep the cake and eat it. The evaluation says that balance between tools and bars is important, using resources to benefit the population of the north without threatening environmental quality. At the same time, however, environmental changes are much faster in the north. Its warmness is twice as fast as the warmth of the bottom of the earth. Nevertheless, there are a great deal of resources being spent in the North Sea, especially with the use of carbon, which more and more people are placing questions in ever more political groups in Iceland as well as elsewhere. So I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers as to whether there is no reason to make a significant contribution to the use of resources in the northern regions, where there are several struggles to use these assets because of the risk to the environment and to the world throughout, resulting from the same use. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good inquiry and would like to first say that, of course, we were very happy to present the four aspects of this conflict of interest. First, consider international trends, secondly global warming, industrial development and resource use, and fourth, transport and transport. Another thing I like about this report is that it is also about that opportunity and the challenges. I agree with a senator that I'm probably interested in discussing this interest here at the council, and I think that any discussion will benefit me, so I agree. In terms of having a definitive declaration that we are preventing using natural resources in this area, I'm not entirely sure that we have come long enough by diagnosis and other factors to be absolutely complete. But I'm clearly saying that the delicate nature of this area needs to be enjoyed by the doubt, but I think we need to take a closer look at it, and the rest of it, we're looking a lot to the Norwegians for all the details involved in this series. They have been exemplary, and I stress that we look for cooperation with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u4	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, in fact, thinks it would be good if we had more time to discuss these matters, since this is a big deal for Iceland. We see the impact of climate change not only on a global scale when it comes to the rise of sea level and sea levels but also on the sea around us, where the acidification of the sea has become a major concern for us as a fishing nation. That is why it is of utmost importance how it is playing out if, as it turns out, we see the continued melting of ice in the Arctic, possibly an increased risk, and not only an increased risk of local contamination from oil processing or other such factors. It could mean major changes to Iceland if we just watch it out of our narrow angle. I think when it comes, e.g. to the oil industry at home, and to that end my movement has concluded, we should reexamine that policy and abandon the oil processing plans. There have been other groups at the council. That's what matters. Here we look at the vast wealth that can be won, but for a long time it will even bring in more disaster than good things for mankind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u5	A respectable president. What a joy it was to share in celebrating the 20th anniversary of the Arctic Council! One of the factors presented is the conduct of the governing body and what has been proposed. I think we need to make a great deal of effort to speak for these matters in the way we've been doing, i.e. We need to make sure that the two legal binding agreements adopted by the Council of North Pole, between search and rescue, and thus protect against oil pollution, become more important. You're right. A senator says, this is of utmost importance to us, and therefore I greatly welcome the two legal contracts recently adopted by the Council of North Pole. Another contract involved in science and research in this area, where we should direct our strength and take a closer look at it and look also toward the Norwegians. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u6	President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to whether he would not share my concerns about the funds that come from bank taxes and should have gone to the countryside to face changes that became part of his own savings when the so-called correction went through. That's when local societies lost their income. It is estimated that in 2015 the responders to Reykjavík dropped by 1.1%, but e.g. In Garville, Kópavogi, and Mosfellsville, they decreased by 1.4%. It's a natural substantial income. It is estimated to be 4◯4.5 billion in the period in which these rules apply. It's been here in salt for over a year's bill that this money goes to the country's Slurpee Fund. I'd like to ask the minister if he doesn't share my concerns that this is a big problem for the locals, and we'll see and hear about it every day. As a result, I say if this is to slip into the equation fund and follow general rules there, it is quite clear that money will not slide into the countryside to the same degree as the loss of income. This concerns me very much, and I think it's sobering. I would like to ask the secretary if he would not share any concerns with me and if he would not put pressure on his colleagues in the government and the members of the Commission to resolve this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u7	A respectable president. I would have felt that obeying the local view that something would be needed because of the loss of income that resulted from the government's action on the tax charge. I have held it in this public address that there are other things that will meet. But that doesn't change the fact that I supported the bill on this subject, as it was assigned to the council. I think it happened three times before the council. It hasn't been delivered yet. I find that very sad. If I know correctly, the main reason why the matter has not been handled is that members of the council want to listen to the points of the government. There has been a conflict between those who stress that they earn their income in what is best and that the loss of income has been the same. A senator mentioned, and the others saying that these revenues should be returned to the countryside on the basis of the common rules of equation. Our hope for members of the Parliament, who have had the case in hand, was that our communities could resolve these differences, that the case could be discussed at that point, and that they could produce some conclusions through a conversation between the local community. Sadly, that has not been the case. Meanwhile, the council has gathered dust. It's a worry, like a bang. A senator mentions, and possibly at some point simply cut the knot.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u8	President. I'm going to say that the council doesn't have to cut the knot at any point. Now the Senate has to cut the knot. I think something about people - of course, conversation and consultation, and if they can reach a mutual conclusion in harmony and harmony, and everyone can be happy and happy, then that's good, it's naturally best. But it's also that's why smaller things are and more things and sometimes things have to be controlled, and sometimes it doesn't mean to let things just, what to say, delay, and delay. It's clear to me that this is a problem for the locals. And I'm going to allow myself to say, even though someone probably says I'm not comfortable with a ball, it's very bad for the capital, and it's very bad for the district. Minister. [[The president calls.]] I challenge him to resolve this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u9	Mr. President. It is absolutely true that the damage, if it might be called damage, might rather be the effect of the changes we made at the time, has been shown in different ways to farm society. That does not mean, however, that the communities who have wanted and distributed this money on the basis of the common rules of the equation do not have a point. I have felt that it was the most just thing to do that would be distributed according to the way the effect has been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Secretary of state on matters that must be considered national security. There was a lot of big talk in the political field this weekend, but one of the news that was flying in the former highest. The prime minister and current head of the advance party claim that he was burglarized. In a word, they said what they said. paritaprevir This weekend, Bill Davíð Gunnlaugsson, at the forward party council convention: ▪ I know my computer was broken into. Of course, when it comes to such news, you wonder, " What will be the result of public activity? ' Now the national security issue is under the highest pressure. Secretary of state. I know the lake is setting up a special national security strategy. Such an examination must take place in the event of such information. Where did this break-in happen in a computer at the highest level? Prime Minister? Who did that? When was this done? What investigation is being carried out to ensure that such a thing does not recur? They've already found out what information was in the computer at the highest level. Prime Minister when the computer was broken into? Is it not national security? Why not take such statements seriously? I don't have every reason for being the chief. Secretary of State calling the National Security Council together to review this? Other such factors have led to reports, e.g. in the United States of Poland, where the affairs of the former foreign minister and its use by e - mail and personal e - mail have been discussed for months and is precisely a national security issue. When such statements are made, they must be called for answers. I'd also like to add it, "You know what I mean." Minister of Foreign Affairs watching the foreign expeditions? [[The president calls.]] That she is being followed or tried to break into her computer?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. For the first time, I'd like to inform him of the National Security Council Act, this September 1 was approved. It is the prime minister who leads the National Security Council, so unfortunately it is not the foreign minister who does so. Nevertheless, I think it is extremely important for such an event to be examined. I'm sorry, I can't answer this at this point, because calling the National Security Council together is not my concern, but it's a good point, and I think it's probably necessary to take a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u12	A respectable president. I ask this question because I have a feeling that the government will accept this declaration. Gunnlaugsson Just a little careless. I won't. I think it's a serious matter if we are informed that we can break into the computer of the country's prime minister. I demand the government that such statements be taken seriously, to investigate. This must be on the Board of Government Meeting tomorrow, right? That they're going over, the Ministers are divided between their own information and whether or not they've been burglarized, whether they're being followed in foreign countries, etc. It's got to be a serious issue when it comes to information like that. We must turn that information into a formal approach so that it's done and we know it, the public in the country, whatever it is that has access to national security, public interest, and whether these matters are handled in order to ensure that they can trust that this is not just left on the line of public security and anyone who is accessed into the computers that are in the management of the nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u13	A respectable president. What I think is going to happen now is that this case will be reviewed, and it is the government that is responsible for what will do so. We need to see if the prime minister calls national security advice together for this. There may not be much more to say about the progress of the matter at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u14	V.E.G. President. It's like the highest. We have an unexpected and complex situation in construction at Húsavík. The locals and all of us have had a lot of expectations for this structure, and people are naturally upset by the position established after the temporary decision-making committee of environmental and resource resources. I'm not entirely certain that the Council saw the interpretation of the law that has led to this grave position. I think I can say that most of the business is concerned with solving this matter in a way that is successful for most people. I know it's the highest. I agree with a secretary of industry, and I know that she has given serious thought to this matter and to the solution. That's why I want to ask the highest. Industrial Minister how she and the government are going to respond to a position established by the decision of the Environment and Resource Committee which upsets part of the line layer into the industrial region. Of course, I remind you that time runs out of us because in this area work time is not 12 months a year but perhaps six to seven months. I reiterate my question to the highest. Minister: How will she and the government react to this gravely serious situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u15	A respectable president. I really share worry with each other. A senator of this matter. This assignment, such as those in this hall, is known for its origin in the last term when special laws were given on this project. The government then supported this project, and the present government has worked very faithfully to initiate this project from the time we began. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that the situation today was not predictable, and I don't think anyone, even us, here or those who said that the sentence of a new nature protection laws, was not intended to present the tasks that had already begun in such confusion. Hv. A senator asks what I intend to do or what we intend to do in the realm. Then I'll be able to inform you that this is a matter that has to do with more than one department because I am subject to the Environment and Resource Commission and investment agreements. Therefore, the pressured prime minister is being taken into consideration between the advisers'means of dealing with this, ways that would certainly solve the matter but not create more. That's what they're doing. I'll make sure of what. The senator that everyone is very aware of the need to resolve this matter, especially in my department. I've had my season before, including the season. helped me get the approved changes in electricity laws that should prevent such an event so that controversy and disagreements about projects are fully resolved in the early stages and can be completed and that they will not be upset once they have started, as is a good example. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u16	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the answers as far as they can go and that she shares my concerns about this. It has been quite a while since the decision - making committee took its own temporary decision. The case is ticking, and it's very serious not only because of the project, because of the local community, but also because of Iceland's reputation outside. Here the government has made a contract by law set up in its last terms, and this government has carried out, and it has also been successful in this regard. May I remind you, Mr. Honorable President that environmental assessment has been conducted. In the main organization of the three relevant rural partners, all of this is expected. As I said, it's a serious reputation, and we can't stand long waiting. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: When does the government come, because it is probably two agencies, suggest a solution, and what will it be? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u17	A respectable president. As I said before, I share this concern, and I am well aware of how urgent it is to resolve this matter quickly and safely. That's what they're working on in the government field. The reputation is at stake. We immediately find that there are questions that our people, who are preparing Iceland as an investment option to make, are few who show that they might immediately expect some effect of this. Of course, we want to be that kind of state, and we have already prepared the administration and are working for years to see that when the law is passed, when it is signed, it is. I can assure you what. The senator's work to do is that it can also be done. However, the decision - making committee is independent in its jobs, especially for the development of the confirmation of the former government, or government, of course. A senator sat in, on the so - called Árús agreement that can be attributed to this matter at this point. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The thing is reversed, but it's being resolved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to ask about the budgets for the poets in Akureyri; David House, Nonhouse, and Victory Hill. I sent a written inquiry to the Ministry, and I got an answer some time ago that I don't think is good enough, that's a little referred out and south. I'm asking why this poethouse didn't get any business grants from the state since 2012. These institutions are referred to as entering the national part of the network. However, there are museums in this country that receive grants directly from the Ministry of Education. Obviously, it doesn't matter who it is. When asked how a minister was equal to the poets' houses and three other comparable cultural status in the country, the answer is that there is an agreement between the Ministry of Education and Culture; Grens Institute, Snortobu, Glofrastein, and Thorbergsets. The question arises: Why do we have agreements with some poethouses and not others? What is needed to achieve such a contract? Now I know that Akureyri City and head of the Minja Museum in Akureyri is holding hands on the museum business, but the Minjak collection is hardly gonna part it anymore. Do you need to know someone at the Ministry or what's the point? Can I offer the highest. Minister of coffee at the cafeteria later, and we're gonna make this deal? I'd like to know. I think it's extremely important that the public spending is equal. If any collections like these three receive no money from the state, then why? Is that just?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry and would like to say that it is true. A senator points out that there is not one simple rule underlying here. The problem may be that there is nothing in itself that prevents e.g. Company or individuals, let's stick to our communities, can decide to set up a collection operation, e.g. A poet's house to celebrate the memory of a poet who's lived in that community without having to ask the government's permission. Such an assignment can be initiated. Then a question arises: If a rural society has decided to start such a project, will the government automatically set up an obligation to meet the local community with financial contributions? There is, of course, the underlying question here. This is actually true for other such cases, i.e. Companies. We've been talking at the council before, for example. The subject of the National Music Museum in Kopavogi, where the underlying issue is, in fact, the establishment of the State. Kopavogstown has not been comfortable with that approach. There's a lot of examples of this. I have to admit, while there's not one rule under it, it's a little hard to say that this poet or the other poet, that the memory of the person is such that the state should come near. It's very difficult to settle between the poets in this regard. I can accept that with what. A senator that it is a bit harsh not to be a rule about this, but it comes about that if the country club decides to start with a poethouse, such as It would be an object of great importance to start banning such things. This situation can always arise. But I'm ready to discuss all the time, and I'd like to take this cup of coffee below if it's changing, but I'm not sure that it will solve the point I presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u20	A respectable president. We're not talking about some random collections that Akureyri City may have decided to pull up ten years ago. Nonause is the oldest collection of authors in the country. It was set up in 1957. A collection of more and less volunteer work has been done. It was on budget for a while. However, in 2012 the museums eventually entered the Ministry, which I thought was the right step. Because I don't think the senators are supposed to be driving around with any million here and there in their own district. But then we must be confident that things are being handled professionally. I'm going to allow me to claim that David House, Nonahouse, and Victory Hills are the important collections that I find strange if the state does not come to their affairs. That's what I have to say. And then I just want it confirmed here. If these are museums that the state is not supposed to come, there must be a lot of museums that the state should just pull out of. I'd like to state that I don't regret the money that goes to the other poethouse. [[The president calls.]] They're very important. I have visited all of them, and they are doing a good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u21	A respectable president. Hv. Since I must not be misunderstood by a senator, I am making up some way between these collections or the writers taught by the museums or in some way beinglittled by the museums established by society. What I'm talking about is the principle we need to consider: How to handle it when it's done by a rural, Akureyri town or someone else, let's say, tomorrow we'll decide to remember a poet who's lived in the countryside by setting up some kind of museum? What, then, should be the rule of working there to deal with this? Should we keep it in such a way that it is done only in cooperation and consultation with the government, making sure at the outset that the funds will come from a trust fund? Or how would we picture it? It's important to realize this. But I told you before, and again. A senator has a point when it is possible to point it out, but unfortunately, it is hard to reason, for example, on the part vegna Davíð the son of Stephen or then on the other side vegna of Halldór Laxness, etc. [[The president calls.]] These are all remarkable and important poets, which are of great importance to Icelandic culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u22	Mr. President. In the early stages of this case, I made strong comments to certain parts of the bill. They were particularly interested in monitoring the political wiretaps of the past and the means to prevent them from being carried out again in the future. When I read the committee opinion, I realize that it has been taken much into account the viewpoints I presented here. It specifically points to the opinion of the administrative and monitoring committee where work is expected to be started, including with the presence of the council, to consider options to ensure that this cannot happen. In that light, I rejoice that they have been listened to that viewpoint. Therefore, I support this matter as it is presented in the present form.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u23	President. I'd like to be glad that there was a tip taken into account from a management and surveillance committee in this case. I'm very pleased with it and with the piranha that they've taken care of a number of things, such as that. that they were missing into this issue when it first came to the council's program or was discussed with consciousness about so - called metadata or metadata, the degree of privacy involved and, in fact, much more than the calls themselves. The treatment given to the management and monitoring committee was particularly enjoyable and largely improved the bill. I'd like to thank you for being considered on top of the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u24	A respectable president. I also want to thank you for your cooperation in this matter and for the important changes proposed by the committee. These changes are essential for me and for the matter to be supported. We do it because the changes are good and the cooperation has been very good. I think there's a reason to mention that when it comes to such matters, wires and similar things that authorities are doing, it's always very dangerous when the project is different from what the lawgiver has planned. Hence, it is extremely important that, in time, we are conscious of how these laws work after these changes. There are elements in the community, within the system that tend to expand their authority to use all their resources and to demand more and more authority. This pressure will never disappear. Therefore, it is vital that we always keep on guard against him. But I'm glad that this whole case is a sign that, at least, it's still true that the lawgiver is ready to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u25	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion of a change to bill for the change in fish management law, No. 116/2006, with subsequent changes, about herring and macular. The committee has discussed the matter and suggests an exposé of Article 1. The bill. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: B- team one. Let us put it this way: 1st sentence of 3 mg. The price of fishing in herring and mackerel, according to 1st. But at every hour the same money and the price of the fish for the silver and the mackerel, according to the law on the fishing, No. 74/2012. Jón Gunnarsson, Björt Ólafsdóttir and Kristján L. Möller were away at the hearing. Under these publications. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Egilsdóttir Eglursdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u26	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to say a lot about this proposal presented by a professional health committee. It has been brought about by a real necessity, that was true of the writer of the case. This is about the 2 thousands of accessories of macroil that are reserved for small boats in the country to offer or obtain additional resources. The law stipulates the price of 8K, as indicated in the opinion of the committee. for silica and macrogol. In view of today's situation, it seems to be too high a price, and little boatmen don't trust them to buy it at that price. That's even. because of the price of the product, macroil, which fishermen receive 50 to 60 k. The file %1 has reached its maximum seed limit. Do you want to connect to the server? In this, the importance of hunting as much of the mackerel we have assigned, and we are going to hunt off that common population, thereby demonstrating our future fishing experience. Therefore, I agree with the way to turn down the fishing fee to match what's in the hunt, or less than 3 k. This also shows us possible. it is difficult to bind to law exactly what to sell the item onto. But the Council can't give up their rights, and a minister can't do that unless he leaves the same direction that I mentioned a year ago. It is that these 2 thousand small trains are simply at auction, so to speak, sent out, and that in this case, sailors offer it in the resources they rely on and so forth. If this is the case because of world conditions or the global market for this product, there is no reason to rely on more than 2 or 3 k. If you do, you'll find out. It would be exactly the same if the market became a source of refreshment and demand, then a higher amount would be offered. Sadly, though, that route had not gone last year. When discussing the case on the committee, I mentioned it again. There I found that the short time we have is not sufficient for proper suggestions in this regard. That's even. due to the time of year. We need only a few humble ones who make it possible for small boat sailors to go to sea. Time passes, and suddenly the mackerel will not be catching for little boats. For one thing, I support the changes the committee makes, although I have not been at the meeting when the situation was taken out. I declare that we in the United States support this route. I reiterate, and would have wanted to make it come out, here by speaking, that I think we should begin with the beginning of these 2 thousand trains and after events more in time and at the market that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, at some sort of dinner party where people invite. It would have been a way that would have completely solved this case. I make right what I said before: " Time is short. ' This rule cannot be selected for such short notice. The matter is urgent. Small boat sailors are waiting to rent these documents to them. We must now admit that market reasons do not want to be paid 8 k. For that perhaps holds the 2.78 k., if I remember correctly, which is the fishing fee for the mackerel today. It should also be noted that it is a catch charge calculated from the increase in macroil fishing two years ago. It is the other part of the matter that shows the problem of how this is resolved, how this case has developed. The auction would have solved this and been successful. I hear the highest. The president wants to vote for it soon, so he's not going to have any further comments on the matter this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u27	Mr. President. We at my office, and if I speak for myself as the vice-former of the Committee, I believe there is good reason to support this situation through the council, that is the case. There is reason to use the mackerel that is in our jurisdiction before he goes out of it and while the little boats can pick him up at the beach. There's some news that now Steing monster hunts fat and good mackerel. It is urgent that we, the legislators, respond quickly to the price of the fishing fee in line with the price of increase, or as indicated by this change of price on fish markets in Sild and makolle at the same sum as the fishing fee for sild and macroil, men are paying comparable sums for access to the fishing warrants below, 2,000 tons of macroil, and for the fishing fees that men pay for these two species. I think it's very fair to control it that way. Then there can be an auction or no auction or rent and a decision on how the State shares resources. Of course, there's a lot bigger and more discussion than there's a chance here. But there have certainly been the last few days ministers from the Faeroe Islands who have arranged for a so - called export. We left greens have been open to look at the sides of those matters, although we will not take in a hard market route so that all the power of auctions and the big and strong and capital owners will have the advantage over others to sweep in all their resources at once. There is much more and more discussion, but there is a chance to apply in this regard. However, we need to take that discussion to see how we can change the fishing system so that there is a possibility for recent fishing and diversity in this article and that money also runs into the settlements, all of this is underneath, as well as for the settlements to have some security in the matter of fishing and fishing. So I think this case is good, and we're definitely supposed to give it a run through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u28	Mr. President. It's nice to participate in discussions. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney, Michael's daughter, because she's particularly perceptive about fishing. But in general it too is a very good reader of politics. I think a statement is why. A senator made it very significant here, especially for the coming election. Hv. A senator said that the left movement ◯ green supply now considered supporting to some extent the recording of exports, although not all the power is put into tender tenders. That's very positive for the line I have in the politics. It seems to me that the situation should take place here after the four major reforming regimes. I feel that with this change in VG, one stone is out of its way. I'm mostly here to discuss mackerel. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller tore here earlier that only one storm would be needed to destroy the season by these little boats. We watch that the large structure is being distributed almost free of charge by the macrotics, and that's what I'm saying, and I'll aim for Faeroe Islands. These little boats are important for space. I think we should do everything we can to lift them up. I've said before, I believe that while the current fishing governance system, the little boats won't be allowed to catch the marauder for free. I'm asking why. A senator: Does it not count it to be that the large - scale fishing system is catching up almost every inch of the mackerelquathane? What does her tender and tender heart say about this potential dream of free fishing little boats in this species of fish?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u29	Mr. President. I have talked about it, and I want the way of small boats in the country as much as possible, and I want to do everything I can to strengthen that fishing party as well as to have the possibility of being diverse. Today, the marine fleet pays a catch fee, but it does not provide additional support that the small boats pay. There is no fairness in that. I thought it would be perfectly normal for a person to be sitting there at the same table as a small boatman who paid only a catch fee. If something is, big and strong, which, of course, profit much more, should pay in harmony with it just as a income tax; people pay according to their means and circumstances, and how much money they earn. However, the profits on each small boat or one large sea - open ship are not being looked to in this regard. We can share it, and I believe that the subterranean ships pay much less in the box than they should. The rate of fishing could be lowered by little boatmen. They don't make money on their finger, as the open - sear has done over the years. All right, just that he's returning his money to the community. But our left course in the fishing business is deeply established. We have talked about it, and can be read about it in the good direction, that the three - fold route is social, geographic, and assigned either by rent or by auction. Everything's in place and is nothing new, calling in the source files at a certain time and assigning it back. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u30	Mr. President. I've declared that while the fishing governance is not changed, it is highly permissible to allow small boats free fishing in the macroil. That would be my wish. If then we'd make a way to change the system as we want it, as the Company likes, like Pirantar wants, and VG wants at least Partly, I don't think that was the case. If so, it would probably be possible for a fleet to offer the share that he receives. Depending on the circumstances, he might have paid less than we suggest if the market situation was in that way. Well, that's my opinion. Otherwise, our hearts, our waist, and the circuitman from the South, are beating in rhythms, as they were so often before. They do so very close to each other when it comes to fishing. There may be a variability in everything, but I want to make it perfectly clear that I believe it is important that these categories are moving toward developing a new government after the election and that one of the main objectives of the new reform management management management management management management of fish in a way that the large fishing industry, which today has the exclusive right to use the resource, must become like everyone else in the market. I'm not saying that all the sources are to be put on the market, but gradually they should be worn out and put into public places. It can't be done, as we have seen in this ideal period, that the government has brought 20 billion of the fish road into a silver bucket. We need money to improve the care of the elderly and the poor. It will be done by the new reformer control.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u31	Mr. President. I believe it should be one of the first works of a new government, reform management, welfare administration and government that's going to be involved in the national affairs of fish management, and that we're going to do it with force from day one. I believe that those in the position of government today can unite in this and that there is good in all of that. It is a task, for the injustices associated with the fishing system have cut down largely on many parts of the country. It was quite amazing that exorcise was also put on the mackerel, for it is the kind that we could have really gone in a different way and distributed in a different way than immediately putting it into the amputating system. It is also evident that the large productions have already begun to buy markets in macroil by icefish tigers and by the smaller tugs, and the largest in the open - up sector are already drawing to them and buying anticipated markets. A large number of smaller boats were assigned in line with hunting experience in the past three years. They had not already earned the great fishing experience that they had received their small share, and they did not trust to continue making out on a mackerel but had already cost much to make it cost more than hundreds of thousands of dollars to prepare themselves in a mackerel. So it's different from saying it. Hence, hope has broken with the laymen who saw the possibility of strengthening themselves in the fishing field. I'll support everything good that comes from what's right. A senator and the United States to make changes in the fishing system we live in.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u32	Sow.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u33	A respectable president. First and foremost, I want to repeat the words as follows. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller said before that this is an evil necessity. I think it's strange for me to discuss at the council what's fair or normal for the layman to pay, if that's 8 k. or any other number of dollars. I'd prefer it if there was a market-based route and it would be settled by marketing routes rather than we'd decide it here on an individual situation. First, it is definitely a much slower process, and secondly, it is always dependent on politics, not on the cold opinion of the market on the value of the resources. This is something that I really feel is worth referring to when these matters come up, although I am not actually going to spend all my time on this other fine subject. I'd also like to call attention to Pirata's fifth-way policy, which is about freeing all those who choose to do it for a job, as is a paper I don't intend to recite. But that is, in my opinion, one of the most important things that you can do to get sailors out of their experience, according to them, when I have met them many, as a form of oppression of the eating system. Besides the long discussion we can have about the dinner system itself, the source and auctions and the streets, it's not only about the government's earnings, of course, for the people to whom it is to be given but it's about ensuring that less people can choose this trade, have it a job, and can do it in a practical way, so that the major system that people experience in some way that is not in their own way. It's one of the jobs I think it's safe to say that Iceland's characteristics, the characteristics of Icelandic working life. Therefore, it is very important that we not only respect the money that comes into the state fund, whatever system we have, but we need to look for ways to make humans as the most freest, yet to manage the resource, and use it in a sustainable way. In time, I expect this to be more discussion and hopefully so. I'm not going to extend this discussion at this time, a respectable president, but I thought it was time to mention these points on this occasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u34	A respectable president. I hereby recommend the extension party of a major part of the employment committee on the matter of Congress that daily is called the payment of stock agreements. We had a long and thorough discussion in 2nd. On livestock contracts. The detailed discussion there helped us to see the need for correction. some of the points we would like to take away that discussion and better understand. As says in a committee study I'm going to trace, the committee was contacted by Ólafur Friðriksson and Rebekka Hilmarsdóttir of the Professional and Neocreation Committee and Benedikt S. Benediktsson from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. The majority suggest a change in the bill, resulting from a change made at 2. and means that new prices of milk will not be legalized at the time of the bill. To this end, adjustments are proposed to paragraphs 8 and 13. The law. The committee gave a detailed consideration to the appointing of a representative of the award board for their meeting between discussions. The 2nd. was accepted as a new proposal, which includes the office of the minister as the representative of my processing companies of the milk as an observer of the committee. The majority of the programme points to a review of all aspects of the process that will take place during the review of agricultural contracts to 2019 C.E. The majority suggest no further change in the proposals of the retail board, but it is directed to the minister to try to look for a more diverse perspective at the appointment of a member of the committee. The majority of these points to the need for milk raw materials in Icelandic industry and the importance of the order of the committee to reflect a wide range of views. The committee did not take the steps that included. was shown as a modification proposal being moved at 2nd. on the matter simply because the whole arrangement is reviewed and it will change at the next review. However, we strongly address it to the highest level. Agricultural minister that we order the committee will have to try to look to other viewpoints, not just for us to have now agreed to change the law on the way that an officer of the hearing will be on the committee. Even if we do not take the step further this time, it may be noted that those members of a group with a right to the minister of order in the committee can also lean on the knot - we can say that it is a knot, that there must be more viewpoints - and since the UN of the milk industry can be mentioned in the committee, they are in hand with the right to look at other factors. I think there is also reason to mention from this platform that the fine organization, the products of the milk industry, also revised its social structure. Without the fact that the council is to be divided by voluntary organizations, I believe that such work could contribute to greater reconciliation with agricultural policy development. More than two o'clock in the context of the committee's list. was mentioned in a number of areas on the main work of a meeting group on review of agricultural contracts and on the other hand expected climate and environment to fall under the review. The 2nd. was proposed to evaluate agricultural agreements according to environmental assessment methodology, as stated by law No. 105/2006, the environmental assessments. Their regulations set up the environmental assessment and implementation of policy-programming policies for implementation as stated in law No. 106/2000, assessment of environmental effects. The Treaty does not agree with the law, but the Commission believes that the objectives of environmental assessment are applicable in this context and that it will improve the preparation and review of changes to take into account them. The committee thus points to the minister of the above mentioned cases as part of the upcoming revision. In view of the greater part of the 2nd. it was recommended that agricultural policy be explored to some extent based on planning, a similar plan to develop, and the General agreements at any given time in the transport media. In the post-marketing period, such a strategy may depend on the environmental assessments. The 2nd. The matter was discussed with those who violate animal law, No. 55/2013. In the X chapter of the law, the sources of the Food Agency include... During a follow-up visit on animal sites, stopping functioning, spending day and demolition. Thirty-seventh. The law states that if people do not comply with the instructions within the specified delay, they are permitted to disbarred, but are also permitted to seek police assistance. Displacement is not used unless the mandate of the Agency has not been performed within a certain period of time and has been repeated against the laws of the law. The majority suggest that in conjunction with delinquency, the Food Agency will be authorized to cancel official support pay according to the provision of goods and equipment laws discussed in more detail in farm contracts and farm contracts. In this way, unless there are repeated violations of animal welfare laws and, of course, a reminder of the concomitant delinquency, the delinquency of public support payments will be carried out. It is then recommended that the payments authorized by the Food Institute be paid for the cost of delinquency, e.g. direct payment for payment targets, remuneration, stress payment on quality-management production, etc. The demarcation should not be included in the official non-suspectial support excerpts such as e.g. Residual support according to the farm contract. If a food management agency is removed, and a guardian is entrusted with the animal's possession, the official support payments for the animal should begin from the return of the animal to its owner. The Commission points out that if an animal invasion is missing according to the X chapter of the Law on the welfare of animals, no, there is already a rich source of intervention. 55/2013, including with administrative fines, shut down operations, trespassing and so on. In addition, there is a general criminal responsibility for violating the law. The majority suggest that decommissionment of public support agreements is added but emphasis on the fact that a food agency uses it in the context of other laws and that the Agency consults its application as in comparable cases. In addition, the greater part is important for a Food Organization to clear its role and cooperate with agricultural guidance services to ensure that the aims of animal well - being are met. A respectable president. There was a lot of discussion about changing proposals from memory in subsidies 2nd. about this in a material way. Disturbances of animal travel often occur in the prevalence of black/whites. No senator in this hall, I'll allow myself to say so, or any member of our society would ever like to carry a volleyball of those who abuse animals. Not at all. The majority, however, could not support the suggestions presented simply because they went out of line with other options or other products that are available for management at any given time. I think it's important that we all put these tools and tools, this burdensome tool, in the overall context. We also stress, as I read from the Commission opinion, that as with other surveillance institutions in the country, their role is also being guided by an organization. I'm sorry, but it's such a number of community surveillance agencies that they're very square, so I'll allow myself to use that word, as they closely follow their duties and roles, but are little ready to give directions, so I'll let myself claim a little rough. I'm going to be doing this on animal traffic discussions now and in connection with farm contracts we're working on that in this case farmers are a little confused about what awaits them. There is a lot of debate over baloney and the future of booths, there is much debate about the size of booths, and there are other animals involved. I let me say that I feel that I hear too many farmers who have completely untimely ideas to settle their farms because they think some rules are about to bite them or are being judged from production because of certain rules. Therefore, as much as it adds to this research through the Food Organization, the majority of the shares are placing public support payments, that Food Organization cooperates with agricultural guidance services, in an effort to promote the well - being of animals in a positive and targeted way. In these words there is no question about the operation of the Food Institute so far, unless less. But I'd like to reiterate that all discussion of treatment of animals, especially of poor treatment, tends to become too black and white. There are many who are sensitive to the discussion, including those with whom animals already have and who feel that they are at some point more important than having some blame in the discussion. We are also framed with this change, which unfortunately was not in the move, that we can no longer be able to provide more sources to the Food Agency to collapse on official support than are the ones that are based on the specific areas we have at each time. Of course, this can be disputed. But I believe that in the right environment we are working and that if we want to work around us, it's important to frame things clearly and understandably so that we are not at risk of interracial mixing. Things are always different. I would also like to say that when such measures are sadly made, delinquency, repeated fines, repeated deadlines have been made, it is usually not just one particular branch that the farmer has in trouble but that he has it all. Although we cut the resources into our habitats only, or those that depend on the relevant support payments, we would like to keep the limits clearly on these materials. The committee received indications of changes in customs that are now being made in other terms of a milk contract, thus adding the greater portion to the new bill, which involves a change to the 7th paragraph. A toll layer. It suggests that her 3rd party should be removed, and he has not been tested. The background of this case is that most likely in 2003, if I recall a change in customs law, there was a small or short law on customs law in which meat might be set up on the greenish meat north of Húsavík. That's not the case. This thing of Greenland has been left behind in the law, but in all its basic points it was possible to import meat without magma, work here, and then move back out of the country. This was the raw materials for the continuation process. On the other hand, if the meat was to come for consumption within the country, it was to be paid normal tolls. This is made clear in the laws and discussions made at the council on the basis of these changes for what they were thinking and for what they were to be used. An adjustment in the proposal of the Committee also includes the change to the 11th cycle of the same article, which was, in fact, a twofold of the 3rd number I traced earlier. However, at the same time we suggest a change of the 11th number, which has yet been placed in place to allow for a non-toll import or import without amplifying of the specified product category, and to put in the modification form of our toll numbers simply below. These are specialized products. This is the basic ingredient for food farming in a country that we do not want to place burdensome tolls in spite of making this change. These are goods, such as cheese powder, a special form of potatoes for continuation of production in French potatoes, a tax number that covers a box of butter, or larger, and also covers products called bread crumbs. Residual agreements and the Parliament's agreements related to the change of regulations signed in agreement with farmers for an update on the value of amplitude in certain groups of products. A majority of the employment committee made some changes, but it did not succeed in implementing them technically in a committee study at 2nd. This is the case with the 3rd. The technical implementation of these changes was presented at 2nd. that the change would be made and intended, although a new criterion and a SDR-toll approach would be adopted annually according to the criteria. So there are two changes to customs in this relationship. First of all, there is a provision from the time we agree to the matter and to March 1. And then the customs will be updated every 1st March each year with a special calculation and will be published in the Guidebook every year, as traces to our changes. Finally, in a committee study, without a direct legal proposal, more part of the employment committee is required to speed up the induction of increased food for special imports and to have a greater share agreed to agrienvironmental Minister to speed up this induction, as shown by the change in the number of items delivered to the 2rd Environment. and connects with 65th degree. Residual products, so that it will be implemented in the first year of the contract of Iceland and the European Union on agriculture trade. This consists of a product group of 0406 according to a customs file in Annex I on customs law and is registered in accordance with the rules for the protection of products with reference to origin, geographic region or standard specifications. Today, tollo's speciality is about 20 tons and will be as suggested by the greater part and in accordance with the terms of the contract I referred to, daily speaking, a customs agreement with the European Union, 230 tons. This will take effect from January 1. So while the committee proposes this, it strongly directs to the office of Ministers to validate the access rights of Icelandic dairy products on Europe's internal markets as well as to speed up the fastest possible pace so that these regulations can be built along with the end of a mutual agreement. Finally, I would like to state that there is a significant amount of cheese that we have on special products with special labeles. This means, in tons, and in the raw material below some six million gallons [6 million L] of milk in domestic product that could open up there. That's a really high number. It is likely that a large number of cows in Western lands will be seen if we try to paint a picture of how much amount is involved. In 2015, 215 tons of cheese were introduced within the tollovates that apply to various contracts. The European Union Convention on Oysters, when fully established, will have reached some 610 tons. Clearly, milk producers are facing radical changes in their job status. The purpose of the proposals I have traced was also to ensure that the special products that have special significance will be brought in here without the means of import or tenders that are often discussed in order to speed up their implementation of regulations and to increase immediately in their new year selection of cheeses. It is not in itself simple to say exactly what this means to consumers. That is why we need more information that we may be able to publish later. In itself, we do not know how much specialized cheese has been brought in so that we can give a clear example of how much the price changed. The key point is this: According to our motion, no tender charge or charge should be paid for the import that will enter this 230-ton import device covering cheese with a special origin. A respectable president. I have a detailed basis for the changes made by the committee's opinion. But, as I say, in all the main points, we're moving toward the change we presented to the 2nd. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that because of a price - price panel and the price of milk, we are more concerned with the points presented in our committee's list that it is important to consider, for example, the price of such things. A milk powder for industry in Iceland, so it would be an opportunity for industry to take advantage of raw materials. That's why we're putting in the change that we're 4. will be added to a new joint, as follows: After the word '-production requirements' for recovery at 2 mgr. 13th par. The law, it comes and it's unique manufacturing. This means, in effect, that we give a merit commission to substantiate certain groups of products with this objective in mind. Under the heading, write why. The members of the greater body of the committee, Haraldur Benediktsson, Jón Gunnarsson's son Geir Jón Þórisson, Páll Pálsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Þórunn Egil's Egilsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u35	V.E.G. President. I don't have any direct questions or anything. I just want to welcome the coverage that the Committee took into account animal success at her meetings and celebrate the conclusion she found. During the discussion, I felt that the most important thing is that when people repeatedly violate the welfare of animals, there should be a number one, two, and three to remove the animals from their care. I'm really glad to hear that it's in there. But I'm also concerned that during the discussion, I received tips on persons who don't get any remuneration on the livestock they keep, are not in quality management, and that they're breaking off. It is therefore difficult for the Rapporteur to deal with these issues, and the failure of the Rapporteur is, unfortunately, very evident in these examples. I wanted to direct it to the senator if there was anything discussed in making an improvement for the Rapporteurs, i.e. to handle those without quality control or direct payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u36	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. Now it's simply this way, as I've sometimes said, that it's hard to take out the money they get anyway. However, I would like to say again that the Food Organization has many sources and very burdensome sources, whether they are all the way up to reimbursement, to fines, which in itself can reflect almost all the income of that farmer or bus. However, it is difficult to add to the Food Agency's tool collection for the forced disposal of funds from farms that have not been paid or received such payments. The answer to the question, "What is it? " A professional health committee has discussed this with no. We did not particularly discuss increasing their resources because there is no amount of money to be taken from them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u37	V.E.G. President. Yes, it is time for the final talk, 3 / 15 Environment, the bill to correct the change in goods, equipment laws, and customs, or the name of a stock agreement or a hardware contract. No. 680 at Council Index 1108, with all subsequent changes and the above mentioned figures. First, I'd like to report the two changes I make at 3rd. which is then an opinion and a new proposal from the 1st smaller part of the employment committee I'm appointing. The first smaller items suggest that the recommendation of the Contestant to remove the value of the milk industry from competitive law and that there will be a period of delay for this or to 1 January 2020. Resentment into the future wants a 1st memory to match the view that a long change in life requires such a change. This view has been expressed in the treatment of matters in the committee and in conference discussions. The first smaller part emphasizes that he considers it a bad position for the Council to have so limited a chance to change the current bill. So a smaller portion suggests that the Ministers shall propose to the Council a proposal for the resolution of the State's contract objectives for a reimbursement of the labour agreement and of the farm contract as late as January 2019. They would be the object of a contract therapy and would be used in a discussion with farmers and in the proposed revision. In view of the 1st smaller section at 2nd. The fact was that there were no data on customs of imported agricultural products. After 2nd, a discussion on the Committee. This was received and can be seen in the patient information leaflet. This concludes my quote from the committee opinion I present at 3rd. For one thing, the adjustment of the new milk supply proposal from competitive law is being made here again, but the views that have been met. from some of the government groups that it takes longer to do so. It is accepted here and given a three - year adjustment period. It can be said that it is very similar when we adopted a European Union directive called an electronic directive, for example, that we had to perform bi-way or trigraphy to alter the law on the full dissociation of the production and distribution of energy supply by enterprises. But as I say, it's here to meet this point of view. I've said before, and I still believe that I'd thought it would be a very good thing or clever thing to do with the Bavaria and the Lactates to do it myself. I have said that it was no doubt the right decision during the preparatory period to leave the milk industry's exception of competitiveness during the transition. But I don't agree that it takes forever. That's why a suggestion is now made. And I again reiterate the proposal I make is made by the Contestance Institute, which the committee all requested, including more of the Committee. I ask: If nothing was meant to be done with this suggestion, why was it requested? Second, I make a suggestion that I recognize in a committee party and would like to explain a little bit more and say, "It's an unfortunate situation, so I use that word, for the Council, to actually represent an arrangement between several government ministers, no matter what the government is, and the town council on a domestic agreement. Therefore, a proposal is made that the minister of agri-gri-gri-gri-gri-environment schemes will be conducted by the General at Parliament where the objective of a contract is made, and the general members can discuss it in two discussions, and they can refer to a committee. And finally, either the agreement goals presented by the minister or the viewpoints entered into which the government's representatives will set out to do business with farmers. Of course, the contract will always be between these two parties. It may well be that something other than that may come out of the picture. At least then, the General has been given a position to discuss these matters before. I now take as an example: Here we are faced with an act of support from the flocks of sheep in the land. In view of the current serious information presented and in my opinion, this contract goal is basically to run off the table against sheep's livestock. We cannot expand or move to meet the awkward situation today faced by sheep farmers, which is a reduced price from slaughter holders to them by 10◯12%. Someone had a lower number. This reduction is even Convinced by the fact that the 3,000 tons needed to be exported, the price of various sheep products, such as yesterday, and the various world conditions that make up a number of markets, are cut off. This calls for failure by the General. Here and now, we should respond to the pitiable position in which sheep farmers are placed. But, unfortunately, we can't do anything, anything closer, we can't change anything. For that is when the contract comes, and they say, "Well, then the deal has to be paid back among farmers. Therefore, I make this suggestion and challenge the greater part and the better. Prominent for this matter, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, to promote this proposal within the administrative part. I do not hesitate to say that it is in greater agreement for the preparation of market agreements. In my mind, we will continue to make a domestic agreement that is for farmers and actually subsidies on the products we deal with, whether it is for sheep or cattle or vegetables or anything else. Perhaps I will find that better later. Third, I discuss what I couldn't talk about with a 2nd issue. The point was, the Department of Agriculture had not received answers. However, this was observed at one meeting of the Committee as a disassembled tolls of imported agricultural products in 2014 and 2015. It is printed as a accompanying document to my committee opinion and can be said to be very informative. It finally shows that the customs of the state in 2015 of meat and of parts of the so - called 2nd chapter are 840 million. K. every year. You should keep this in mind, 840 million. K. I should have said it first that in these chapters all, these toll numbers, the state's income is of customs on the imported agricultural products over 2.2 billion dollars. and keep that in mind when we discuss these amounts here. There they are, as I said, of meat and eat parts of an 840 billion animals. K. It also shows that more than 92 million come to customs of cheeses and eggs. It also shows that the customs of the state of the imported vegetables are 172 million. K. If I recall correctly, three vegetables subsidies are supported by 272 million with or without the electricity contract. You should remember, this is a lot of money that comes in there. But I'll find out later that it's not necessarily about all imported agricultural products, some of which have to be brought in because of the lack, such as pig pages, cattle, and other necessary items, because we just don't produce enough of those products, but it's right to keep these numbers in mind. Also, at a meeting of the Ministry's representatives distributed this answer to my questions, it is estimated that there are nearly a billion of the chapters of 17◯24 that will fall out of the change in the so - called specifically marked cheese that will be brought in. Even if it were now, a respectable president, that of the unproved cheese species, the government is taxing it to 1 billion, which, of course, would go into the prices and increase the prices to consumers in this regard. Why can't consumers just get this at the price that immigrants import plus the modest stress of shopping? Then I would say that consumers should soon see a significant reduction in the products discussed and agreed on 2nd. The case, i.e. Suggested by the majority of the Committee at least the representatives of the Union we agreed on 2nd. As I say, these products are widely discussed. That was even. My purpose is to present a number of questions to the Ministry on the import and export of the various agricultural products that have been subsequently developed and are included in the package leaflet on the General Assembly website. Sadly, there is no time for discussing this subject and discussing its negative traits. But as I said before, there are some species that we must import. One example in this response I've been talking about importing agricultural products, says that in 2015 433 tons of pig pages were introduced and paid for in a caff worth less than 209 million. Q, or on average 482K. per kilogram. In a letter that I have received from a member in a town that knows this matter very well - I don't want to quote where it comes from, I want to keep that confidential - this is so that at this point in some particular month period this year, 145 tons of pig pages have been brought in. The Cif guards at it were 409 k. Tubes about 205. which will make the sum of 30 million, if I calculate the right toll income of the import of these pig pages, or a total of about 614 k. without a sink. However, sales prices on imported pork pages are out of the store - I have seen - that this is not a scientific survey of ASI or someone who deals with prices - range 1,530k. And up to 1,980, which I've seen at the highest. 1.980 k. A letter of pig pages stated to be imported either from Denmark or Germany, the minus Seminar tax, about 1,840 k. Then. The difference between over 600 bucks, import price plus toll, in 1800 k. without a sink, it's a little bit of a padding. The person standing here naturally knows the importer, the person who wraps a product and keeps it and any other part of it, obviously needs to get what he wants. We're talking about a moderate strain that needs to be. Everyone needs it, including the store. But if these calculations are correct, which I also want to state are not very scientificly placed, then it can be seen that customs import prices are approximately three times when it comes to the price of consumers. I think there's a lot of work to be done. I don't know how to explain now how these differences are divided, to those who move in, to manage the product, to work with it, to pack it, to get it into stores, and the store needs what it needs, but the price of sale has become about 2,000 dollars. Of course, a product of this product is a little overdramatic. I ask, who gets this difference? If this outstanding example can be taken in more areas of imported agricultural products, it is worth keeping this in mind all of these questions as to whether to import or not. I said earlier that I would talk about sheep farmers and the difficult situation of those who do nothing but get worse at this time and get much worse, during the slaughter that has begun, and in the coming year, than was now the last time. It's just getting worse. As a result, I feel that the deal of sheep is a prerequisite to me. But there is nothing the General can do. The amount, in the opinion of the party, to be exported, will continue to increase. In other words, overproduction is in the country of lamb for domestic consumption. If only we use this number, 3,000 tons of the 10,000 tons produced last year, plus if there is something growing now, and now there is more trouble in exporting than before, in terms of the slaughter holder, including the MAH. out of the closed markets, there are about 3,000 tons to be removed from the country. 3,000 tons of the sheep's contract, 5 billion per cent, is divided into several subordinates, in effect we are paying about 3,000 tons out of the country about 1.6 billion dollars. Whether we call it subsidies or exports, 1.6 billion of what is intended for sheep farmers who would then be paid into this export to get this meat out of market and into countries. Don't eat any more of what's in there. One of the butchers'sales on lamb has been reported to have decreased this year, which has been an amazing weather experience. So blend in with what I've said before, my dread of various cow farmers who don't have very many cows and who've not been reinvented in their purses and used the technology, they're going to sell away their salutations and raise themselves to sheep instead of the problem. This was also shown in the Committee on Exports with high expectations of being able to export lamb to China. Pretty far. It stated that if we could move out like 1,500 tons to China for a vacation contract made with China during the Ministerial period. paritaprevir The Acquisite Össur of Skarphéðinsson would be a great difference, and it would make a great deal of relief from this excess of production. But it was stated by the current government, who laid out his contract goal in Chinese government conferences that it was more emphasised, and it got into the customs agreement, selling horses on foot to China. No tolls. But not lamb. I ask, but there is no answer for that, no one can answer: "Why didn't we talk about the lamb that would undoubtedly be most urgent about being able to move to that great market? A respectable president. As with so many other matters in this case in the case of the Generals, there is no answer. It's just given away an easy one in this regard. One more thing I would like to mention, which is not the case with the 3rd. The point. It was during a discussion with 2nd. The point: Is this sheep's contract for three or ten years? As members of our council, we made a suggestion that he would be clearly resolved to exist for three years. The contract form until the end of the ten - year contract may be a reference work. That proposal was made. But at a meeting on the pro board, an expert on contract rights approached us and discussed this agreement that advised us entirely to obtain a book between parties, i.e. between the government and the National Association, on the understanding that it's a three-year deal, as I think it's at least A representative of the second administration party is talking about, i.e. Independents. But representatives of the government party, candidates, don't talk about it. I ask, and why. The head of the committee, anyway. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson may be able to say: " Why wasn't there a basis for receiving that book? Is it even? Because there is a conflict between the parties, as I noted earlier, whether this is a three - year contract or a ten - year contract? This is a vital point that the majority of the cells spoke of as being about the 3rd issue. but hasn't shown up yet. It is always a question of what to do in a discussion of such a matter when we are finally on the finish line in terms of payment. I've made the subject of my two modifications and the best of sheep's farmers and reiterate what I've said there that I think sheep farmers deserve far better than the ones mentioned in this contract. There's a need to be added if there's anything else. It is not possible that this class, already in a very difficult situation, will undergo the massive failure of the crown's strength or the state of the world that can't be sold as well as so much meat. Russia, the problem just grows and grows in this regard. This is where we would have had to intervene, but it's not possible. Finally, I'd like to say that one of my suggestions to the 2nd. The point was to put in a law on the welfare of animals that the State's support of animals could be taken care of. That proposal was made. However, a suggestion that the more part moves is a step in the right direction, although I may feel that it is a step in the right direction. I'm not going far enough, but I'm in the right direction. If I have seen correctly in preparing this discussion, then why? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, too, suggested in this regard. I will support the suggestion that can come through, which will be the expected proposal of the greater part on this. I just want to say at the end of the story. We saw a very bad report about the animals'equipment on a sheep farm east of the country. I was often approached by delegates from the Northeast standard on the complex situation there. Finally, I ask: If a photo like us Americans appeared there would have gone outside the landstones, where we believe we are selling wholesome, good lamb, sheep products made in Iceland after the money goes out on the streets of the country and gets fine food, no growth plants and nothing used for it, what if that report had gone out of the landstones? That is why it is solidly my faith that we need to put this into law as a warning. It may never have to be necessary, but there must be a warrant to take away the farmers from the state where these things happen. Our firm stand will be made up of the changes presented here. Some suggestions are beneficial, just as was the case with 2nd. and we supported them suggestions. There's still some disagreement between here on how to do this. It's part of my new proposals. Our firm stand for the matter when it comes to due payment will be dealt with at any time in the vote. But I notice that it is arranged for a vote on the customs agreement, and this contract will be at the same time. That is where our attitude will be expressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u38	Madam President. I'm going to make an account for an upcoming committee party at the 3rd. ... aboutthemoney. It's the opinion of my second, and the one here goes before him. There have been positive changes in the case after 2 Peter 3: 1. Um, um... due to the suggestion and indication of my 2nd memory, left green, which celebrates the changes suggested on the bill. A smaller portion of the study suggests that it has been right to react to the change in his proposal that agricultural contracts will be assessed according to environmental assessment methodology and expressed satisfaction by the fact that this important step towards environmental compliance has been taken. Change proposal 2 reduces part of the fact that public agricultural payment must be extended to those who have violated animal welfare laws by engaging in animal abuse also became part of the bill. Although this has been the main reason for an animal abuse to be so grave that it is justified in dropping public strength to those who have sinned in this way and also important to prevent further violations, in view of the second part, it was not sufficient to ensure full benefit from the measures used. As a result, 2 less items suggest adjustment of the adaptation of more part on panel. 1647, suggested in a special Senate document. The suggestion that food management will be permitted to eliminate all public support payments, not just payments for an animal that has been broken down. Section 2 reduces the authority to cancel support payments will be used in conjunction with deforestation and has had the opportunity for a person to correct his course. According to 1st mg. It is permitted by the Food Organization to dissuade an animal authority from their possession that the Agency's directives have not been carried out within a certain amount of time. The second-mind of a lower court shall, in particular, follow the exercise of administrative law, in order to form a court of protest and follow a moderate rule. Other smaller things reiterate their position as outlined in a committee study at 2nd. that there will be a need for European agriculture to survive in time and in the future for the benefit of the entire country and that public funds may be protected for this objective. If this is to remain in agreement with society and nature, it is necessary to make sure that consumers are benefiting from agricultural measures and that environmental protection and animal care are fully cared for. Other smaller items also call attention to criticism in the above - mentioned commission to work on treaties that were not designed to create the credibility necessary for them to serve their role as a covenant between national agricultural products and the public for the production of healthy consumer products in agreement with the nature of the country. In this case, less 2nd will not allow the attention to be paid at the same time as farm contracts were prepared and their payments were worked to confirm the agreement between Iceland and the European Union on agriculture trade, which may threaten the targets of the agricultural agreement. Experts and responsible personnel in the field of public health and infectious diseases have noted that there may be a risk of transmission of infectious agents to the country by raw animal products and the management equipment of the country's environment to deal with this situation if there is insufficient. This is certainly a concern, and it shows a lack of overall policy in agriculture and public health. The introduction of food is very important in climate and environmental terms in general. Transportation activities are deep ecosystems and have adverse impact on the environment. It is therefore important that food manufacturers and consumers make the most of the road possible. The market agreements contribute to domestic food production and therefore can have a positive impact on environmental and climate issues here on the country, only provided that there is concern and caution in agriculture and other activities with the environment. Sheepfolds are currently in trouble, and the problem is most apparent in the areas where farmers and their families have spread only or largely out of financial resources. The production of lamb is considerably higher than domestic consumption, which has decreased over the last few years and decades, and today there is a reduction in prices in foreign markets. This has led to the informing of farm farmers of a reduction in prices to 12%. It tells itself that this failing of a man is very attractive to sheep. The work programme has resolved in the period of previous livestock contracts, where production management was removed and unfortunately it is not to be seen that new contracts are able to achieve the right policy. It is reason to believe that the underlying objective of the agricultural agreements is to strengthen an area of distribution in the current agreements, which is, of course, a considerable poem on them. Finally, 2nd reduces the position described in a committee program at 2nd. that even though the case was highly reformed, it is still defective. As a result, when it comes to paying attention to the subject, 2 smaller things support the adjustment proposals that he considers to be good for, while sitting by in other respects. This is the essence of our committee party, a leading committee party. Of course, we are happy that many of the factors that we have stressed were taken into consideration. We believe that this matter is so growing, of course, that there are different categories to it, and everything that makes the matter better and acceptable is good, although, in the end, those who started with it without any agreement will be responsible for it. I believe the work on the Committee was improving, and there were things that could have started a lot earlier in this work with more people, both stakeholders and members at the General Assembly. Change proposal 2 less parts on the job board, our left green, says: ▪ The preceding paragraph 8 says: "We revere according to 1 mg. Food agencies shall eliminate all official support pay according to the regulations of the livestock, No. 99/1993, and device law, No. 70/1998,◯ I state that this document does not render it as if I read it, and I wish it to be changed and printed again so that the text will be as I speak it in my language. There was a question answered by the dog. paritaprevir María Sigmundsdóttir on the change in the development of the greater sector's development of public payment due to violations of animal traffic, and it was not considered to go all the way, so that if the animals that did not fall under public payment, it would be authorized to deprive them of official support. Of course, discussions in the Committee about these things were made. I participated in those discussions. I thought that it would be right to go all the way and further strengthen it so that there would be no difference between the lack of animal traffic in the part of livestock that does not depend on public support and that after normal processes, warnings, and the rest of the Food Organization, it would be possible to disqualify the official support of the section that falls under subsidies. I think it's important that we walk all the way. I've had it checked out that this is a perfect legal way to do it. In fact, the first proposal I proposed on behalf of the 2nd part of the physical road committee was on the same basis, the contents were the same, that the Food Institute had the authority to resort to the deliberation of public support to the bodies that broke animal traffic laws. In my committee earlier, I reviewed that there are certain processes that will be followed by a Food Institute before such harsh measures are taken. I see no reason to minimize the loss of animal life. Whether or not these creatures have official government support is irrelevant. If the party becomes aware that the animal traffic laws are broken on his farm, for example. Horses with no official support from the State can follow warnings and advise that they also contain sheep and cannot be shown that they have broken the animal traffic laws against that part of the farm. This is what I want to say. There is much else to say. Like others here, I'm really worried about the interest of sheep farmers in peripheral areas, and I've heard that many people are looking at their interests and whether there's a future to continue or whether they're going to live. Sadly, there are some who have already decided to leave the house, and there will be no turning back. Of course, we Icelanders have to stand together for our agriculture and provide the standard for living in this sector and for management conditions and other factors so that we can continue to produce wholesome and good farming products at home, in close surroundings with consumers, and need to be mentioned to carry them here with a high cost and climate impact, the continents between. I think we need to use these three years carefully to review matters from all sides, making this work environment better with those working in the article and also looking to demolitions, so that when prices fall down, it is not always the source that needs to be left in pain and reduced. They also need to look at the other end of the big chain of shopping, which also needs to be handled. They profit billions, while many farmers are at a rate far below the minimum wage in the country, which I don't consider acceptable. We take care of this together with the customs, import of agrienvironmental products, toll agreements between the European Union and Iceland, which are very controversial. I'll have more votes when it comes to the votes of these two cases, and I'll wait to make more comments about it for the time being.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u39	V.E.G. President. I didn't necessarily want to say goodbye to the 3rd. About livestock. Our emphasis on the future has come true. We proposed a paradox that was sadly cut down. For that, we've been told that we're enemies of agriculture and rural enemies, and I don't know what or what. As I've said before, there's nothing far more to prove than that we're enemies of the agricultural industry in Iceland, we're very much on the rise in agriculture and wax as never before. But we do not agree on how to do this and have pointed it out in a talk chair, in articles, and elsewhere. One of the things I've believed to be my role as a senator is to listen to voices in the community. Sadly, all too seldom do we witness in the community who are interested in these things, knows them, and often study things much better than we do at the council. I state that I have a high opinion of what to do. paritaprevir Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, who has done this work with great enthusiasm and enthusiasm. I don't doubt it, and I've said it in the past, it's often very nice to listen to senators like him who knows so much about things, because he's the former president of Iceland's Farming Association. It's good to have people like that at the council. One of those who have spoken about these matters in the past few months and this year after the contracts began is Engilbert Guðmundsson, former director of the European Development Agency, who wrote an article on the core in March. when the contracts began and discussed in the community. I read that article as well as many others, and it fascinated me. He shows us how to think about this matter. I'm going to quote from the Engilbert article, by permission of the president. I'll say it's written March 23rd, it's been a while. He says: ▪ Recently, it has been interesting to monitor the information that the government and the farm organization have published for ten years to provide support to Icelandic agriculture on a new agricultural contract. But I have not learned much about that information about the national benefit of the contract. I am not an expert in Icelandic agriculture, but for a long time I have observed discussions about agricultural development around the world. In principle, I see the agricultural agreements going on that the government will ensure that the production of dairy products and sheep food will be as much as there and remain more and more, as farmers will be as many as now and preferably more and younger, as well as their terms will not get worse and will not get worse. Names on subsidies change, but it cannot be seen that there is any fundamental change, except that the motivation to produce more seems to be increased. There is no apparent reference to the development of markets and consumers' wishes on major agricultural products. Many questions arise, and the first question is: What professional analysis of the country's needs for agricultural products is fundamental to the agreements? In the data of the government and the community, I see in particular four argumentes that are supposed to justify massive support for agriculture in the form of import and subsidies. They include: 1st protection for consumers, 2nd saving currency, 3rd groundwork and work against reduction of farms and 4th national food security. The restrictions on the import of agrienvironmental products are a key element in the protection of Icelandic agriculture, both by direct head and toll. In each book of economics, it is taught that the import head increases prices, dot. The subsidies, however, are more complex. Just as with respect to tax on goods, but with counterreports, it is not necessarily the person whose taxes or subsidies are on, who is guilty or who enjoys the profit. This depends on the market situation. Thus, the benefits of the financial subsidies are divided in some percentages between the manufacturers (who receive a higher net yield), the middle party in processing and shops (which can take more stress) and the consumers (which pays lower prices). I haven't seen any research that suggests that consumers are enjoying their resources beyond producers or shops. My second question is: Is there an analysis that shows how farmers, middlemen, and consumers share in subsidies? It can be noted that even if subsidies result in lower prices, this method is used to improve the well - being of the public, the use of tax dollars is extremely inadvisable. High-priority, including... can allow you to eat more expensive meat, just as low - income earners enjoy your subsidies. Such thinking is contrary to the ideas of public translocation, which primarily have the purpose of improving the interests of those with little income. When a recent analysis of the HI Institute for Economics pointed out that milk products could be exported to the country by about half of the amount produced here at home, some pointed to the domestic production of currency. Of course, this is true, but only to a certain degree. It also imports a lot of resources for production, e.g. Engines, machines, fuel, all sorts of plastics, and so on. To evaluate the expected currency savings, therefore, it is important to know how much domestic production actually saves from currency. My third question is: What would it cost to import other agricultural products, e.g. sheep meat, pork and bird meat, and what would be the net currency cost of such things, i.e. that from the introduction of imported species used by domestic agriculture? In 2014, 10200 tons of sheep were produced in the country. The internal consumption, however, was some 6,400 tons. The remainder, 37% of the production, was exported to a high price in the domestic market and expected under the cost of production, or what? My fourth question is: Do government funds contribute to overproduction of sheep that is sold at subsidies in foreign markets? Is it, in other words, the taxpayers subtract from foreign consumers? [...] What specific evidence is there to encourage the consumption of sheep more than other meats? How many farms does it take to have the country built? Workforce in agriculture accounts for 2.5% of total labour in the country and provides a 1.5% contribution to national production. In comparison, approximately While working at 1.5 percent of fish, a contribution to land production is made in close proximity to 3%. It seems that each sailor thus gives four times as much money as any farmer in the country. The seventh question is: Don't parties worry about the small contribution of agriculture to land production compared to the population involved in this article? Much emphasis is placed on the fact that subsidies are to help keep the whole country inhabited, without explaining what it means. The pattern of living in Iceland has changed dramatically over the course of time, and many places in which it was inhabited are no longer - glaciers and a variety of pagan habitats. Few people would think that the requirement for the land in the population should be rebuilt in those areas. What does that mean, though, that the land is inhabited in the city of their country? Today, there are more than 3,000 regular sheep and milk farms in the country. Iceland wouldn't be quite well built with such over 1,000 farms, would it not be evenly spread across the country? This is the average of 300 to400 farms in each rural country? Can we claim that this land is no longer inhabited by that number of bees? Whoever's here has, like, a question. traffic through agricultural regions in the United States, where towns are much longer than in this country. And there is no one there to complain that the land is not inhabited. The eighth question is: How is it logical that we need this very number of farms to have the land inhabited? Has a building agency designed to form an analysis of how many farms are needed for the country to be reasonably built? Economic progress hides, including a decrease in the number of manufacturing groups. We need, for example. only a small portion of the fishermen and fish farmers we needed decades ago to produce more valuable than ever before. Sometimes such transformations are painful. In Iceland there was once a powerful shipping industry and clothing industry, but they were not competitive to countries with less pay. Thus, Icelandic employees are generally working under the conditions of competing with foreign workers. However, towns have been spared foreign competition. It is likely to have diminished intensification for convenience, including the U.S. towards larger and fewer bees. Such trends have been seen in cow farms, and to a lesser extent in sheep's flocks. Asking may include: whether it is effective to consider that sheep farms have more than 400 sheep on feed and have only grown in recent years. Is it in some way unrealistic or unreasonable to assume that a sheepfold in the full - time business system has no less than 800 to 1,000 sheep? I suspect that farms of that size would not be important in several countries, such as New Zealand. The ninth question is: Do the labour agreements have an opinion of what constitutes a farm that is an economic unit sufficient to allow it to receive a means of manufacturing? What evidence is there that there is no possibility for a significant enlargement and decrease in the number of countries in this country to be suitable, desirable, or practical? Food security. Yet, of all the things that governments and the community have said, food security is difficult to understand. Such is the publication of the Research Association of the European Society, such as the Icelandic agriculture, references to urban development in China, fuel produced by plants, and other interesting things. All things are true, but as a reason to maintain an adverse agriculture behind seas and subsidies, these things do not hold water. There are much more efficient ways to ensure global food security, especially down payments and business restrictions, and contribute to the development of poor nations. Which is in the opposite light of what the Icelandic farm organization recommends and the local government recommends. Economic research, including the World Bank stand before it, indicating that business restrictions and agricultural subsidies are the most damaging to the world's hunger and the wealthiest experts claim that subsidies in rich countries and tolls and agricultural bans from poor countries cost more lives each year than all the wars that are fought in the world. But some may ask normally: What if the land is closed, such as by ice or by war? It is very difficult to see that Icelandic agriculture, with all its imported resources, is likely to be for survival rather than for e.g. Fishing. Surely, then, people ask how best to use, for example. Limited supply of fuel to provide food for the nation. All of this, however, seems farfetched. The 10th question is: Is the argument about agricultural food safety based on some analysis of a particular threat to the food security of Icelanders, e.g. Insoned? Engilbert concludes: I have raised several questions for those who shape the policies in Icelandic agriculture by request that they be answered with reason, as the public in the country must have a requirement. I'm sorry, but if I don't argue, I have reason to suspect that the agricultural support system will contribute to disaster, especially in sheep farms, if consumers are unfavourable and highly obliging in the use of public funds. I think the government owes us the taxpayers a lot better support than we've got from them to justify more than 200 billion dollars. Support to Icelandic agriculture in the next ten years That man had so many words. I think it's very interesting. Perhaps they should have considered this even more carefully when the contract was laid out in its time, taking into account all the points mentioned above. We believe there were many more people at the table who would have made this contract with a long-term goal in mind for Icelandic agriculture. A bright future considers land quality and agriculture to be one of the resources of the country, and it is important that this resource as new as others is used and handled with responsibility. Food production is an important cornerstone of employment in many scattered areas and on a wide basis. National and farm agreements are tools to promote sustainable and sustainable use of land and land and opportunities to influence long-term agricultural development. It should not be our goal to produce some agricultural products. The manufacture needs to take into account demand and supply, and it needs to be self-sustained and returned to the country in a better condition for future generations. In the short future, we resisted the change in agricultural products. We believe that there will be an opportunity to develop and build stronger agriculture in Iceland. This is a contract for ten years that carries an increase of production in no way of demand and much in the long term weakens the agriculture but does not support it. In itself, we have no objection to long contracts if our goals are clear and take into account the realities and the better land uses and the more advanced support for farming. We are also not talking about cutting back on agriculture. Rather, we believe that much more money can be spent. In the short future, we would have wanted to see increased emphasis on land use, land reforms, environment and innovations, more in line with the proposal for more economic interest. These adjusted emphasis would have to be taken into account by agriculture and agriculture and previous domestic contracts. Hence, it is normal for farmers in traditional agriculture, sheep farms, and milk production to be the priority during the contract period to adapt to changing the environment. Instead, we must have the courage to set priorities and build up land where there are limited opportunities other than conventional agriculture but to support farmers in other areas to use it more effectively. That's what we stress in the short future, we're not enemies of the rural population, we're not enemies of farmers. We are their friends, and we want the best for them. That is why we would have wanted these agricultural contracts to have been dismissed and placed at tables again because everyone had been invited to the table to make further peace, for it is not available, and not even within a series of farmers. We've seen it at sheep's settlements.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u40	A respectable president. I guess we're in the end of the 3rd. On livestock contracts. I don't want to give too much consideration to the talks presented here and merely say that all the information on the agricultural agreements, all the discussion on this big matter has been very illuminating and is moving to a much greater degree of solidarity on the changes we have to make in the years to come, and we made a thorough tithe in the year 2 issue. There has also been an important point in the discussions that have been conducted during this discussion. Only with regard to these words. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's words here reflect the many questions he has read from an article he quotes from. I'm going to say nothing more than that all those questions deserve more discussion and discussion than we can do here. But I also encourage them. Because in his speech he read articles and tried to study matters very carefully, a recent report made by Anion Bank on Food and Food Production, which presents a very valid and well - supported viewpoint, such as. The growth of agricultural production has increased dramatically in recent years. I'm not going to be guilty of testifying in the wrong way to a report I mention here, which speaks of an increase in production of between 303/40%. It speaks of other opportunities for the agriculture that he has had and will have to take. It also speaks of a marked increase in the value of Icelandic agricultural production in recent years. All of this is the point that, of course, deserves a very good discussion, and I miss that a speaker has not had a quick one, such as. the side of things he crossed. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir reasoned in her talks on a change of opinion. I want to say something about a speech. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller told me that I found a lot of interesting things to do there, especially his coverage of pig pages and their prices, deserving of my knowledge of much deeper research. Only with regard to the suggestions presented and introduced by the senator. I'm especially glad to be here, and I'm just gonna let me mention here that I'm working on a professional committee, and I don't think it's a myth to mention it here during this discussion, have a reason. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and other members of the Committee have been extremely resolved in their talks and have the suggestions they have here. I'm very happy for what's being said. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, that we now have an understanding that we cannot change the law in a single way regarding the vital work we're solving by allowing them to be free from competitive laws to the milk industry. The important work we have previously noted in this discussion is to match the position between the manufacturer and the equal position between the population. As for the proposal he makes here, to decide to cancel this release in 2018, I'd just like to say that we've put that revised in a defined review process, and I think it's right that we're waiting for that conclusion. I believe we have to change so much more things than just that specific release. I even talked about it. about 2nd. that there are other tools and tools that we can improve and treat in a way that we can achieve the same objective but that we can achieve by means of this particular exception. As long as we don't have them, we're gonna let the parole stand. With regard to the other thing he runs here about the survival of sheep farmers, I just want to agree with him and say that we naturally worry about that. But I'm also going to remember that one of the reasons for the poor provision of sheepfolds now is just because we removed a certain release we had in the past, i.e. We had orders for the export activities that we undertook from the law at the time. [[Up front.]] Perhaps it would be worth the effort to see if there is a problem. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller did not want us to examine in what way we can change his excellent proposal, which has come to be of the exception of a sabbaticals and authorized Administrators, to work together in the marketing of foreign markets, since it would not be known that my people would not be able to destroy competition here within the country. It's about what it's like. A senator here traced about horses to China, and the strange emphasis that it shows is only to say that a free trade deal with China, which we obtained at the beginning of this election period after the preparation of the previous government, has not been made to the point that the recognition process that we need to go through has been completed in order to open the market for both, the extra products that are available to sheep and meats themselves. That's too bad. And if it's been specifically put in place to step up the import of live horses to China, there may be reasons for that, but we don't. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller may be able to agree that we do not fully understand the priorities of a project. Then, in itself, it is just a bit different, not a sum of money, how far and how fast we want to go in motion on how we should prepare to prepare the products at any given time. A second-segorized porpoise. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller to discuss the agreement aims of a pact hall before making contracts with farmers is an excellent idea, but we've put it in reexamination procedures how to prepare contracts and how to do them. Might be a good idea. That is why the senator was part of that tool package. Because of a suggestion. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Jr., is moving here to deprive farmers of money because of violations of welfare laws, animal welfare laws, I want to refer to my earlier speech today. That in itself is an adjustment factor in the fact that we only want to take reasonable steps in this regard, but I respect entirely the opinions of the individual. A senator appeared there. Finally: We have an amendment of this bill and these Parliaments to lay the groundwork for agricultural production, an environment for agriculture that today generates the value of about 100 million. K. Every day. Then the necessary steps have been set aside from abroad because of the problem. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson specifically mentioned them. We have a profession that certainly has a lot of access, but it also needs a good frame to survive the present time. That's what we're dealing with right now. We all agree that the future of agriculture is bright, especially because of the new and unexpected situation that is also brought up with increasing tourism and the value of the agricultural industry for the tourism in the country. I'm glad that at the end of the much agricultural discussion that this time, both the viewpoint has been clarified, and members of the council are joined together in their opinions on the importance of agriculture, and therefore I rejoice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u41	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The son of Benediktsson for his speech and work on the committee with us all. The work was very positive and good, and I agree with it, and much and good discussions. It would have been fun if it were. A professional health committee would have provided more adjustments in this case, since I am convinced that they had been improved. I'd like to ask you what. A senator because I believe that he agrees with me, that it is very important to create a greater solidarity on Icelandic agriculture than it is today, to eliminate unexplained issues, to have a clearer, better information and closer understanding so that consumers and the public of the country are more aware of what is in all of this. My question to why. The senator is: Does he not believe that the proposal for agri-gri-gri-griture to be carried out by a member of the Parliament, where he would define the national contract objective so that the general council members of the next term can discuss the matter, take opinions, the committee would get the case discussed, the hearing of the hearing, and the review would be a part of an agreement, in order to create greater agreement for Icelandic agriculture, if this debate would occur, instead for several candidates sit down and treat other candidates, who are spoken of me rather than me as being told in a joke, leading to a contract such as we are here? Why not examine and leave that route? It is presented because I am convinced that it would become more and better and that it would eliminate some differences of opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. In my speech just before, I said that I rejoiced in itself for the spirit that appeared in the adjustment he made. I would like us to agree to point out his excellent suggestion to the accountant or hearing field to prepare contracts. We have clearly described it in our committee program, which was here to 2rd. how the territory of consultation should be prepared and how to prepare a domestic agreement at any given time. Whether this will be done in the exact way the senator gives the suggestion, I intend to say nothing more than that this is one way to create a greater agreement on making stock agreements. But I'd also like to say that if we weren't so close to elections, there'd be more people on the green button to settle the hardware contracts this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u43	V.E.G. President. Hv. One senator says that my suggestion I explained earlier was one way to make more peace. Wants to play. A senator, then, does not recommend that it be approved?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u44	A respectable president. I thought I wasn't too vague. I told you to make a suggestion. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller would pay a fine price. We have drawn up and submitted to agrienvironmental ministers and farmers' organization, how we will proceed in the future with farm contracts. I would like to agree with the senator to present his excellent proposal for that job. It may, as I said before, be a good option to prepare the preparation of the new agricultural contracts at any given time using the method he lists there. But let's agree to... [[Just accept it.]] Then we can agree to point out his excellent suggestion to our discussion of how we are going to handle our contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-12-150.u45	Madam President. This has been the case at the Hall of Congress today, with two of the most mismanaged agrienvironments to be guided by, huh? paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson and what. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller. I like what I'm doing. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller sees me as part of the Navy's farm wings. I have always felt the need to do a good thing for farmers. I have always felt that the amount of money running through the hardware agreements is not any sort of agricultural insurance, since the amount of money they are guaranteed there is in fact much lower than it is negotiated in a general labour market. I have considered this primarily to support farm farming in rural areas. I believe that the need to keep the country inhabited is important, therefore it is important for us to strengthen in some way, as are the other nations of the country built and, especially, to emphasize the building blocks that have the weakest foundations. I often find in the discussions here that people misunderstand that this is the original purpose of this kind of agricultural contract, especially as they have evolved over the years. So I tell you clearly that I am among those who think we need to keep farming in the country to pay with him. The support of going where the need is most is greater. The key problem of this contract, however, is that I feel that this is not achieved. I've never secretized that I believe that sheep production is relevant for scattered habitats like, for example. on the northeast corner, on the Westfjords, especially on the Skaft River Swamp, and you may be looking at positive ways in which to support farmers in those areas. But when you look at this agreement, especially the sheep part, I think it is quite clear that at the same time as farm conditions in the world market are turning down significantly because the results and support for farmers in these heavy places are shrinking. When you review how the support is now being done, you first see that water level that everyone has to take on, 70% of the rule is important. Moreover, do not overlook the fact that another contract involved in milk production is likely to reduce the number of farms in the future, the milk being larger, than the need for farmers for any reason to drag milk farms does not mean that they will cause production. It is likely that they will use the investment they already have in some way, e.g. to move on to an increase in sheep'wages and, of course, the fund in which you live will become diluted. This will lead to the end of this contract, just as the farmers living in the less complicated areas of life and possibly worse than farmers, sheep farmers, in other areas where the strength is stronger. This is totally in opposition to my attitude. In fact, it's incomprehensible to me. What I find most difficult about these contracts is that it's like they've been after them behind closed doors. There's been very little consultation. I'll be aware, in view of the criticism of farmers, that there has been very little consultation with the farmers themselves, and I'm not talking about any attempts made to make a team at the General Assembly. They've almost been none. Of course, it is to be promised that the head of the committee is in charge of the professional committee, why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, and what. paritaprevir Surely Haraldur the son of Benediktsson was working hard to save what was saved and to bring back to the last record of some form of consultation and an improved solidarity on this matter. But it must be said just as it is that up to that time there was no consultation between government and government, absolutely nothing. I'm sorry, Mr. Honorable President. What can be said about the discussion is that there are very few people who speak from some optimism about the future of agriculture. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson is one of a few senators who speak with experience and awareness of this. It's always nice to have a conversation with you. Senator on agriculture. However, very few that might be counted and should be done by farmers have come up here to point out the possibilities in this article. Let us not overlook the fact that all of us have certain moral obligations in this world that require more food. The forecast of crowds is that in addition to the nearly 7 billion people living on the globe today, by the middle of the century, it is likely that 3 billion will be added. This calls for an increase in global food production of perhaps 603/4.80 percent over the next five scores of years. Of course, in Iceland we too must look forward to having certain responsibilities in that regard. It will be called in the future for more production of what we can produce. True, the situation in Iceland is in this way and the market situation, so it may not blow out of place, but it must be looked forward to the long future. This is where I feel the government has failed. Now, I'm going to review my first talk as the highest. In the evening of the first day of his coming in at the door, the prime minister, Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, held here, Then he promised it and declared it as he had done when creating a government with the Chairman of the Independence Party on Lake Saturday that one of the things this government would do would be to submit a plan for the future development and prospects of Icelandic agriculture. I can't help but blame the highest. A government for not keeping those promises. Of course, one of the things needed for agriculture is that someone stands up and speaks for him. This is not to be our role here in 101, although men like me have an excellent understanding of the value and importance of agriculture and farmers are to be the role of those who are elected at the Council directly because they volunteer as representatives of farmers. Where are these farmers during the discussion today? Who points to the possibilities that certainly exist? Let us not forget that if we look, for example. and we know the need for beef because import from the outside of the world is increasing, the fact remains that Iceland's production costs have not been met by a streamline of habitats, i.e. The cattle breed is no greater than we can see on average within the OECD countries. Then you ask yourself, " How did it come to be only in the second half of the season when men put it in their eyes and began the journey of trying to build up the cattle farming, including? ' by allowing the import of the gene? If it hadn't been for the man here. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller and, of course, some good men in the management team would have been hardly approved. Still, it is the very foundation for what might become a flourishing industry. There are new words in this contract, and surely it can also be said that it is better to spend money on more than other things that humans have mainly determined funds. If people at one level are spending money on these contracts, I'm proud to think that the contract has a special role in supporting forest farmers to increase their value of forest products. That is truly positive. It also involves another new project, including food from natural resources and is designed to further research a new land. We know that one of the offenses for agriculture and particularly sheep making is that in some places it overexploited the land. We must listen to such criticism. That's why I say we're supposed to go through contracts like this. to channel sheep into places where the land is well - tolerated, as it was. on the beach, like for example. in my beloved Yearnrepp, whom I often mention here as an example, and who could give a long talk about Aarneshrepp, where the foundations are a large, well-valid sheep, which, unfortunately, will get sick because of the shape of this contract and because men did not see what its outcome would be like here. It is also positive in this contract that the support of organic production is tenfold from the previous one. That is truly positive. But otherwise, Madam President, I don't see much looking forward to the future in this deal. If he had, for example. Come in here as we would like many, and as the Union's farm wings spoke right at the beginning of this terms, if the senators had been allowed to hire this counsel in agreement with another member of the Union, he would have looked quite different. It would have been possible that the arguments we have presented against the most difficult things of this contract could not have been so rockyly answered. Of course, what I find to be most difficult about these legislations that we are putting to the last hand on is the fact that it is not intended on the side of the management team to eliminate the exception of competitive legislation enjoyed by the milk industry. It's the hardest case the agriculture has today. Things that have come up because of this have cast a shadow on him. The fact is, in the country, we agree that there is no rage against the agriculture. It is totally unnatural to expect sudden relief from the One who has been built on the side of the State. It is not an intelligent debate that has been heard here only with relatively few members, but it has even been heard in these sales. I want this to be clear because I'm not one of those people who think it's possible to give up support at once. Let us, though, look at the development of these last few decades. In fact, much of the support for agriculture has been progressively reduced. When I entered a council and we had a heated dispute around 1990, the situation was so much higher than 5% of the country's production support. It has not been promoted in absalized since then but has been progressively diluted proportionally. Today, agriculture support is probably less than 1%. The fact is, in many lands, people spend more than that. The important thing, however, is that the money spent on agriculture and in order to be protected in a reasonable way. To that end, it is necessary to make him work toward the goals we have set for ourselves in other areas, e.g. in a contract that we have joined, which is taught at the capital of France, Paris, about measures to reduce climate warming. This contract could have been designed in a way that would have served more fully those goals. I'll say it completely as my opinion that much cognitively it would have been to take larger steps into the system that is e.g. In Europe where farmers are directly helped to stay on earth, to care for the land, to protect themselves, to protect land. Finally, Madam President, let us not forget that agriculture has gained a new meaning in the domestic product by that ancient capital, in effect, has become an essential support for tourism in the country, which is the most remuneration today. Without our landwork and living in the remote areas of the country today, we would not have the opportunity to promote tourism, to expand the borders of travel time because we need the farmers who make room for travel. In this way, what could not be said ten years ago, and by no means 20 years ago, agriculture has become indispensable for tourism. Let us see, too. But the problems with this agreement are large, and the main problem is that the milk industry continues to live with the exception of competitive law. [[The president calls.]] That is why the suggestion should have been agreed to the 2nd. that the contract would definitely be revised during the next term, but it is not a problem, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
