ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u1	V.E.G. President. I'm here to give you two cases, first the program member of a special discussion. More often than not, there is a very useful discussion with them, and I feel that the form of this discussion is very effective. One flaw, though, when I share in this discussion is that two minutes are a little bit of a time, and I agree with another problem. Councilmen who have expressed themselves on this matter and are asked to do so. The President will consider it, now lastly. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson following yesterday's discussion of criminal possession of drugs. Other than that, a respectable president. I'm going to discuss growth and interest levels that are high in all international comparisons. This morning, the money policy committee published its declaration and adheres to a simple operating growth of 5.7% in response to domestic inflation pressure, while the introduction of alien prices was deemed an alternative. It can be concluded by the decision that if this imported prices were not available, there would be good reason to increase the management rate. The purpose of money policy committees and money policy is to maintain stability, and it is important when it comes to buying and buying. On the contrary, high interest rates are burdensome for both home and professional life. It is one of the main interests of long-term economic management that we do not get caught in this growth stage, with this high interest, with the risk of the related influx of capital resources in the form of waxing trade. This affects export work fields and can have very serious consequences for tourism and can affect the development of emissions. Of course, this is a persistent, but at the same time an urgent problem that needs to be solved in a large context of financial, financial, employment markets, and dissociative insurance on property loans to consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u2	A respectable president. There is much to do about the right - to - do government and its members. But one good thing is that they provide us with excellent discussions from day to day. What was fresh and fine during last night's discussion has become obsolete and old today, unfortunately. Today, it is found that the prime minister couple are registered in Tortola, among the demands of all the Icelandic banks of hundreds of millions of dollars. While the average people, families, and homes had to endure the collapses, and after fighting from day to day to keep their homes going in the penitentiary and their fallen crowns and trying to fulfill their commitments, the Prime Ministers had to deal with their family income in foreign tax documents. At the same time that the prime minister repeatedly demanded of this platform during his last term, he was told who was the real owners of the banks, who were the crews, the vultures, he was one of them. This sets the party's slogan for the country's homes in a way quite different and less attractive than this. Everything is wrong with this case, a respectable president, and it does not measure up in any of the minimum demands required by politicians. It is therefore a perfectly natural wish that this meeting will be delayed and the prime minister will be able to explain his case to the Council. At the same time, it is reasonable to make a requirement for other ministers and members of Congress, who, if any, have not yet been informed about a similar matter. It would be a professional, respectable president to continue this meeting without it. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate my wish that a council meeting be postponed, and Prime Minister will explain his case to the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u3	Mr. President. I called Haust practice this morning to get information about when the earnings would be used in the last edition of the sociopathic and biography research of the Habitat. There was no answer. In 2013 tax returns are used. So I asked about Eurostat's final diagnosis, and the answer was: Iceland's Tea Count is also from 2013. And in the latest OECD analysis, there are older numbers. I thought this too, but I still wanted confirmation from Haguems because of it. Councilmen of the forward party and the Supreme Court. Ministers of the same category are constantly reporting and writing about the fantastic success of the right government in achieving an increased equation and a reference to these analyses. However, every reliable measurement of the effectiveness of the left control. I like to see that the results are done, and such sentences make me happy, like the ones you're doing. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson wrote in a newspaper article during the days and is like this, with the permission of a president: 'It's actually a lying situation, and it's an amazing success. And he goes on: However, there is concern that despite the increase in income level and money costs, the nation will not experience this in Iceland. It is not hoped that people today will not experience that in Iceland, the lying situation and the amazing results are not caused by the work of the right government. An equation was determined by recent changes in taxes and taxes that benefit the rich, after an increase in food taxation, or by the last treatment of the ideals of the elderly and the poor, does not exist. The results of the analysis are due to the work of the left control. But the question remains, Mr. President. Know what. Councilmen and the highest. Don't the Ministers of the Foreign Party feel any better, or are they deliberately using deception?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u4	V.E.G. President. I'm going to begin my case with the request for a lawsuit like the one who had it. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason offers us the opportunity. I think that the bottom was reached, and I don't think it's likely that any men at the bottom of this place will find it hard to feel resistance to get up. It's completely unsurpassed to have a case like this. All the good things of a husband and wife are on the table, all the taxes have been paid, and there's nothing to hide here. I insist on what to do. A senator apologizes for his words. Otherwise, I'm going to start by congratulating Akureyri with the International Arctic Commission's decision to transfer her main office to Akureyri. Here is another example of the outcome of the government's good works that is directly involved in society and is being used for its wide variety of infrastructure. Two or three additional jobs will be provided to the office and to work with international committees. It will support the development of the northern states, which are already in the region, and to further research in the university town of Akureyri. That's fine. It leads me to another matter that the government has had in charge of environmental and environmental management, as environmental and resource ministers have now published waste prevention policies. I have considered this before I want to point out that the presentation of the policy that brings the name together to waste will be in the morning and is open to all. Food waste will be the priority for the first two years of the policy and will take various measures in this field of presentation at the meeting. The waste issue is increasingly important because of increased restrictions on its management. Granted, many rural communities have been very successful in this area, but still Iceland and I still lack a sense of comparison with most European nations. V.E.G. President. This is a matter that we individually can take responsibility for and do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u5	A respectable president. Iceland's Animal Protection Association feels that in the highest sense, those who are fierce against animals are funded by public funds through a market agreement and that the General wants changes there to be made in a new market agreement. Thus, at the World Trade Agency's Committee on Proclamation for Animal Health, requested at General 2013, the Committee directed to the Directorate of Professional Road and Development to take this point in particular to review the revision of agricultural and agricultural products and to renew contracts on the basis of them. It is unnatural for those who accept payment from a government fund to break the law at the same time. It has been made clear in the recent discussion, particularly in connection with the poor management of some pig populations after the assessment of the Food Organization, that the public in Iceland is not prepared to give a discount when it comes to the well - being of animals. I agree with the Management of the Animal Protection Union and I believe it is reasonable to believe that a public granting of animal control will be permitted and that it will enter the new market agreement. In general for a new livestock contract, I'd like to say that I have a lot of faith in Icelandic agriculture and I believe there are some of the best groceries in the world, including with the least antibiotic use in the world that is very important. On the other hand, I would like to see the agriculture released from the out - of - date system strengthen and change that we now live in, and I think will hold back the men in that article and the opportunities there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u6	A respectable president. Travel day was held yesterday. It was good for a member of the council to experience the strength and joy that exists in traveling overseers. The budget of this article grows daily, has an average of 1.2 billion per day, with a total of over 400 billion each year. Most of the problems mentioned here are positive in a powerful article. The distribution of tourists through the country and bioavailability and safety concerns are important factors involved. The Parliament and the government stand their plumage, faster infrastructure, maintenance of roads, and first resorting to tourists to represent the costs of further national infrastructure. Farmers and landowners must also participate in that structure. The tourism fund is more powerful than ever, and it is important to make good use of the funds available there for the construction of tourists, to improve safety and meanings of the country. The car and toilets that are run by services are tasks to be looked up and recorded by rural and landowners. All I see is a chance at travel. There are capable, hardworking people who know how to make use of opportunities. The results speak for themselves. The individual enterprise speaks for itself. I congratulate traveling overseers on the results.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u7	Mr. President. As noted earlier, it is safe to say that the government groups are giving us a subject to talk every day and sometimes many each day. I took the stone out of it when these reports appeared in the papers last night and then on today. You ask yourself, is there anything more under a rock somewhere? The administrative home does not seem to have total peace. Last night, only the issues that the classes seem to not get together and are quite large. This, for example, is the location of the Hospital. A health minister claims that he should be at the Ring Road, but prime minister has at least two suggestions for setting up a new land hospital. There, there is a distinction, and in some cases it is impossible to offer such a thing in a sensitive matter as it is. The contracts, we've heard the Independence Party and his deputies express their views on what the Prominent Minister has done. We have heard that the houses and housing plants are not the only ones there. The insurance policy, the Independence Party speaks against the declared policy of the Agency for decommissioning insurance. The payment for the modern travel services makes the move almost a joke to the advance minister and professional minister. The bank, whether we're going to sell the banks, there's a serious disagreement in this regard, despite the approval of the moveees. Then there is the birthworm the latest, where the Independence Party foot soldiers appeared and spoke against the highest order. Ministers, Harðardóttir Hardydó, where she had received suggestions from a working group whom she obviously intended to follow in some way. The analysis is everywhere, in all main lines, and in large areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u8	A respectable president. I would especially like to celebrate here that the International Arctic Scientific Committee agreed at its meeting on March 14 that the Committee will move from Germany to Akureyri by the next year. For one thing, the government of Iceland decided in mid - February to recommend a prime minister to provide funding for its operation for the next five years. The aim of the International Arctic Scientific Committee is to promote the cooperation of research in the Arctic and to provide counseling to governments on their issues. The Agency provides public research institutions and organisations from 23 countries and has established their place as one of the most important international cooperation centres for research and monitoring in the north. Since its beginning, Dr. Rannis has been a member of the Committee for Iceland. The International Arctic Scientific Committee plays an important role in the exchange of information from the scientific community to the Arctic Council on the results of studies of nature and community changes in the north. I have had the opportunity to observe this work and to get to know it through my work in the National Parliamentary Conference on Arctic, and I know it matters. The office will be an important addition to the powerful northern or northern cluster now in Akureyri. These include the founding of William the son of William and two of the Council offices, and the work is also a specialised company in the collection, extraction and communication of information on northern, Arctic Portal, and Iceland's Arctic network. Thus, there can be an even greater number of work to be expected in the northern regions of Akureyri. The international scientific community has increased access to a strong link between scientists in the north, and the international scientific interest in the research work with the Icelanders is likely to increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u9	Mr. President. In many parts of the world, the block of power is using oppression and oppression. I'm going to quote an article at the reactor that tells us about Ketill Sigurjónsson, a energy expert who has been out of the Ennis log for a long time. In his new entry, he said that the bank manager of the Icelandic banking system contacted him and warned that Northern World was preparing a campaign against his language. The company would be trying to hire public links to the project. The bank manager added, with president's permission: 'They intend to destroy you.' Ketill has been giving a thorough consideration to the benefits of sea cables and the low energy prices that foreign industrial companies pay for energy in Iceland. He's dependent on many of the magazine debates with the executives of the major industry in Iceland, including those who run cases in North Africa, who run an aluminium on a suspect and have been headed for a building of aluminium plants in Helguvík. In part, Ketill's latest record shows that he was e - mailed by the head of the Northern States to work for himself as a result of Ketill's criticism of the energy store to an aluminium in a U.S. news report show. It says: ▪ It was interesting that in the middle of 2014, I was contacted by an experienced executive in one of the largest financial companies. And she told me that the head of North Africa is calling the company's manager and complaining about their cooperation with me. I just want to stress that it is known in the country that in many lands there are power barriers that silence people, promote careerism, and prevent people from getting jobs. It is a serious matter in a democracies society what it is always to achieve that these big corporations, whether in the sea or in the sea or in any other part of the country, banks or political groups, are extorting the public, who have democratic views and who want to communicate with the people of the country through the media. [[The president calls.]] Let us not do so. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to make it a subject for the duration of the term in the General Assembly. These ideas have been developed and formed from the forces of two members of the General Assembly, see Pirata and the United States, that there is reason for having the ideal period at the end of the next election far shorter than the law stated, i.e. Nine months. It seems to me that the elected representatives and even the groups themselves in question have some problem taking their stand on the existing proposal for a change in the constitution. However, the current suggestions are simple and understandable. This idea has been presented in a way that the next term refers exclusively to a constitution, as practitional as it is today. I'm gonna leave it between parts of this time. I, however, wondered about the length of the ideal period in general, and there are many words. As you know, it's four years here. There are many other ways. I'd like to draw attention to two concerning the duration of the election season. For example, for a short term, it is proper to remember that it may be extremely difficult to get new ones into the open if the ideal period is short. Is it realistic, for example, that many who are successful elsewhere are willing to give it up for elections and reelections in one year? There is also the fact that a brief terms of election surely reduces the peace of work at the General Assembly, even making a four - year term, as recent cases prove, where an election tremor now seems to be a characteristic of the comment and ideas of a number of recent developments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u11	A respectable president. It's sad to hear it when it comes to it. Presidents come here trying to bring the discussion down to the finish line. I can't put it that way. The discussion has made a lot of birth lagoon. Fathers are one of the most equal tracks ever taken in this country. For us, this old one who didn't enjoy this fair system in our childbearing is very special but happy to see fathers walking around town with a baby carriage. It was almost an exception to seeing it in the past. In fact, I admit that it was bad to lose young men on vacations in order to care for their children, but it's not a big deal today, of course it is. As a result, young men not only share in raising their children but also share much more with their normal household chores. How sad it is, then, that from sailors who repeatedly reject the birth or holiday reserves of applications or cut money to sailors on the basis of views and conditions that do not support the fund! Has provided funds for sailors' applications indicated complete lack of knowledge about sailors' jobs, their arrangements and their pay system, which, of course, differs from that of people who work in the country. In the past few years, the U.S. commissioner has repeatedly broken the fund's hands and made it come back to him by his decisions, but it seems that the fund will continue on the same path. The seafaring process has changed dramatically, often based on long outings and long vacations, which must certainly not be done to rule out sailors from the rights that all other members of society have.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u12	A respectable president. There's a lot of stuff written here at a council, as well as in magazines and news shows and looks like who they are. It is good for people to think of new ideas and to want to look at factors that they feel should be different from those already determined. The location of the Land Hospital at the Ring Road has been very recent, and there have been ideas of traveling far and wide. It's all in itself with the idea of talking about building hospitals, but I think that the building of hospitals as determined here at the council must be binding until further notice. In the near future, people can talk about another hospital, where they want it, and who they want to direct that speech. However, the construction of the Land Hospital at the Ring Road is in harmony with a law made by the Council of No. 64/2010. These projections are also in line with Generalis's conclusion of May 16, 2014, of the renewal and construction of the Land Hospital on the Circle Course. And they are in accordance with current and previous years' budgets. There is nothing wrong, though, with the idea of a change of ideas and other ideas. However, as long as the law is bound and the resolution of the Council on how to deal with them, the only action will be made by administering a new case that makes up the present case, bound to the law of No. 64/2010, and Generalis resolution of 16 May 2014. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u13	A respectable president. I wanted to make a comment on the financial minister's answer to the question of the Bjarks Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. I thank Bjarkey very much for the question of police pay. The answer is that in 2014, police wages remind me of the same things they were in 2002. This will help us to see how this can affect if the total pay is not as close as possible to the basic wage, how it can be when a recession and cuts begin in some article. All overtime and monitoring, and in this case, arms pressure, down. I think that much less is paid for today's arms load in the police, although it is more common today that the police have to be armed. At the same time that our assignments are becoming more challenging, there is a growing number of them that reduce their pay. The staff have been shrinking, or the number has been replaced. That's not a good development. This development is because police officers lost their right to strike, as the question shows. Instead, they received certain measures to ensure that their wages would develop with other professions. Since the strike court passed, however, the government has never wanted to respect the way that replaced it. Then this will be the conclusion. Now it's very important whether it's in the form of a strike trial or if there's any way we can determine the pay of cops. It must be done so that the State is committed to acting in that way, not always wearing it in the dresser agreements, and then all the contemporaneous devices are found to ignore it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u14	A respectable president. During these last few days, I have been windowing the General's study report. In particular, I have lingered in the eighth volume, in the moral code called. It's not for no reason. Lately, you have had the impression that an Icelandic society is reentering the exact same mess and putting bones on your head a few years ago. We see enormous profits in the financial system, huge offers, insurance companies paying off money far beyond profits, unexplained sales on banks'property, without the offer of an invitation. Allegative report, hello! At the same time, officials seem to be occupied by their own whims. Few cases, if any, enter the council. Ministers are busy moving and uniting organizations as they pick out what they find most exciting at their own level. Strength reserves are swept from the application environment into the Minister's drawer. Volume 8 of the General's investigation report, good morning! What happened to the new Iceland, the transparency and the campaign in professional schemes that everyone talked about here for a few losses? Where is the Board of Human Rights? He was swept aside. Where's the new Landsspike? Yes, someone is hanging out to scratch him into a new place. We are now looking at disturbing developments in the politics of the countries around us; Donald Trumps's president's offer, the good luck of fasian fish in Eastern Europe, and now the last of the district elections in Germany. The democracy is not default. Please note that the General's study report was published in 2010, just about six years ago. How powerful are those who play for the lives of their goldfish! I'm telling you, I'm telling you. And hell!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u15	A respectable president. Small - fat prime minister in health matters is tragic. There is a serious situation in our health - care system. In many places there is a shortage. It's called for reforms. Tens of thousands of Icelanders are signing a challenge to the government to remedy this. And what does the prime minister do? Yes, he decides to make people argue about where to build houses. What is the oldest successful book in politics in Iceland? It is that Icelanders are always willing to argue about where to build a house. A discussion about this will always overshadow a subject's speech. A respectable president. I urge people not to turn their eyes away from the urgent work that is evident in the medical system, the high cost of patient participation, the bad conditions the Landspians have in many respects for housing and other facilities, the lack of mental - health services to children, and many other important aspects of our health system, the lack of money in our medical systems. I urge people not to be deceived, not to let the prime minister get away with dividing the nation among themselves, and against where any house should rise, because they, a respectable president, are always secondary. What really matters is what goes on inside the house, that the service there is adequate, that the money we spend on health care is sufficient, and that patients are not missing out on medical expenses. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u16	President. The president has misunderstood my request earlier, I was not asking that financial matters be discussed by individuals outside the council. I was asking that this be discussed the incident in today's media. The prime minister, through his financial community in the world's taxes, has been the demanding head of the bank at the same time as the Icelandic government has been negotiating with the demands. It's under the roof. But yesterday he was making a deal with them? For example. This is a serious matter, a respectable president, and I reiterate my wish before continuing, before this matter is discussed further, that a meeting will be postponed, and the prime minister will be given a chance at what I think is fair and normal, to enter this hall, in this chair, and to make this matter clear to the council. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u17	The president felt that he had answered that question quite clearly with no, and he is well aware of this. A senator is referring to the financial news of his wife's wife, who, in the highest way, consider this to be most unacceptable, and therefore completely rejects this request. The president points out that, among other things, at the General's topic report, it is very clear that information on the financial status of members of the Parliament is not relevant. He's sorry for this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u18	V.E.G. President. I'm about to come up here to support the President's conference board. A president of his stand, as revealed in his case. We are living in a time of equality. Women and men have the right to have rights, and we who have a mate and who work here at the council know that at times the work at home is under way. To be drawn up to the General Assembly's public address on the financial issues of the marriage of a government minister is contraband, and those members of the council who present this program on a table to a great decrease and a total of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u19	A respectable president. It is now that it is not as if the discussion is raised on the side of the discussion. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason is taken out of thin air. That statement is made by a wife of the highest order. One prime minister, who is truly her financial concern, is accompanied by the discussion that Jóhannes, an assistant minister, handles the media in this regard. So linking this matter with the position of prime minister and his interests and to his interest registration is a decision they have made for themselves. That is why it is perfectly natural for us to discuss it here as to whether it is the right thing to do - we are here today discussing ethical rules - that of a national interest log in the case of a wealthy domestic interests if the public is visible, whether the requirement is not legitimate. [[The president calls.]] I'm just asking people to breathe with their nose in that stuff. Isn't this something that you can talk about with no soup?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u20	The president insists that he has spoken clearly in this matter, and he does not in himself have much to add. Discussing what should be done on the General's interest log is another discussion that we can take later. It has been often discussed, though, whether to have information about the members of the Parliament's marriage in the Generals' interest log, the conclusion that this should not be so, and the decision has been supported by the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u21	A respectable president. I want to thank the President for speaking as strongly and clearly as he did. I'm almost out of words about what's being served here at the council. I thought we had the low point of pulling the families of members of the Parliament and elected men into a discussion in the General Meeting chair. I thought we were further in equality and understanding that we are all individuals. I can't believe we're going back to the low level we were on a few years ago, where it was traditional to be advising each individual out of town from the front of the World Council. I hope the council has gone further and there are other times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u22	Mr. President. I have also been hoping that there would be other times and that humans would be advocates of transparency and that information on stake ties and such things would be motivated willingly and freely. We are on the agenda for this meeting a proposal for a resolution on the Code of the Generals. It reads the number F to 5. that members of Congress should report all the interests that are important and have to do with their public work. Eight. is, by permission of the president: ▪ The members of the House shall avoid conflicts between the public interest and their financial interests or other interests that are professional, personal or family-related. In the 9th. says: ▪ The Senators should call attention to all relevant interests in the treatment of a matter. He's at the top of the watch. Prime Ministers pay attention to his family interests as a requirement in Icelandic banks when there was a prime bill on stable taxes and stable donations? Would he not have violated the code of morality if they had not? [[The president calls.]] And that's how you could continue to count. I think that's what we're talking about. Councilmen did not defend themselves at the highest. When properly recorded, prime minister did not address this information by referring to it as an attack on his wife. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u23	A respectable president. The study may not surprise us. This is part of the reason, I think, for some reason, the Council suggests little trust. That's the shit that these fine senators, some of whom have spoken, have been doing for years from this platform, speaking down the General Assembly, and drawing into a talk in the platform of things that are happening in themselves to what we're doing nothing about. It's very, very remarkable, I have to say it. Here, members of the Governing Body combine points that have been explained by the wife of the prime minister, the financial one. Right away. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask here quotes certain things, and it was her money that was involved, as I have understood it, not as prime minister's money. They're married today, certainly. But going on this shit mission like a dog. Councilmen of the left green seem to lead here is absolutely sad, and that's what's killing themselves with trust in the Council. - It's clear who's in for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u24	A respectable president. Thank you for your friendly reception from the highest. Secretary of state. What I just read was from the media, was from the State Radio, and are confirmed sources, including those from the Ministry of Presidency. There's no mention of any members of Congress and Ministers except members of the board. This includes top priority information from the Ministry of Presidency. A member of the Icelandic bank, owner of a partner registered in Tortula, who then made demands of all the Icelandic banks, was owned by the prime minister. [[For example, consider: It's wrong.]] In fact, it is confirmed by the wife of the prime minister. It's this, to the highest. Ministers should not have identified their own interests as an individual, as a senator, and then as a prime minister who is negotiating at the same time with the demands he himself calls a vulture, that he should have interests on that side of the table as well. [[Case number: Take it right.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why this case is in here, and I want to give it to the highest. Prime Minister, the opportunity to explain his language to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u25	Mr. President. I declare that I am disappointed at the highest level. The president will take the matter into account in a way that has not been observed here. There's some kind of holy look, scandalous look here, talking about equality and stuff like that. It has nothing to do with this. This is a big issue in the media, a statement by the Ministry of Presidency, made by a woman at the highest level. Prime Minister. If we were in other parts of the North, this case would be scheduled and would be called to the highest level. The prime minister recognized what is going on there. We're in a enlightened community, calling for transparency. Is it not a natural requirement for our senators to insist on giving the highest? Is it possible for the prime minister directly to make this position clear to the council? There's no one here giving a prejudicial sentence. But let's just hear what the prime minister would like to say about these matters and discuss them at the council and stop being prudence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u26	The president wants to correct what he has said in the past, and now it is time to vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u27	A respectable president. We vote for a bill for a full-scale punitive law. The case was taken into account between the 2nd and 3rd. I thank you for the changes made on the bill on that round. Among other things, the correction has come in, and it is a great improvement, not just to have it come in but to a definition of it. I also rejoice that a group of people are expected here to reevaluate electronic monitoring procedures in the execution of penalties that have come in. I'm still on notice about the bill. It is mainly a matter of reviews by the authorities to collect fines and charges because I am concerned with paying back those who have violated the law and are therefore aware of it. Similarly, I have a warning on the overall context of the bill because I believe there is too much evidence that there is being given power to the financial systems at the expense of prisoners'rights and corrections. [[The president calls.]] We will vote for the change but remain neutral to the whole bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u28	V.E.G. President. I'm glad we got to the point where we're going to vote on this bill. Thank you for your cooperation with the Committee. We've made some adjustments. It is best to be able to relate to the discussion that was formed in the 2nd issue. The issue is that we have a new provision for the collection, where a minister will be assigned to set up a staff to revise the government's resources to collect fines and charges with the aim of improving the collection ratio and for which the staff is expected to submit no later than October 1, 2016. The purpose of this preliminary principle is to meet the viewpoints expressed, both in the Committee itself and in the Hall of Congress, to seek all ways to improve the collection rate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u29	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to know that the matter was taken between the 2nd and the 3rd. The committee gathers to make good adjustments that we in the short future will face and, of course, support. Even though there are many benefits in the bill, we would have wanted to go further and more radically, especially with regard to the correction factor in full punishment, and that is why when it comes to voting for the whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u30	Mr. President. I also sign this particular opinion in advance. As with others in the lesser part, it is primarily about the overall context of the bill, i.e. We would've wanted to go further, including... With regard to the reform factor, as we have been told. The bill is too much because suggestions are being made on a budgetless system instead of looking further into the future and the need to increase the funding into the system to meet very many challenges facing the rights of prisoners. We left the greens to these changes and pay our votes to them but will sit by the bill when it comes to votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u31	A respectable president. Well, there's not much to add. I vote for a change of motion. I'm on notice in the Committee opinion which is the same as the others have and with regard to the overall context of the bill. I'm especially happy for the change that came between the 2nd and 3rd. You know, there's a lot of good things in this bill, but there's a lot of things that aren't so good, so I'm just going to sit by a vote for the whole bill. I also want to take advantage of this opportunity and thank you. paritaprevir In particular for the commission work in this case, Brá Konráðsdóttir. It was very good, and I think this is an excellent example when the council is successful in working together, even though we often have different views of specific points.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u32	A respectable president. It is a fine thing, but its leadings and equipment are inexplicable. Therefore, in the short future, we cannot support it. There have been reports on both the environment and transport committees now and for the last time when this case came up that there are some things that are not solved in this case, e.g. The interaction of this bill with the EEA's redlist, the European Commission Fund for tourism and the management center for tourism. Also, it is not clear what the position of the three - year strategy is toward the institutions now setting priorities for their own transport projects in public places. There is a real danger that the network of this bill is too complicated to deal with the process, consultation, decision-making, and interaction of the existing system. This is similar in many ways to wearing a pottery in shelfs and closets without first washing up and drying away.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u33	A respectable president. I don't think it's possible to top the dishes. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur, but I agree with it because this is some kind of addition to a system that has not been coordinated. This system has not been synced together. Here, some additional cover - up of the whole cleat is proposed without facing the absence of system synchronization. I think the most important thing that could be done in building infrastructure for the tourism in the country would be to create a transport plan and put money into the important infrastructure of transport in Iceland, since other things are really political in nature. This vote will include VG.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u34	President. We vote for national planning policies that are authorized to submit and settle at the General Assembly in accordance with existing planning laws. However, there are several chapters on this course. The project is primarily designed to coordinate existing land use and land use programmes, and it is well established. Yet, it cannot be said that no record can be completed that a section on the central highlands is different from leaving a national park in the middle of the country. This proposal is for the treatment of an environment and transport committee and we, of course, expect it to progress here in accordance with much support in the community. It is the best way to hold onto the international organization, and I hope it will be. While we have not ensured this conclusion in the national policy, we see left - handed greens no other way than to sit next to these payments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u35	A respectable president. I agree with what is happening. Svandís The Svavarsdóttir, founder of a national park in Iceland's central highlands, was in many ways a natural codfish of this case, and would be happy if the council cooperated. There's a lot of reason for that among the people. It is the same with this matter as with what we did in previous votes; things need to be looked overall and working from scratch. It is also necessary that governments who intend to work in a way that allows for building structures or presenting themselves to the Council for national planning are prepared and ready to observe such procedures. Then people can ask themselves, " Do I have a government that does so and wonder why no transport plan has been introduced into the council all this terms, as the law and the rules assume? ' Where is she? Did they send her abroad? If not followed, why are people on the move to make such a decision? [[The president calls.]] A bright future will be with us on the side of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u36	V.E.G. President. The three cases that we now vote for in one bait from the Westnoric Department of Iceland. I give the council special pleasure by saying that we are at the point where hopefully the council is going to accept these suggestions. A lot of work has been put into them. The cooperation of Iceland, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands is important to us. We are proud to be powerful associates of these two neighboring nations, and now we are putting a clear assignment on the table for our government on how we see the best way to go forward with even more cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u37	V.E.G. President. We vote for a plagiarization proposal that has a broad convergence in the council. Its officials are the prime committee and the presidents of all councils. The Commission and the Commission are all behind this matter, but some changes were made in the treatment of the Committee. However, the rules that the senators set themselves do not impair in any way the freedom of members of Congress to revere their cognition, while setting certain moral standards for members of the council, make it easier to call out for information on the alleged financial and interest relationships without being accused of engaging in an attack. Like recent examples, there is nothing to do with getting off such a bike.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u38	A respectable president. I'm glad this case has come for a vote. It is long since time for the Council to adopt a code of ethics. I just wanted to make sure that this is not the end of this journey, but the very beginning. Law code is not a law code as we normally know it, nor is it a substitute for the code of the Law. It is especially important as the basis for a discussion. I'm glad the Council is doing this, but I'm sorry that it took so many years to get together as much for granted as it was for us to set moral standards.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u39	A respectable president. I thank the co-sponsorts the lawsuit and my members of the Board of Directors and Control Committee for a discussion on the bill. I think this is a very important step that there is good reason to celebrate and, of course, to be part of a larger picture of our government system and a democratic system that has been attacked after the 2008 economic collapse that has set up regulations on the finance of political parties, political finance, government ethics, and now the Code for the General Assembly. I hope that the changes in the case of the committee are for the benefit and rejoice that the issues that may arise on this subject have finally found a route that is different from the political debates in the platform.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u40	A respectable president. I agree with the words of others, and I rejoice that there have been a moral code in which many people, including the United States, are treated. Our conduct of members of Congress, how we act in the halls, how we speak about one another, and how we handle matters in this hall, and not only that but also in what ways we as members of the Parliament consider each one of us as to how we are going to apply the rules presented here. Moral standards do not change people's morals, but they are ours to consider in what ways we can apply and apply them to our morals, each one of us. I welcome the manner of this bill, a respectable president, and I believe that there is a reason to congratulate a president who has led this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u41	A respectable president. I also congratulate a respected president of this matter. Then I would also like to reflect the comments that came from the reason. paritaprevir Proppér that this is the beginning site, not the final location. It is important that we continue to consider such matters as the interests of a minister and the laws that require ministerial responsibility and the like. I expect that discussion will continue, but this is a very good basis for having such conversations in some common sense that we all have. That's a great improvement and a great joy in my opinion. Again, I thank a respectable president and congratulate him, as well as the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u42	V.E.G. President. I congratulate us on having reached this stage, but I also declare that I hope that God and good spirits, along with these rules, will help us maintain good manners and be polite here in this hall. [[Strike out: Hallelujah.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u43	A respectable president. It is important that the Council pursue an ambitious and forward - looking policy for new investors. It's not that policy. She doesn't say anything about what's at the top. A minister will do what measures to take carefully to promote these investments. The managers understand this layer innuendo and kruss, and most people find that it is inexplicable. Most of it, however, makes sense to policy. It says that Iceland's speciality on energy production is to be based. Of course, we know exactly what it means, that it should be more active because of understanding. The head of the trade board is that there is nothing going on in this country because of the calmness of those activities. What is more, the greater part suggests that even the wicked will not be allowed to deal with the whole country. The capital area is specifically taken out. This is a policy to promote new investors. We in a bright future do not like that, we want general action, we want companies to be able to work and all the services being carried out in competitive ways. [[The president calls.]] We're gonna say no to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u44	Mr. President. My left side of green is with this, and I am the vice president of the work committee, along with my fellow members, have promoted me in the process of changing, mainly the commitment of Iceland from the UN climate conference on climate. Here's a modification suggestion about it and I think it's a great deal of a phase to get it in. Furthermore, I'm warning that much emphasis must be placed on infrastructure in order to improve the possibility of new investors throughout the country. There is really no built-in structure in this country. I also realize in my advance that on the left green, I want to highlight the 2010 Parliamentary arrangement for the growth of the green economy which I think is very important. There seems to be some misunderstanding that is involved in a situation that attracts the people of this world. It's not that we're dealing with the indiscretions, we're dealing with new investors, and it's high in reporting that it's being turned from the course of turning energy into a major industry, and we're in the process of turning it into smaller and lower energy users. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u45	A respectable president. I want the firm stand for the future on this matter. It is important that we set a course, but something needs to be made up of that direction, and it needs to be clear. Sadly, this policy is neither a bird nor a fish. It can be read as a basis primarily for increased energy efficiency and, therefore, for increased activation. This policy is not general but precisely specific to certain types of enterprises and areas of the country that are not in the spirit we would like to see new investors remain in. Although we would like to be on the move for new investors, we do not have the confidence that this course is not general and that it really is quite old-fashioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u46	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this council-student arrangement, which highlights that the development of a wide range of employment tools in the country's region, with solidity in mind, will be considered particularly for the development of a wide range of facilities in the country. Special emphasis on this does not mean that the capital area is left out. It also says that electricity distribution and transport systems have been specifically developed. In particular, smaller enterprises are seen in energy industry, not in industry. It's going to be a climate issue, and I'm saying that I'm going to sign this in advance because I'm stressing the need to view globally on climate issues when making decisions about the location of certain activities. [[The president calls.]] Then I'm talking about whether it would be more beneficial for climate to build up that activity here on land or anywhere else around the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u47	A respectable president. In many lands, the situation of young people is growing. Recently, international magazine assessments of the status of young people in many of our neighboring countries have been published, people born between 1980 and 1995, showing that in those countries this generation enjoys low rates, low wages, fewer employment conditions, and more expensive housing markets than those of the previous generations. As a member of the United Nations, therefore, we believe it is important that we cross this position in our community. We know that the market is difficult for young people today, but we also need to examine the other factors, income, and other positions. That's why we've submitted this request, to get comparable information for Iceland, as it has been in an international discussion about the status of the young generation. I hope we can use the results of this report to build improvements for the young people in the country in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u48	A respectable president. I'm glad we're looking into things for the future. I've previously asked for what is known as traditional generation accounts. I hope that that's what they're asking for because it's very important that we think about the future. We agreed to a law on public financial matters that clearly aims to keep our eyes on not just next year's budget but over time. How important it is that we know what long - term commitments we have for the future, especially for young people! Happily, we stand better than most of the nations we compare ourselves with, e.g. Because we have this kind of pension system while Europe's nations at least Old Europe, all the same have a flow system, and it's a lot better off than we are. We're supposed to be thinking about the future, and I'm glad that this request has arrived. We're supposed to work this way, and I'm going to vote with the request.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u49	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a panel of members of the bill to legalize the law of housing partners, no. 66/2003, with subsequent changes. That is the legal position of homekeeping partners and housing managers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u50	The president asks for sounds in the conference hall and side halls.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u51	A traveling committee has discussed the matter and has arranged for visitors to meet with them. In addition, there were reports of a number of parties on the issue. Before I continue to speak, I want to thank them. Councilmen sitting at ease. The welfare committee for good cooperation with the handling of this case. The bill suggests changes in housing law, No. 66/2003, which aims to improve the working conditions of the partners and to clear and improve the legal status of the homeholder. Material changes include the assessment of budgets every three years, the prohibition of their buying rights on farms, the limit of living conditions to one-third of the market market prices of a camp and the order to exit farms under the forced sale of an apartment. Although they made comments on individual regulations, visitors and clients were generally positive toward the bill and its objectives. Mr. President. I'm going to study the key chapters of the bill and explain to them. First, mention the chapter, which discusses the maximum amount of home planning. The bill suggests that housing partnerships make up the amount of mortgage tax. However, the price must be only higher than the equivalent of one-third of the market value of the local market for the possession of farms. The committee believes that it is important to limit the risk of farm conditions in this respect. He has no guarantee of recovery. In any case, the amount of living conditions may be estimated to be less than one third of the market value. It does not show how to determine the market value of an apartment. The Committee discussed whether an apartment's food prices should be based on the basis of a better limits to the maximum amount of living conditions. However, the main goal is that the estimate for the start of February is based on a start-up of the month or so before cooking and the market value of a store may be different when the sale is purchased. So the committee does not suggest a change in this situation. The Commission, however, generally feels that it is normal to maximise the home payment of a home-seat facility, unless there is reliable information that its market value has changed when buying the home label. Second, it is a section on the information delivery to the home safe haven. The Commission suggests that they will refer to the last annual account of society rather than a annual account for the next year. The annual account for the next year may not be available for the construction of a contract. The Commission also suggests adding indicators for the community's general position and the basis for a living tax. In view of the fact that annual accounts may be difficult for many, and since the situation may have changed since the return of the last year, the Commission considers that a social union with prospective homeholders is important. The committee believes that it is important to cross the foundation of a living tax because it is an important part of the duties of a homeholder and that it is important that it be able to figure out how it is calculated. Next, we have a chapter about the conditions of the apartment, the assessment, and the maintenance. The bill says that a store should be delivered followed by an apartment-related package that is designated as a home-separated contract that applies to its home-seat and is available for the purchase of home estates. If the sentence was literally understood, he would deny that there was both a post and a residence agreement. In order to facilitate this interpretation, the Commission suggests that instead of saying that a store should be dispensed, this package should be adhered to when the owner of the home checked the apartment for a second contract. The bill also says that if a farm is not in the condition that the home sea holder had to expect, he would be made an informer of his housework partners within a suitable delay from delivery, and in each way he would be required. However, the result of the Society's failure to accept a new requirement is not recommended, since a home-seat-age contract may be permitted to be broken on the basis of Article 21. The law. The Commission suggests that if a housing partnership does not begin to improve the budget within four weeks of the report by the farmeer, he will be allowed to address the demands and reduce the cost of living, as an assessment has been made in the home setting, and a review of the applicant's opinion of the need for the repair and the related costs has been made. At the same time, the commission suggests that there will be a period of time needed to address the critical issues in the context of Article 16. A rent. The bill also says that a housing partner is allowed to request an assessment of the condition of the home apartment to be considered a reason. In addition, it is stated that the home state should then be allowed access to the apartment by the employer. The Committee considers it desirable to place the access of a housing partnership to the home of the home of the homeholders of a clearer limit, as its home is granted immunity under the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. Therefore, the Commission suggests that housing partnerships need permission in the approved organisation to demand assessment of the estate, outside the assessment at the beginning and closing of the contract. Despite the changes, trade union partners will continue to be allowed access to their apartment for observation if the partner has reasoned that severe legal panels are on maintenance or that the facility is used in ways that are not allowed. The bill assumes that the home state and housing partners will agree, but do not tell how to handle this. Therefore, the Committee suggests that those who wish to be candidates may be judged by the applicant for review. In addition to this, the bill discusses how to maintain farm-seat housing. It was noted that the arrangement was not suitable for all housing partners, especially for smaller partners. To make it easier for partners to arrange the arrangement according to their circumstances, the Committee suggests that a second course of maintenance can be measured in the approved setting. Next, we come to the prenuptial program discussed in a committee program. The bill suggests that housing partners will be forbidden to take on an obligation to buy a home estate. The report on the bill suggests that experience has shown that such purchases may be very burdensome to them, especially when market conditions are difficult, and many home-tiers are asked at the same time that the company buys from them a farm. Despite the ban on buying, communities will continue to be allowed to buy agricultural rights, as they do with their resources at any given time. The ban on the committee was discussed. It was noted that there may be some benefits in the purchase, especially in smaller areas where it might take a long time to obtain the prices for a living. Farming partnerships could pay the bills of people living in such areas by giving them certain guarantees that they can sell it again later. Nevertheless, the Commission feels that it is proper to ban purchase restrictions to limit housing partnerships and does not create unrealistic expectations among farm- union workers that they can always sell their homes properly, regardless of their market situation. The committee noted that using the bill, it is trying to reduce the damage of farm-seat-engineering facilities because the facility does not sell by allowing it to provide them with a temporary homemaking facility or to give up their residence rights to a housing company. The Commission also points out that despite the ban, housing partners can determine when they will seek to buy a home state, provided they have an amount of resources to do so, and thus show their follow-up policies in those areas. Next, the chapter that the committee discussed in its work was very complex, and I want to thank you for it. Members of the welfare committee for the great things laid down in this chapter in order to work out the requirements set out there. It was hard for the committee to learn that the home rights fell off during the forced sale of an apartment. This would be a lack of home safety. Thus, they may lose an apartment because of the financial problems of housing society, even though they themselves have paid all dues for it. It was noted that a domestic contract would be called a Synod as a basis for an apartment. Therefore, the store owner of an forced sale should be aware of the premium and paid the expected price that would take it into account. Hence, it was wondered if the home could not remain in some form, despite the forced sale of an apartment. Other viewpoints, though, are against maintaining the right of a home, despite the forced sale of an apartment. This would make it difficult to buy farmbourn sprays and thus add to the expense of housing partners more expensive. The increased cost would inevitably be reduced by the costs that housing partners could offer to farm oceans. The arrangement thus counteracts the basic purpose of housing partners to provide residents with a camp for modest living expenses. Furthermore, if the owner of a store was a home-seat company, it would be ill if the arrangement for housing partners was to be taken care of. However, the Commission feels that it is necessary to deal with the inequities involved in the fact that certain home-seat-age seaholders fail to improve their housing rights because of the forced sale of their farm-seading equipment while other farm-seat-age conditions maintain their rightful rights. So she suggests that because of the forced sale of farms, housing should be paid to the home-seat-seat-seat-seat-seat-seat-seat-seat-separation company, which takes into account the value of home-seat-house estate. However, it should be noted that if an apartment is placed in an forced sale, it is likely that a housing partnership will be in session. At the expense of a social union, the head of the estate might gain an unusual amount of money, and he would immediately receive full compensation if soon thereafter he needed to give up his stocks for bankruptcy. So the committee suggests that the improvement will not be paid until 12 months later. In the meantime, if housing unions resort to bankruptcy, or if they need to seek emergency contracts or depositors, the requirement for reforms as other requirements for bankruptcy will be covered. The committee does not consider it too burdensome for the person to have to wait twelve months to make a payment, since he enjoys his right to remain in the appropriate apartment during that time. The Commission also suggests that the Court's right to fail at the decision of the local Court to take housing partners for bankruptcy. The committee believes that it is necessary for the switcher to care for the apartments without an appendage. She doesn't think it's a reason to measure them for improvements to the home-seat seaholders. However, the committee suggests that they have the right to remain in their apartments for up to 12 months, as in the case of forced sales. The committee suggests that a new home owner's right to remain in an apartment after her forced sale or the decision of bankruptcy was made, not to pay adequate rent, but a price that would have been paid to the estate he would not have paid for the forced sale or bankruptcy. Thus, the payment rate is just as low as the impact on his financial condition should be milder. As a result of the deportation of the forced sale of farms, as well as in bankruptcy, members of the community are taking the risk of living in a community with the purchase of agricultural rights. For one thing, the bill has specifically endeavored to ensure their access to information about the community they belong to and the possibility of impact on their activities as well as the restrictions on the amount of home planning. In order to justify the nature of home payment as a contribution to the housing of a partner, which may not be restored to the home sea, the Committee suggests that a carer is not responsible for the overall commitment of the company over the payment of a mortgage tax. Next, we will discuss the wear - off partnerships. The bill suggests that money must be forbidden from a housing partner to those in the company who are exploiting or using any form of money. Society's drift system should be used for the growth or maintenance of the society, such as the payment of loans. The decision is to ensure that the funds of housing partners will be used in behalf of their primary objective of promoting public housing. The Commission suggests a change in the bill, which includes the provision of housing partners to those who are involved in their breakups, beyond the price paid by the homey goats for their home estate. The Commission suggests that instead of being used by the post office, housing arrangements should be made for the general public in the area of a housing community or in acceptable charities or charity. The committee, on the other hand, feels that the financial resources of housing partners continue to contribute to public housing. Madam President. The latter part of this talk is beginning to pass, but we are now getting to a chapter about the departure of repeated laws. It says that laws on partnerships, No. 22/1991, the value of housing partnerships as we can apply, as suggested by the bill and the committee visit here. Nevertheless, the bill assumes that various laws on partnerships will be established by the law on housing partnerships. It is also assumed that there are several laws on the annual accounts, No. 3/2006, will be recorded in the housing law. Therefore, there is evidence that a person could be more able to appreciate the rules of housing partnerships by reading a law on housing partnerships alone and less familiar with the contents of other law columns. It is important that the laws on housing partners are accessible. However, in view of the Commission's opinion, there is a tendency to interfere with legislation to repeat part of the rules for partnerships and to set annual accounts in the law on housing partnerships, particularly in view of the fact that the laws on partnerships and annual accounts apply to housing partnerships and that are still not applicable to housing partnerships. The Commission therefore proposes the expulsion of some of the rules of the bill that have to do with things that laws on partners or annual accounts already require. The Commission also suggests a few adjustments in order to minimise bilocations in housing communities. These changes are in Article 3. The bill on socialisation and registration, Article 4. The bill on approved, Section 6. The bill on government, management and executives, Article 9. The bill for the home-seat institution, 1 0 par. The bill on home payment, 16. The bill on the maintenance fund and finally 25. The bill of annual accounts, review, monitoring and termination. The changes I listed above are about to end these decisions and explain for yourself in the section on the elimination of repeated laws in the committee opinion, i.e. Tue. 999, 370th case. Other proposals laid out in this committee section are that the committee suggests a purpose rather than goals and activities at 2 paragraphs 4. the bill and the removal of the 3rd will be the same articles on the founding of a social group in view of the government taxpayer's comments to the bill. It is suggested that the reference be added to a social gathering of the 2nd issue, Article 7. The bill. This law also applies to the mother and daughter mate of the Society employed by an accountant. The committee suggests the rendering of paragraph 4. Section 8. the bill will be made more firmly by the words, for instead of the words, it can be moved to a position where it will be unattracted, not to see that the transfer of the court is dependent on conditions other than the ones specified in the law. From the bill it can be assumed that only members of a housing partner are expected to buy farms. The committee suggests a change of 1 mg. Section 8. Act of housing partnerships that aim to clearly establish this rule in the law. The committee suggests a change of 1 mg. c-arms 19 g. The bill, which accounts for the loss of farm conditions at the time of the death of the home state seaholders, to stipulate a complete nest according to genetic code. Other forms of change explain themselves. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the proposed adjustment to a special Senate document, which can be found on a piece of paper. (For fully formatted text, see publication) No. 370. These are 17 changes, many of which are in several joints. These include the purchase of agricultural rights, annual accounts, and the reporting of the Member States. Under this heading, write why. Lára Arnardóttir, executive director of the case, Sigríður Ingadóttir, Director of the Homvensk, Friðriksson Myðsson, Kjerúlf Unnur Brá, Páll Konráðsdóttir, Sigfússon Sigfufugógursson, and Sigólá Konásdótir. At the end, I want to give you thanks for what. Councilmen on welfare committee. There was a lot of work on this bill. There were various things that we on the committee needed to consider and resolve. How satisfying it is to have a solidarity committee of this important matter come together, and this hopefully will lead us to see the building of these associates in the near future! The aim of the law was to strengthen and clarify the rightness of housing partners and their members, but history has shown us that there is a need for law change and there is a need for members within these communities to have more transparent, to have more to say things than before, to make decisions than only those in the administrations and those who live in the community are more concerned about how and what decisions are made. It is very positive to see that the position of the housing partners should be introduced to members of the community, so that the situation is not observed and you have heard of people buying farms and moving into a housing partnership, and you have not had an idea that the Society has stood in palaces until too late, after it has paid a fee to a severely housed company. What a joy it is to see that there is supposed to be transparency in the process from start to finish and that a book or meeting will be opened to members! I would like to thank the Committee's work on this housing matter and look forward to the cooperation at what time. the welfare committee on the facilities that are now waiting for further work and look forward to being able to transport them here in the conference hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u52	V.E.G. President. The director of the case, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, has done a very thorough review of the committee's opinion, and I haven't much to add. I'm going to continue thanking you here, take over where she's been gone. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter for her work on this. She has carried the heat and burden of the facilities on the committee and has taken great care of them along with a member of the commission, who has done a great job, although he is not responsible for the results of the cases, so do members of Congress. Then I'd also like to say that working on these matters on the committee is a great pleasure. In this regard, members of Parliament make every effort, especially for members of the smaller section, who take full responsibility for matters and work in solution ways to make these bills legal. As mentioned in the introduction to the speaker's speech, this is in many respects a technical bill, but it is also an explanation of the legal status of farmholders and making adjustments in order to facilitate the funding of farming partners at the most favorable terms. We are also learning from history, but there is no need to hide that certain housing communities were badly affected by the real estate environment, which was in the leading of the collapse and then the collapse itself. It is a supplementary package of information to the home stateholders as well as the information that needs to be available on the part of the housing partnership for the home- safe havens. Regarding the business arrangement, we noted that it was being taken away, and it was noted that in particular in smaller areas this law might be of great importance to getting people into the company. The committee reviewed this thoroughly, and the conclusion was to forbid, as defined in the bill, a state of premeditation, and we do not feel it right to create unrealistic expectations among the home stateholders for ever being able to sell farms safely, regardless of the market situation. We also agree that if a company has a T-shirt to that end they can buy home-seat rights and determine how they have their policies on these topics in their approvals. On the contrary, if you don't sell them, you'll have to give them a message. Here's a set of keys. If people are unable to sell their farm condition but need to get away, they can return the property and break free from the commitments that come with the agreement on it. Then there's the thing I expect to do. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask, which I see on the rosary, has a talk about, but it's a broken housing community. He had the practical suggestions that came in here, and he is important in strengthening the fact that these are partners without profit that are to be used for the development of housing conditions in the country. But I'm going to talk only about the forced sale of an apartment. That law contained something in the committees. We believed that if you had accepted the bill, it would be too much inconsistencies to allow for the pleasure of home havens if you have been exposed to the sale of your apartments, even if they have always paid off their commitments. In fact, though, there is little chance that this law will be tested, but it is considered important to keep it inside, and the committee worked hard to maintain equality as much as possible. So that if they are to be sold in an expedient home, they will have authority to stay there for 12 months after that time. According to the bill, they were to pay market rent on the decision of the county, but we change it so that they pay the same price as they had paid under the same circumstances. It will be considered in advance of what they paid for an forced sale, but it would be permitted for a new owner to accept an insurance fee because of the possible damage to the housing. Then we also suggest that Swedish legislatures make it normal for the home state to be replaced by the estate he loses, of course, so that when communities are in a position to sell an forced sale out of them, their financial situation is very poor. It can then be assumed that the budget will be in a very poor position to cover compensation. So we say that after 12 months, the right of the estate owner, who lost the apartment on a forced sale for improvement. It's been shown whether the union will survive these financial difficulties, and if the union is viable, it's due to pay the farm conditions. But if the company has been in so much trouble that it's taken over bankruptcy, it's going to go through the ex-creature requirement, like other requirements for swelling. It is not a great pleasure to create such a law, but I must say, it was a great relief to find that way. I think it's acceptable and it's very important to facilitate the funding of housing partners, because if there's a duty to living rights to stay in spite of forced sale, it's only to say that creditors view them as anything other than a pledge of property over which they have full authority, they will come to their aid. I just wanted to come up and figure out that we have found a way that will be appreciated, secure rights to farmholders and equalities as much as possible, but if we don't threaten the potential for the economic funding of our comrades, which, of course, are crucial to the establishment of human funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u53	Madam President. I am not going to ruin my joy and go beyond the beautiful words about the fine cooperation of the welfare committee on this matter. It is a joy to see that, after a considerable effort, the committee did their best to review the material comments that we received and the viewpoints presented by visitors. Here is a very important law of law, and hopefully its translation will increase rather than that of the future. The person standing here has been hoping, at least for a long time, that housing partnerships and housing plans could become an increasing part of the land's housing area, simply because I believe that this is a way for people to get together and work together that the solutions of their housing could be based on securing their home estate without trying to own a flat apartment as a whole is a very good intermediary and should not be suitable for many who may be excited to go their own lifetime or at a certain length of time, nor do the prospects of being a traditional tenet. This is a form where it's exactly what it is. By means of moderate housing tax paid by men, they provide housing and housing, and they benefit from the mutual benefit of doing so in cooperation with others, who, of course, should be able to provide more favorable housing and less costs at the end of the day. I have no comment to the explanations presented in the introduction and in the final talk. There are some things that I would like to stop only, mainly in order to support just a few reasons why the Commission's conclusions were made in a few cases when the change comes from the bill. First of all, the home payment, its peak, its buying, and its sale. The bill makes some rules for housing partners to determine the amount of home payment. There are many concerns and reasons for doing so. Yet, a stylus is struck. In fact, he is quite high on the load, so to speak, i.e. that more than one third of the market price of the farm should be paid. It can be said that the whole risk of living conditions is limited to this, for it is clear that in itself it is not responsible for the commitment of housing partnerships beyond what he angers in his homemaking rights. But there are other factors here that matter. This is the way you prepare otherwise for the treatment of your farm conditions and what it will be like to sell it or to sell it in the event of such problems. It should then be noted that all items involved in the treatment of the estate and that its sale should be established in the approved organisation. This is made clear in the 20th chapter. that if they want to finish their new home contract, it's the home conditions manager who informs housing partners that he wishes to sell his home estate. Then it is accepted by the company that measures how it should be done. Second, the Commission takes a firm stand for what we now believe is the correct understanding of the bill as it is but to take it away from the doubt, that the hall is confined to the members of our housing society. In the 8th argument, the adjustment is made at 9 g. The bill, is suggested at 8:00 a.m. The law says, "Acquiesce shop," says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Only local authorities can buy the home safe for further instructions in the approved housing community. This is to be taken away from any doubt or doubt about the lack of any kind of market location on the estate. It is not like any other quality that humans have for free sale on a commercial market. He is bound to sales for the remaining members and continue in the company. Since it is carried out by the approved Society, it is at the beginning of the procedure and a roof. There is room for an incident to determine how the prices should be conducted, such as each of the maximum prices, and then there is a series of members that can control it if more are offered than they can get. Second, I agree with what has been said about the information. It has a key feature on the bill, and the committee suggests that better repairs are made, i.e. that there is more to this than the other duties of the partners to inform and provide information on the social status in general when it comes to prospective homeer seaholders and including how the estate is founded, i.e. what is the basis for the monthly price paid by men after they made their home payment. The decision was to stick to it, as has already been shown, that non-employable contracts are not permitted in approved housing partners. Of course, giving experience is not easy. That was a lot of talk. There is reason to appreciate only both viewpoints that certainly existed. In itself, there may not have been any direct struggle for the possibility that a clean contract could remain a part of the company's activities or their approval, since this would have a significant impact on their activities, and it would likely mean that they would have to have a special financial status or to ensure that in some way they would always have tables for food and management. The Bible contains basic dangers, as it can be seen. This does not change the fact that some sort of in-use policy, about the in-use-insertation policies, in housing partnerships, may be a force for members to choose this form. Having a balanced view of these matters if their circumstances change, moving away, or something else comes up, and they can have a reasonable hope of getting their home estate at least to some extent and not having to write it down under such circumstances, can be an incentive. Therefore, I feel that it is very important and right to keep it in place that, while the purchase is forbidden, this does not change the fact that housing partners can maintain their approved policies in order to try to cash their home properly if desired, of course, with reasonable grounds that their financial resources and circumstances allow. As noted above, this, of course, is much more likely to be of value and impact on areas where real estate markets are not strong and, as a result, you may be afraid that there may not be someone to distribute to take over their farm rights if they have to give it up. I think the committee, despite all efforts to settle this matter as effectively as possible and in this way specifically indicated that housing partners can continue in their approved policy, presenting it to their members and prospective householders, and the law will not prevent the indiscriminate responsibilities such as such. This has been a major review of the changes made by the Committee regarding the treatment of farm property if individual apartments or parts of the apartment owned by housing partnerships were sold under forced sale. It is, of course, that the Society as a whole would not be overwhelmed by such things but would have certain possessions that would pass that way, rather unlikely to be considered entirely in that regard. It cannot be excluded that some individual building address that would have proved to be a housing associate of animals could run out of pawns or debt that would rest on him, but all of which would not go down there. It is obvious, then, that in some reasonable way, an attempt must be made to look to the interests of the home - havens that may come to an end without any cause for such activity. This may be the qualifications of farm conditions, which have always paid their dues and received their dues, but these conditions still exist. This has been explained how the committee tries to meet these views by creating a particular period that would actually be the period of experience that would determine whether the community would survive their difficulties and then be in a position to improve in a natural and grammatic way, which would have resulted in the loss of it because of forced sales. In terms of the arrangement for dealing with broken housing partners, the Commission makes the change to be taken into account in a very direct way. 3 mg. 7. The bill, and the existing law I'm thinking, clearly states that it is forbidden to pay money from a host of housing to those who are in the company's interest as profit or in any form of profit. In other words, these are societies that are not profitless in the sense that some of their caregivers can directly pay off that money. Their interests lie for the purpose of their society and their services in the interests of housing. Hence, we would agree that in a similar way it is clearly stated how housing partners would be removed, the ampoule of activity would be dissolved, and that they had more possessions than they had to pay for all their commitments, and that they would settle with the farm - unioning unions that lived in that facility. This refers to the relative value that could remain in a housing partner when it had made up all its commitments and all the loans on the home, or what it might be, and, as its materials allowed to fix up with the farm conditions. It is recommended how it should be done, with the original mortgage tax updated to the price. The value then to be left, which, in that sense, was pure personal funds in a homemate, should be addressed to housings in the community territory or to established charities or charity. It's being shot into section four. the bill for what should be included in an approved housing partner. It reads the 29th: If broken without bankruptcy, the penalty for property is the result. But there is no further comment on the purpose of that arrangement. Thus, according to the Commission's proposal, after the word "Counsels" is added: a housing arrangement for the general public in their territory or in acceptable charity or charity. This recommendation is further covered in an appropriate location in the changing legislation on the wear and tear of enterprises, in the 28th paragraph. This too makes me feel that it is a good change in that way, so that, of course, it emphasizes the nature of these associates. From the beginning, she says that there can never be any temptation in the matter of slowly building up valuables in such a group that may have worked for a long time but without any new investors. Then there is no small group of people left with any hope of personal gain, and especially that they should be on the side of a house - to - house partnership, as this would in itself be in opposition to its purpose. It is likely unlikely that this will ever be a test, but it is all very safe. It is good to highlight the nature and spirit of these legislations on housing communities in this way. A respectable president. I think this was the only point I wanted to establish in particular the changes on the part of the Committee in many cases the efforts to meet the objective views that we encountered in the committee work were made in reviews or those of our guests. In other words, we have tried in situations where we feel that it is wise and complex to respond to such views without saying that we are making major changes on the bill. It's not, because it's in itself a pretty good job. There's only one more thing I want to say. It's about the maintenance arrangements for housing partners. They were told that in the case of my housing partner, where small units could be involved in farm society, it would be a reason to ensure that there were no unnecessary limits to the ability of men to work on maintenance projects or other factors on a complete basis, perhaps in such cases the motherhood could maintain and to some extent cover the duties of individual farmmates on those materials. It is the maintenance of partnerships in individual habitats and other activities. The committee emphasizes that this can be done by changes in its approved terms or by completing it in their agreements. True, it is opened in 16. the bill, where it is recommended on an individual basis, what a housing partnership should care for, what the head of the home is to do, which should be maintained within his own apartment, and then what to do with the property. C- team 16. says: The agreement on a change in maintenance is considered acceptable, but is found in 3,◯6. mg, in a home or service contract as agreed by 2 mgr. Twenty-six. if such anomalies are clearly identified in the contract. So it is permitted to negotiate other such systems, but we feel that it is appropriate to add that there are other sources of maintenance in the approved housing society. So it could lie before the beginning, before the home-seat sea enters a farm society, that in that case, e.g. in the mother's society's approval that they care for the common maintenance, hopefully doing so in a less inexpensive way than they were in the power of their size. In this way, as in many other places, it is also being tried to have the flexibility sufficient for individual housing partners to resolve matters as the circumstances provide the best. Of course, there are significant differences, and in the future there may be an even greater difference between large, well - established housing partners, such as Bustura, New York, or Bustea, in northern countries, and possibly small housing communities that may grow up in many lands in the coming years. It is important that the lawgiver try to reflect that reality and have a built - in flexibility to meet it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u54	A respectable president. I want to come up and agree with them why. People who have spoken before me and are happy that this bill has finally come to the fore and to the 2nd. I'd like to read, with President's permission, from the bill itself, which is the main objective: The objective of this bill is to make it easier for housing partners to work in Iceland according to the government's objective that citizens enjoy housing security in accordance with individual needs and, as with actual choice of farm shapes, so that individuals can, in a greater way, choose between rent, property, and homewaters. The bill also aims to increase the protection of home conditions and to further explain their legal status, other members, and housing partners themselves. Furthermore, the bill is aimed at promoting the sustainable operation of such partners at the same time as they are endeavoring to improve their multiplicity by assigning them their own authority on a number of factors that may affect their business in their approved activities rather than to deal with them in a precise legal way. To be honest, these goals have been achieved. Lára bill Arnardóttir, as was shown in the talk of Elsa. There were changes that were called upon to our most prominent people in bankruptcy, the forced sales, which were truly enjoyable to listen to and see how they met them. It's the same with the broken but the rough. paritaprevir J. Sigfusson's Sigfússon offered a very helpful suggestion. I also want to agree with them and to thank the welfare committee for well-worked jobs, especially the leading authority of the case, why. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, who has almost the nation's housing business and does a great job in it and deserves all credit and is her hard work to do, I'll tell you. As I would like to state that other members of the council who are older than 20 years of age have shown understanding, understanding, and training, such as the one involved in this bill, to us the new senators. As mentioned in the case of an executive, this is only the first bill of four of the housing issues discussed on a welfare committee and can be said to put the first tire under the car. I agree with what. An executive foreman that we have a mission to go on. I hope it works out well. It's a good walk, and I'm looking forward to it work like a dog. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u55	V.E.G. President. I couldn't help but come up after a beautiful word. The senators to me because of the work we're finishing this time. Thank you. Councilmen and members of the committees why. well - being committees who have considered the most important work done in the processing of the bill and the review of the committee that we are completing the discussion. This is very joyful. I want to say something. paritaprevir The above: Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son shows the importance of having real choices and also under the word. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's son, on the importance of having a real choice of housing market for families and homes in the country. Like what? paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson came into his speech, and we are now completing one of the four major capitals. The social and housing minister and three of them deal with the public rent and social resources of the rented market and it is important that they be prepared. As mentioned in the preceding articles, it is important that we have a choice of farm shapes. Here we are making more sure of the position of a housing partner, an intermediate between rent and property. People buy their farm condition and can live with a secure tenant environment and are not responsible for the overall commitment of their union. The bills we're working on right now. A well - being committee is about to develop general apartments for smaller tenants, large-sized housing improvements, and rent repairs. The words that have fallen here to me give me the strength to continue the much work we are in right now, such as to write a committee opinion about general apartments and finish the two waiting ones. This gives me the strength to keep going and to finish things, and I thank you for your good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u56	A respectable president. I'm here to recommend a committee party with a change in proposal. The committee discussed the matter after 2nd. During this discussion, a perspective on the need for a fixed time frame on the activities of a community set up to care for the management, full and selling of possessions, which are part of the stability of the bereaved financial companies. For example, a discussion of the case in the Committee stated that the Ministry estimates 80% of the value reached by the Society within 18 months. It was also noted that the Ministry Convention for the Planned Society is based on the fact that the contract goes into force on December 31, 2018. It is difficult to determine exactly when the company's work will be fully completed, but it can be expected that when the remaining valuables will be reduced or that they will no longer justify the continuation of a special society's activities, they will be reduced. At the same time, it can be noted that the partner needs sufficient time to obtain valuables in line with the goal of the bill. The secretary will quarterly explain the economic and business committee and budgets to progress in the processing of the property and the planned end of the project. So the majority adds an additional change to the bill, which includes the completion of the Society's work and dissociation by 31st December 2018. Brigs Níelsson, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, and Poor Anna Sævarsdóttir, were absent from the case, but considered, and adjusted by the motion, Frosti Sigurjónsson, president and spokesman, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Katrín of Jakobsdóttir Jacobs, Sigirur On. Andersen and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-16-89.u57	A respectable president. I'd like to explain to the Commission's proposal for the resolution of the Protocol on the membership of the Guatemala Republic of Guatemala to a free trade deal between the EFTA and the Central States. It's from the Foreign Affairs Committee and it's as follows: The committee has discussed the matter and has contacted its representatives from the State Department. The proposal consults the Allegorical Protocol on the Member States of Guatemala for a free trade deal between EFTA and Central America, signed on June 22, 2015, in Schaan, Liechtenstein. At the 143th legislature, the government was authorized by General No. 28/143 validate the EFTA and the Costa Rica Democratic Republic and the Panama Republic. Comments from the available proposals indicate that the discussion with Guatemala has not been completed at the same time as they continued. They ended in October 2014 and were assigned to Guatemala to the Free Trade Convention agreed by a joint committee in June 2015. Commenting on the proposal, Guatemala's membership points out that the holiday contracts greatly improved the availability of Icelandic exporters to markets in Guatemala, where customs of all sea products and the vast majority of industrial products fall. However, tollification is partially distributed over a period of up to 15 years. This will result in a loss of toll on the export of various agricultural products from Iceland, e.g. on lamb, live horses, and horse flesh, as well as tolls drop or decline from various other occupations and from unscrupulous agricultural products. On the part of Iceland, customs from all sea products and industrial products are dropped immediately and tolls are also reduced or dropped by various agricultural products. The trade of Iceland and Guatemala has been negligible so far, but with the decline and detoxification of customs, there is greater opportunities for business and access to Guatemala for Icelandic immigrants to get better. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Hv. paritaprevir Elín Hirst was absent from the case. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson was absent from the case, but literature is considered as a 4 mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. I'd like to, in turn, allow myself to mention after my conversation with a respected president. Hirst In Elín, it is also accompanied by the release of this case, but it did not have time to bring it into the opinion of the committee. This figure is published in the General Assembly of March 3, 2016. Under it, you write down. Senators Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, chairman of the case, Karl Garðarsson, Frosti Sigri Sigurjónsson, Óttarr Proppé, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir Björnótir. A respectable president. I've made a report on the validation of the Book on the involvement of the Democratic Republic of Guatemala to a free trade deal between EFTA and Central America. I hope this is a good thing done and will be done to both parties, the EFTA and the Guatemala Republic for the advantage. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
