ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u1	A meeting arrangement will be provided for the discussion, and it will last for four hours. After the discussion, a vote is held. The proposal was given yesterday afternoon, and the president considers it acceptable to accept the proposal for this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u2	A respectable president. I'm here to recommend a lack of confidence in the government of Sigurður won son of Jóhannsson. It is unusual for a government to be mistrusted on her first day and perhaps on her own day, but we are living in a unique time. Our lack of trust is based on the serious problems that have come up in politics, and we are all known. Societys exist only in order to hide property or to avoid taxation. As to that, the government tax manager and all experts agree. And the head of the Association for Business Science specifically agreed, in a timely condemnation of taxes, at yesterday's annual conference. If they keep money in the tax pool, they're taking money from work here on the land and getting out of the necessary transparency. That money does not create them here for work and value and does not depend on basic welfare projects, such as the construction of the Land Hospital. We have, in the wake of the collapse, specifically requested that those who have possessions in foreign lands bring them home to support the restoration of Iceland. Because of all of this, there is an unforgivable, unforgivable political involvement in the tax business. Therefore, the administration of the government today is unacceptable. The nation was shocked when they saw Castlight Show last Sunday. It was no ordinary shock. I think we've all experienced grief in a way that hasn't occurred since collapse. Our shame was almost tangible. Their feelings grew much stronger because Iceland and the Icelandic advisors were covered internationally, according to the same criteria as foreign rulers. The media was supported by cooperation with foreign media, and this cooperation increased the credibility of the news transfer to us. The government radio, which has struggled with the ongoing persecution of the government throughout this election period, was defamed. Panama documents are not a traditional Icelandic mess where critics argue about subject matter, accuse the media of persecution, interpret the facts of this direction or claim that everything else should apply to them than to all others. This time we're all on the air. There is no way to hide from the luminary of the world, no way to try to claim that other values are here than in other countries. But this feeling of sorrow and shame resulted in solidarity and hope. On Sunday evening, theater guests in the City Theater were on their feet and sang their national songs. Not to beat their breasts in a national rage, but to remind themselves that Iceland belongs to them. And this same spirit rolled across the waters of the protests here on Eastfield on Monday, with no equal in Iceland history. Not only were they more populous than cases from collapse but they were also peaceful and loving. It was not just the voters of the government. A man sensed that the nation had a cross section. The dressers of all classes, people with differing viewpoints, some with better quality, and others worse. What united all was the requirement for listening to the nation's cry for political reform and the hope that, despite everything, it would be possible to reach that reform. This reminded me of the days after a crash when strangers on the street, worried about their foreheads, went out of their way to wish all good things for the same senator. When people still had hope in politics. That hope has since vanished. At some point, which is hard to determine, people were ashamed of all politics, and under the shadow of that shame, we are still in this hall today. We have not been able to restore our faith to the people who once went out of their way to encourage and support. The way to restore that confidence must involve speaking seriously, speaking about people's real concerns, and always telling the truth. The past loss will prove to us the importance of turning in basic economic guidelines. For decades, because politicians have ensured access to limited facilities or government property, the Icelandic economy has been marked by the richness of businessmen. Under the cover of that dissension, a special kind of capitalist art has grown here, those who feed on other people's money, and more emphasis on unbridled profits in their own pockets than on the actual creation of valuable things that benefit society all. It is this species that went into the tax industry to avoid contributing according to its means. In the last few losses, the payoffs and unfashionable insurance companies at the expense of the public have shown that some have learned nothing - and unfortunately nothing has been forgotten. It's got to stop now. V.E.G. President. I planned to present a traditional debate with distrust, a government that has failed, a new version of the anti - government that is still still still unsatisfactory, as all government opposers in all times have done in such circumstances. But that's all I can do. I think times require a new routine. After our intense verbal exchange. I went home and thought. I understand the harsh words he made to me in his defense here. I understand that because I myself have been seated on this Ministerial Class and have been picked up as well. I've sat and heard thousands protest my policies and the government I was part of. I have defended myself vigorously and have been absolutely convinced that I knew best and that the way we had chosen was the one. I'm sure everyone will finally see that I was right. But I can't overlook the fact that the result of that belief was the largest political loss in Iceland. Distrust in a new government is under discussion. That's a fact. But there is the approved mistrust of the nation in Icelandic politics. No one can deny it. V.E.G. The secretary of finance told me earlier this morning that the government's in trouble too. And certainly, all of us have suffered enormous losses in politics that demean people, deny facts, glorify personal politics, and turn all the real things into threshing and discipline. All over the world, people are turning their backs on politics, which they find to be characterized by genuine apathy and personal interests. We're in the same boat. We cannot continue the political battle in that all good people overpower what they hear and see. To be of utmost benefit, we must save politics together. Why are we united here in this room? Yes, the desire to do better for an Icelandic nation. Let's grow it together. It can be done. Many people in the community have spoken for new conversations in these last days. I will do, of the political scene, to name why. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Brá Constésdóttir and the highest. former minister, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, who both contributed well for last night's interviews and offered a new route. You see, it takes a new beginning. The members of the greater part may choose to read these distrustal tools on their own. This, however, does involve a extending hand to better communication on new terms. With the government trade, you have personally acknowledged that your authority has been broken - but not gone far enough to complete the case. This is a testimony to the response of society. Let us not continue to struggle for the sake of battle. The result is inevitable if the same course continues. On the other hand, there is a conversation about solutions that can be taken forward, guaranteeing the progress of important matters, and elections as quickly as possible and can be considered responsible. A respectable president. On dark autumn days nearly eight years ago, many of us here in this hall faced the fact that Iceland's economic independence was at stake, no less or less, and that the public could expect the people to react to that situation to be totally out of control. But despite everything we say about each other every day in this hall, we succeeded. These eight years have been marked by two: a wise reaction to all that has been most divided but a hateful and destructive political debate about the rest. Governments since collapse have taken fundamental decisions that have saved Iceland. The Emergency Act, the Economic Plan for the International Price Fund, legislation on eutrophication and treaties with the demands. All political groups have come to one of these decisions, and some have come to all. All of this has brought us results that are seen worldwide. Can you imagine? While we were fighting, we managed to save Iceland's economic independence. Should we allow ourselves to dream of what we could do if we worked together?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u3	V.E.G. President. For a discussion, the proposal of government opposition is concluded by the Council to express distrust of the government. The General declares their will that a council will be breached and promoted as soon as possible to the general election. It is only natural that the government would want to replace the ruling government with its ruling authority. It's her part. But putting on a mistrust list less than 24 hours after a new government takes over is under way. [[Up front.]] I would have thought that mistrust should be based on the fact that the government did not prosper in its purpose, for governments are elected to perform certain tasks. I reviewed it in a fairly thorough discussion at the council this morning, which work the last government has done. The present government intends to continue its course and resolve a matter of importance. Of course, the highest level of execution is in this country. Before we go any further, I would like to ask for the government's opposition not to leave its mark to allow it to pass through the council. This unique issue is vast, and its solution will have a long - term effect on the future. Much agitation in the political field could undermine the necessary work. Although it's only possible for me to make an election, I really don't feel responsible for the government's opposition to offer it up. An agreement on violation of Congress would lead to election success within 45 days. For preparation, they would need at least a few weeks. So, first of all, it would be possible to vote in the middle of May or in the latter part, or at the same time, as it would be planned to maintain a fee for emissions. I don't think that there's a lot of sense in getting into a campaign at the same time as the government is still dealing with one of the most tricky solutions the nation has ever faced. In that case, the proposed election for the President of Iceland is scheduled for June. Therefore, the campaign of election elections and elections would overlap, and it can be said to be an appropriate arrangement. I'm a little surprised that the government possession would like to make that move when so much is at hand. I'm not saying in the present government there's the only people who can finish the job. However, it has to be noted that a government of the same sort began the task, and I see reasonable wisdom in allowing it to complete it in the same manner as the task has been done. It has been asked recently why this government is the most trustworthy one to complete such projects as suspension. In return, I ask, " Why should we trust the government's opposition to that assignment? ' Has she demonstrated by her words or actions that she is better equipped to fulfill this commission? I'm not sure you are. In this process, the government has criticized most of what has been done, but it has seldom provided solutions. The approach to the government has always been that it did not believe in the method. But the government's methods and plans for decommissioning a capital crisis have, as most people have now realized, yielded results without precedent in the world's financial history, to quote Buchheit Buuchy. It is only natural for those who have achieved this success to complete the project with the same policy that has so far been tried. A respectable president. During this term, the government's policy to improve the country's interests has been altered in a labour market, maintained inflation for as long as there are no previous examples of this, disbanded product charges and customs, reduced income taxes, for example. As a result, people have grown at a higher level than ever before. These are not empty words from the General's symposium, these are facts. But the task is not finished. There are important issues to be concluded, including There is an agreement with the labour market on housing and a reduction in insurance fees to further facilitate the increase in the prosperity and well - being of the country's households by the collective agreements available and the action to follow. Of all those and other factors, we need to unite at the General Assembly. I believe that it should be slow in actually playing, because I have tried to work with people from all political parties at the council that it is the common objective of all of us in the hall to be won to improve the interests of the people of the country. So I encourage my coworkers at any category to unite in that with us in the months to come and in the work that must be stressed for that purpose. I give you my word that the government of Iceland is going to do a whole lot of work on that from now on, just as it has so far. Therefore, I strongly suggest that we make both proposals of the government today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u4	Mr. President. The European Commission today proposes that the Council pronounces mistrust in the government and the Council of the United States as an act of violation and election campaigns. The government situation is united behind the proposal and in view of the words that many have. The members of the government have dropped in recent days, and it is clear that many of them support their heart that the election is immediately being announced. They see as we all see that the new government is an old wine, not even in new bottles, but the bottles are the same as before. The suggestion is obvious. The week that nears the end has been dramatic, absurd in chapters, where the management classes'response to the biggest data leak in history has been at the center. This leak shows that Icelanders have some kind of world record when it comes to domestic property in taxes. This leak also shows, considering how many Ministers are in Western Europe, they are about 332, that the names of four of them are involved in the Panama Documents, and three of the four were ministers in the Iceland government, and two of them are still serving as ministers. As all of us know, a large purpose may be to establish societies on taxes. There are a number of factors, e.g. To avoid tax pay. Another purpose is that it lies secretly on that partner, not to be given information, and registration is very incomplete. That's why we're in control. When we got to know Iceland's executives, the pieces of Iceland they're sitting there hiding the real owners. There is no requirement that the budget renders annual bills or provide additional information on their activities, but it has been said that those who store their possessions in an African society are in effect in choosing their own tax bills in contrast to the public, since local authorities, the taxpayer, have little or no means to verify tax payments on taxes. The authorities don't monitor these partners much. I don't think there's any further word to say that in the years before a crash, some sort of deportation took place. They seem to have become as common as a foot massager in the 1980's, which may not have been strange in view of the policy of government in which the plan was to set Iceland up on the playground of international financial operations, or have we forgotten the committee that was founded in 2005 under the prefect of Sigurður Einarsson, the chairman of the Council of Copenhagen, the Committee to make Iceland an international financial center? The policy, too, was to lower taxes for selected groups, thus promoting inequities, which grew very much in the years before collapse. It was the government policy. In that atmosphere, it was only natural to start civil society under its operations. It wasn't until 2009 that the CFC rules were transferred into laws that severely squeezed the potential of leftovers to bypass the natural tax system. At that time, the entire income of the company was being counted as the income of the owner, who committed it to counting his income on his own tax returns. During the last term, the so-called information exchange agreements were also used to ensure an increased flow of information between countries on the flow of capital, which is involved in international policies, including By OECD and the Norwegian Ministers Committee. But this biggest leak of data in history, Panama's documents, has actually exposed the situation in this country, and the Icelandic public could see that the former prime minister was the only Western national leader in the group of political leaders involved with debinos. And the minister tried to hide their information until the last day. I'm sorry, Mr. President, but in this group, it's a lot of trouble. Councilmen and the highest. Most members of the administration seem to agree that this is a bit unfortunate. I have not heard many condemnants say that those in authority think it is normal to store property in taxes. On the other hand, I've heard the highest. The prime minister says that there is nothing unusual about it. The first reaction to the governmental forces was, in effect, the exposure to the media. There was no attempt to deal with the fact that the rulers of the nation were in a small group of rich Icelanders who wanted to play by other rules but who were offered the opportunity for normal Icelanders by keeping their possessions in foreign societies. The question was not asked whether it was morally defending or normal to have such communities. On the other hand, members of the council appeared to form two o'clock. Councilmen of the Parliament, almost correct in the same article where the Kingdom Radio was accused of being in a political campaign against prime minister. I haven't heard from this. After that, members of the council. Or do they think that BBC, DR, NRK, SVT, Le Monde, Südde, Süddeitsche Zeitung, The Guardian, Independent, and so on, the foreign media that have discussed the matter could be shared in this campaign as well, or only the ballrooms of State TV? [[Up front.]] You see, Mr. President, the reaction of the judges is no less serious than the case itself. They are another key element of distrust. They show that the government of Iceland thinks it's all right for elected officials and top officials to have property in their own communities in taxes and not report it. This was confirmed in an unscheduled query period yesterday. It's just unfortunate if we get away with this kid, Tumi, and the media is to blame. There is no great dignity over that reaction, Mr. President, although some members of the council are now acting, believing that this is not enough. But I rejoice those who are ready to stand up and say what is in their hearts, because I don't believe it. People in this room feel all right with this. I don't believe it. Mr. President, I don't think there's anything going on. In the collapse, the public's trust in politics collapsed. That trust has not been built up again. Events of the last days do not have the power to increase it. It is very serious for democracy in the country, and it is serious for society organizations who must stand firm in order for society to go what should be done. The government is severely damaged. By her words, she shows that she is unaware of the seriousness of the situation. V.E.G. Government ministers insist that they need space to complete their task. I still haven't heard how they're going to deal with this report, whether or not the office of the tax investigator is going to increase, whether it's time to agree to the investigation of these offenses, whether the Council should take these matters for special consideration. I haven't heard that. It's just said that the work of the government needs to be done. The present government has shown by its response that it cannot be trusted to deal with these serious issues. Its efforts to continue to weaken confidence in society's institutions that cannot possibly do so will further weaken its confidence in politics that is beyond our control and will undermine confidence in democracy. We, sitting here, are responsible for the status of the democracy in this country. We have to do something that gives the people in the country a reason to trust us in that assignment. This is a far more important task than the lives of the Government Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson. Prime Minister. This government does not have the ability to build trust in democracy in the land. That project is the most important project for all of us here. It can be said of housing and removal. All of this is an important project, but it doesn't matter much if trust has completely disappeared from the community, both in this institution as well as in other community institutions. That's the big deal. That is why we suggest that we express our lack of trust in the government and suggest that we place the power in the hands of the Icelandic public, who need an opportunity to express their opinion and renew the commission to those who want to participate in politics and sit here at the General Assembly. Consequences and elections now. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u5	A respectable president. How unusual it is for a government with a new prime minister to be faced with a mistrust plan shortly after a prime minister's decision has taken place, but everything is correct. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's Árnason of the Year that these are unusual times. I'd like to start by saying that this is the right tone, I think, in terms of how well we have managed to deal with our distrust since 2009. [[The point is, like this.]] We should also consider how much it has been accomplished to keep up with the election. I allow me to point out the extraordinary amount of renewal that has occurred here in the conference hall, in the huge increase of women - in the government is equal to the male - and - why that alone has yielded us no further than it really is. Could it be that it is how we deal with situations? Could it be that it is the way we try to promote, according to Congress regulations, a decision in matters? It may be that there are some roots in the fact that the greater part is sometimes unrecognized, i.e. His will is not accomplished because it is my purpose to stop it? I can say exactly as it is that we have used our utmost in smaller parts, independents, to prevent things we have thought were harmful. [[Up front.]] In this discussion, I have come to the conclusion, and I've talked about this before, that the rules we make are in order to establish a conclusion about differences here at the council are imperfect. [[Up front.]] As far as I'm concerned, I've seen no better way than to give the President of the Generals greater power to cut the knot. Because members of Congress have not been able to do so themselves. The fact that the rules alone will not solve the problem must also be recognized. Rather, they must here form a solid basis for respecting the changed procedure. Why am I going over these things? Because I think they have business in this discussion, and I think it's right for those who have spoken before me to come into this show. And the case that has led to a great change this week has led to the establishment of a new government the same categories as the state of which we know, protests, negative discussions about Iceland, about Icelandic politics, etc. I am referring to this in the leading leading of my coming into it, because we are in one of these discussions right now. If we agree that we have not successfully solved major differences until now, we have one major problem in our hands. Then let a person look in the mirror and ask: " What can we do to make a decision? I see people looking to me and saying: " It's simple, the one speaking now simply has to step aside. But we've listened. It is not by accident that the prime minister decides to step aside. It doesn't happen by chance that any member of the board here, with a well-rich share, will decide to shorten the term period. They're being listened to for the launch of democracy. At the same time, however, we feel that it is a national situation that this council not only goes into the sewer - all the cases are thrown into the garbage bin. All the work being done in this room has been done, all communications with all stakeholders, all the work in the management system, all the existing policy issues must be paid off. When it is done, and now they call out and say, Must it be all things? No, no, we can talk here, government and government opposition, as always appropriate about how far we should go down that list. But what is a key element of this government should not be concealed. Not so much has happened in the week between the parties that humans have entered into a new government covenant on a completely different scale. It's the same basis. It's the same policy as this. We will face the results that have yielded to the national policy and will continue on the basis of existing issues. I also allow you to mention that not all of these are not just some concern of the board members of the board in themselves. For example, we also have a case for the council that is being cooperated with the workforce. One important issue to contribute is a new national budget until the end of the five - year period. Can we start thinking for a long time? Can we do this here at the council? I think that's important. I believe it is important that this council receive a five-year financial programme and take it into account and subsidies. I realize at the same time that there will be a new national financial policy when a new government takes over and that we will review the financial programme every year, I realize that. But I still think it matters. People can have their own opinion of it. That's a fair and reasonable requirement. paritaprevir Katrin, Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, said that we speak about the matter in a material way too. I understand when they say, "You just talk about the things you've already said, but what are you going to do about it in this new case? " Let's just talk about it here. Of course, it is considered to take a special report talk, to consider these matters in a special way here at the council. But I call attention to the fact that when there was a time for the governor to purchase data that I understand to be similar to the data contained in this large leak, who had the idea that the council should examine them? Who, then, was given the idea that we should now have a meeting on a board of administrations and monitoring committee and that we should consider the evidence? No, we trust the administrative institutions to consider the matter. This too must be true of us. We must trust the agencies that have been established by the law to review this matter, whether the governor of the tax, the tax investigator, or other places in the administration, which, so not to mention, are observing the discussion and have data and will no doubt receive further evidence. Last thing I saw today was that the governor had responded and demanded that all the data be delivered. Do the council trust these institutions to do this work? Or may we not even agree on what the assignment is? I've been very honest with myself with the fact that I feel that the job is to pick up the tail of the traitors, to reach the tail of those who didn't intend to return their fair share. My business has been in the discussion. I have foretold my goal: I was never any benefit in this matter. I gave up my things. I'm transparent. I've got nothing to hide. Nothing to hide. However, there are many who used societies in order to hide or avoid taxation. We need to agree on doing all we can to gain them. So it is natural for the public to ask themselves, " Is there still so much gaps in the law that we can't cope with this phenomenon? ' Do we have no control over this phenomenon? It is to say that we have in recent years, for years, no disagreements have been about it here, making great changes. We've adopted OECD standards that provide automatic information exchange. And what's more, Iceland is one of the countries that are going to have their quick implementation of rules. There are relatively few OECD countries who intend to speed up the implementation of the rules to ensure information exchange of tax information. We have also recently signed 44 information exchange agreements with low taxes and low taxes. So if there is any evidence from the Icelandic tax authorities that everything is not reported, we have, on the basis of these 44 new agreements, the right to get more information. The CFC is also important. Those who stood by her may have whatever they want for it. The conclusion of this law is that the benefits of making the most of the use of these regions have been achieved. So these two main problems have been dealt with, on the one hand, by information exchange agreements, and by taxation, using the CC rules. We already have our main problem with treaties and legislation. That's what's going on. Do we need to keep moving? Yes, it needs to be continued. It is important to ensure that the head of the tax and those in charge of this field have capital and performance, support for international cooperation, etc.? Yeah. And we will have to use this large leak to ask ourselves questions about how much was done. To do so, we have specialists in the administration board who can respond. At the same time, I am convinced that this big issue will have an effect on further changes, to a greater degree, in preventing the problems that these societies have created in particular. The independent party will exert its full force for that purpose. I started this part of my talk by asking: " Do we agree that this is the project? There's nothing to be. But we can start discussing this part of the matter. Today, the government has to step aside, and the election needs to be announced immediately. I have reasons to believe that the administrative body has come to a different conclusion. And you know what, it's not unusual for people to disagree or to disagree. Because in the present situation, there is no solution to criticism. It's not simple to perform democracy. It has been said here every year since 2008 that we need to do what restores trust. But don't most categories have to face the fact that they've done nothing particularly well? There is no one solution above criticism. Our answer to the situation presented here is to provide explanations, answers, give information, and we want to use democracy to deal with the trust problem. I would like to come to this, at the end of my speech, that there is no dispute that democracy must be activated. There is only a disagreement as to whether it will happen in May or September or October. There's a disagreement about that. The other controversy that exists between government and government, that there is not a proper focus, etc., is just the traditional activities of the Council and has nothing to do with this leak case from Panama. Nothing. It's just standard Icelandic politics. So I'm going to finish my speech with joyful reflection on what we can do, Councilman, to respond to this position, whether we can find a member of the Parliament who can gain more confidence in the council. Most of us won't be here in 10 years. But in the meantime, there's a lot we can do. [[Up front.]] It's just an experience. Of course, the man with the greatest conference experience here in the conference room can say that there is no guarantee, for I did not say that we would all be gone. But I'm just gonna finish my case by pointing out that we're here all the time. As you stay here longer, I've been here for over a decade, you see how much it's important that you do your part to strengthen the council and improve the culture, the rules, the things that connect the council with the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u6	A respectable president. We will discuss a proposal to distrust the government, and we will be clear enough to support the bright future of the proposal. This government has a mistrust plan on the first day, which is very unusual. But it is not because of this morning's actions and not even because of the actions of the previous edition of this government that we put on a mistrust list but, in fact, because of how the government came into existence, how it came into existence. I think we have to ask ourselves, not what point the government is going to take, not to wonder about us or to argue about the achievements of the last government, I think we have to ask ourselves where we are. Why are we here with a new government? It's not a coincidence, it's not to bring back the spring that was decided to appoint a new Ministry. Moral questions are raised back on the table in Icelandic politics and Icelandic society, and this is not a coincidence. That's why, because of what happened to us in the last days, it's because of the information that came out for the weekend. The relationship the Icelandic rulers have with that information is indistinguishable. We members of the council are persecuted, not only members of the government's opposition but also members of the Generals. The people are persecuted. We find Iceland and our good people are a laughing stock all over the world. At councilmen who have stood at the Assembly Hall waiting for information or waiting to see a minister or a member of the council have been fully held captive to talk to foreign mediamen who ask us what is really going on, what could happen next. Under these circumstances, the head of the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, and the head of the Action Party, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, concluded that the best response to the situation is to bring up a new version of the same government, and then come up and repeat the promise of reducing the insurance fee. No one will think of apologizing or trying to accept responsibility for the previous steps. It's sort of incomprehensible, respectable President. This morning's speech said the highest. The prime minister that economic issues in a broad sense were the focus of a new government. But what about morality? I can't hear thousands of people in the East demand more money. As far as I can tell, there's a call for reform. Surely, let us all take it to heart, but were we all the people who were printed on lists of people who had money in international taxes for the last weekend? No, I'm sorry. I find it very interesting to realize that a new government claiming to represent a national situation in order to settle the situation in the Icelandic soul should not even think humbly to apologize for what has happened. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] That these two classes are the only groups that can be involved, in view of history, are, in effect, supposed to be semi-donent. Furthermore, ask yourself, " What has been the work of this government been during the past few months? ' There's hardly been any issues in the council. We've been unable to talk about the EEA yearday case because there's nothing from the government, but it seems these classes don't agree on anything or anything except the need for them to remain in power, because they have 38 members behind them. I'd like to remind you that there are 63 members of the General Assembly of the Icelanders. It takes a simple majority of them to accept a case. There are so many cases, including, approximately every step in decommission, that have been approved by the greater part of the Generalis in broad agreement over government and government opposition. I'm sorry, but I don't give much excuse for the need for these groups to remain in control. I am happy that a new government suggests that elections will be quick, but unfortunately I experienced before the elections 2013 that the same categories promised the elections of continuity or stop the activities of EU Member States. It was betrayed by groupings right after the election. I ask myself, " Why trust groupings now? ' At least it's an attempt to tell me. Our lack of trust in the government is because of its origin, because of the arrogance that is behind the conduct of the government in this way. To expect a deal to be negotiated in a Icelandic community in a state of government and government opposition in the back rooms and ladders of this house is like being proud of an Icelandic nation that I don't know what to say. The vote for elections is not immediately due to a person's wanting so much to support the government. V.E.G. Secretary of finance asked if we were to remain here as individuals in ten years, not that it was of any importance. But I ask myself, " Will we be here in ten days? ' A respectable president. I support distrust in this government. Guð bless Iceland and all that, but Troll takes this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u7	President. There was a very clear requirement in the community the week before the Castey Show was shown to initiate a lack of confidence in the then state, which I actually remind me of being exactly the same as it is today, this government is exactly the same as it was here yesterday. All that has changed is that Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson has become mad. A senator instead of being the highest. Minister. In fact, instead of coming here and giving a Sigmundur Davíð to make a truly clear distinction between these two governments, he said that Gunnlaugsson is still the head of the advance party, just looking forward to taking a vacation, on the salary of the council. I feel that the reaction of the late Prime Minister to the great news and the storms that came across Iceland in connection with the Panama papers has brought us shame. And that not one man came up in a pit yesterday or today to apologize, not to us senators, but to the nation that no one said, I'm sorry. We made a mistake; I find such an act so characteristic of the government we have today, very characteristic. Let us consider just a few things from the most unreaching government of all time, which has been very much discussed in Icelandic society. I also want to take this opportunity to thank the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Gunnar Sveinsson Svensson, for helping The Piranha actually exist. It was already the highest. A letter was sent to Brussels, where a certain assembly and nation were consulted by a minister. I want to use this opportunity to thank the Minister for it. But I don't want to thank the Minister for the inadequacy the Minister did by shunning the council and the natural process to be considered. I don't want to thank the Minister for betraying his voters by not making a national bill of ongoing negotiations. I also want to remind you that we have not yet a solution to the so - called natural passes. We have no solution to the environment and to the growing stream of tourists to this land, and we see in the event of an emergency. Since then, I've read in the media that there's a possibility that there's an even greater flow of tourists over the news on what Iceland is strange. People may think that they need to examine the Icelanders in particular, based on their appeal and tax appeals. But it is natural to realize that the tax business is very much in the spirit of the insanity that characterized the financial system in the process of the collapse. Considering what you see, it's clear that there was no man with men except to have money as a tax collector. It was something the banks pushed on people as the very way to be a man, yes, or something for the benefit of others if you have your money on a tax bill. The debate is a little strange that it's just fine, like you've heard of it. Prime Minister says. It's all right to have money under tax control as long as it's legal or that you pay taxes. However, it cannot be confirmed whether to pay taxes because there is a reason why people take their money to a tax place and they would not be used with those who are the most money-rich in the country, except for one purpose. The fact is that we are sitting here with a tax secretary who was president of the General Committee with property in the tax industry, who did not know what happened to them 40 million, where they were actually stored. In some way, it is not possible to have credibility toward the Ministry of Economics and to be decommissioned with such a minister, no matter how legal he has done everything, it is just that the world around us views this as immoral conduct. It is long time for us to maintain the requirement of honor that came after the collapse that we would abandon this narrow set of laws and take a look at laws and live by spirit laws, not how to use legal techniques to avoid being an honorable person in an upright society. That was so clear at the National Meeting. It was so clear how the public wanted to see themselves after the collapse. What was said most about reflecting the nation's particular resurrection from a tragic period was the motto: honesty, transparency, responsibility. Are we seeing this government respond in some way? No. That was not found in the talks I heard earlier today when the government was introducing itself. Of course, in the light of history it is strange to place confidence in a brand - new government. But this is not a new government. This is exactly the same government as the first one, except with only one head under exactly the same Chairman. I'd like to say, however, that I've worked very well with Ingi Jóhannsson on committees at the council while we were both members of the council, and this is a good man. There's a lot of good people in the World Congress. But that's not what it's all about. It's about our work. It's about the new Iceland thing and where is it? New Iceland isn't here to be seen with this government. Let's think about some more ministers. Let us review the case of the former minister, Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter. Let's go back to the highest court. Secretary of education, former or replacement of the highest. Prime Minister, and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance. But let us review the most important issue that the government has been in much trouble. The government has not been able to agree on the removal of insurance, as promised. She has not been able to agree to complete the basics involved in a meeting on housing matters. I'd like to see the government, if she was going to work in the shelter of my part, things would come through. I want them to hear and be confirmed that they should pass through without one of the government groups changing their feet for the other, as everyone knows has been here at the council. I'm calling for humility. It would be very easy for us in our memory to come back and support the great work that must be completed during the council, whether it is under your position or by any other Presidency. But show them a little humility. Apologize with the people. I haven't felt humility in the past few days. On the contrary, I've felt and felt threats and disrespected the authorities here. That is not very encouraging. I have to say, while people are so offended and so shocked at what they've been offered, we can't continue to work in here as if nothing has happened. It is essential that the members of Parliament whom I have heard complain about the present government order and that they themselves have been offended - I was here on the day these things were coming to the surface and saw how the senators felt. It is very important that the members of the council who have felt badly about what has been going on either the distrust or the ability to work together work together. I want a date, too. It's just that I can't trust some hairy promises that are wrapped up in threats to cancel if we don't do everything the government wants. It's just not available. Listen to the public. Apologize.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u8	Icelanders. We have a basic question about Iceland's state of the world. Do we want to be a Western democracy, or do we want to be among the most corrupt countries in the world, Russia, Ukraine, and the United Arab Emirates? When corruption is eliminated, there will be no halfheartedness. They need to give clear answers. It is not enough to let one stop for a while, but the other one stays. There's no way to vote soon. You have to vote as soon as you have to resign, so that the message is clear. True, the response that has come to be better than Russia, but it is not enough to be better than Russia. It's about what kind of community we want to live in. Do we want to live in a community where people get rich in politics and corruption or in a business community where people get caught on a free market? Unfortunately, the privileged class in Iceland has become a major contributor to political payment, free access to common resources, and the obtaining of small government companies through political payments in closed systems. This privileged class has defamed this false price of fish and fragrants and has placed her money here on an African island. She took her wealth just before a crash and moved away because she had better information than the common people who sat fried. She did not see fit to bring her money home when the country needed it most. This requires that the voters of the country be allowed to settle, and with the hidden ones that have been involved. It's up to all of us to protect ourselves from what we put after the collapse, to say war against the poisonous chef who is a secret, money, and politics, and to follow the respect of interest registration, but to give full political responsibility. Voters need to state clearly and conclusively in elections that in Iceland it is the human race that creates the value, not the privileged classes, that there is a price here to control human progress, and here people are to be made in free trades at an open market, not in the back rooms of the Board of Directors. A respectable president. I encourage members of the board to give this much thought when they decide on the proposal they are going to make. I think here are the waters of the old time and new times, those who want to make strong political and moral demands, that we are now a Western democracy, and those who feel that it is enough to make minimal signs, saying that things are okay because they are legal, even though they may be immoral. With regard to distrust in this government, there is no need to multiply, not just the world, not just the people of the country, not just us in the government position but more that they themselves do not trust. The head of the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, introduced the government in this way on the steps of the General Assembly in the week that the government was a mess. It does not need our word in the opposition, that is, the leader of the Independence Party, which itself describes the situation. When a new prime minister says that it is irresponsible to vote now, what is it, then, to appoint a government that is personally convinced of being a mess? Are there any Icelanders who would have done worse than this government has in recent days? Wouldn't it have been better even to pull names from a hat and put them on the government bench than to have this performance? Is it not absolutely irresponsible to let an equal incompetent government continue, which is in Florida while the fires burn? When a minister of finance says that we've trusted the state's institutions with information on the tax business, I've called for seven and a half years after getting information from taxes, but it never occurred to me that there were politicians who were there, much less a senior tax officer in the country, and still after the Secretary of finance is up to be on the islands, he thought that he would keep sitting as head of a tax policy force in the country. It's so far-real that it doesn't talk. It is unavoidable that the council will launch an investigation and announcement of all that can be reported on by politicians and public officials in this scandal, but most important that the public will be allowed to settle the political affairs of the country, the privileged classes, and the corruption on the continents by choosing right away. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u9	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. It is clear that anyone has not missed that the week has been very political. The word has political changes. There is no need for any trace of the passing week, all that media coverage and so forth, in later years. We have seen a prime minister step aside from the government and form a different government with a new prime minister but with the same position of government. It's not often happening in the middle of the term period. The thing that's been in this discussion all week, by a famous Castlight show that was on TV, I don't think it's over. I think there'll be other issues. We're just beginning to see this, here is actually an extraordinary number of Icelandic companies who were in the economic crisis in one way or another connected with a tax bill. So far, only a small number have come up. We will see this clearly in the weeks and months that follow. There's a tax cover discussion. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's not okay to have money under taxes and taxes. They need to be uprooted. There's a lot of research here, and there's need to be some enlightenment, and everything up to the table, and so on. The question, however, is: How can we eliminate the fact that money is stored in taxes? As I said earlier, much of what has been raised in the discussion has been due to the years before the economic breakdown. I don't think it's common today for men to start a business to cover taxes from so-called taxes. We need to review it at the General Assembly in a transpherd political event in a way that can eliminate the burden of taxes. Must the legislature change the law? Does the law have to change it so that it won't happen again? We're about to take in some parapolitic penalties. Do we have to deal with this in some way? Is there a need for the legislature to respond somehow so that this will not happen again? A respectable president. These are tasks that we should be able to perform at the International Parliament, the current legislature, take a transnational discussion, review these matters, and see if any adjustments are needed. Once the prime minister has set aside and has been formed a new government under the lead of the Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson, it is only natural that in addition to our going to that cross - political work, the government accomplished the larger work that is being carried out, and with the present administrative part, by the administration of a more management section of the Annexe and by an independent class. Prime Minister has stepped aside. In the community, it was a call for him to step aside. It is also called on in the community for rapid disposal of currency wastes. This is important for individuals and jobs in the country. It's called after we complete the housing issues and are part of the collective agreements and lead to the council. In small and medium-sized companies it is called upon to cut down insurance costs in the country. The key is a bill. This is called upon to reduce the expense of patients. This legislature is waiting for a bill that turns that around. That's the way you keep counting. A respectable president. On this basis it is important to reject the proposal offered here today by the government. However, this is not to say that the International Parliament should not discuss what has been discussed in the past few weeks and will be discussed in the following weeks and months. We should be able to do so out of calmness and nonviolent means. The prime minister goes out of the government to continue the works that the government has started, he has stepped aside. As a legislature of these matters, we can continue our discussion as a legislature, and let us do so. I'll call for it. Let us, then, do so in a clear way. What adjustments do we need to see? Do these matters need to be changed by legislation in Iceland? In what ways, then, do legislation in Iceland need to be changed regarding them? I think there's every reason to think there's a parapolitic approach to this project. There is no reason for the newly appointed government of Sigurdrund Sigurður of Jóhannsson, who has more than any share in the Council, to be ousted on the first day. She has many other tasks to wait for, hopefully, for a transboundary approach, but they may not all be able to do so. They're going to finish this government and it's going to be an election. When the big ones are done, no one is afraid to go to the election. This is the reason why it is important to reject a form of distrust presented by the government side here today, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u10	A respectable president. The situation in Iceland is very serious. Our little community has been exposed to vast numbers of opinions, opinions that the world is following. The people are struck. It is the feeling that this is the case with people who did not have a skin breakdown but had a slight discomfort that led to the need for them to shoot several billion for safety in foreign lands, people who are completely out of contact with public realities, young people searching for housing, students, patients, and disability. The reality of rich people. The leadership of the government groups has provided minimal changes in the government without anyone mentioning what has happened. V.E.G. The new prime Ingi Sigurður Jóhannsson, this morning, did not mention a relative or a tax officer's name. Bjarni Benediktsson did not do that until, in fact, he was forced to do so earlier. The denial of the government party is absolute. This hors d'you think it might be acceptable to despise Iceland, America and society. The government government of Sigurður Ingi son of Jóhannsson begins his journey with a lack of confidence in the country's success, as reflected in this morning's new survey of Machine, which shows that 65% have little or very little confidence in the government on its first day. A new prime minister's speech this morning was surprising and reflected reality independence, referring to the old text of a former government declaration of cooperation, a government that accepted his commission in fake elections, as if nothing had happened, as if nothing had ever happened. But what has happened? Hv. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson's son continues to be the chairman of the advance party, and he has started a conflict with independents. On TV yesterday, he said that Bjarni's case was comparable to his own while Bjarni says that he himself did not have a claim on the old bank's swelling shop. This happened yesterday after the conclusion came, and another fine meeting had been held. News reports this morning that 332 ministers in Western Europe are at the head. Of these, there are four societies in the tax industry, and there are three in the advanced government of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunoll. [[Up front.]] These three are both presidents of the government groups and one of the vice presidents. The taxing government has to leave, even if only because of this. V.E.G. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson told the press earlier that there was no conclusion above criticism, and he suggested that individual members of the State Party wanted an election immediately. You see, that's it. Since no conclusion is under way above criticism, the mistrust rate is established, as well as a motion for violation and elections. The findings of the judges are, of course, wrong. It is a prerequisite that there is some particular work that no one can do but groups that are in chaos and a government that is completely trusted. All that evidence is being made foreboded, and no project is so urgent that it cannot be resolved with the nation's new commission. At such critical times, the nation must be brought together and used for the general election. The call is clear, and the need is urgent, the tax government cannot be trusted for one task. It is inconceivable to continue, it is unacceptable and unacceptable for a society that needs to be restored to faith and credibility. Tax sea is one of the most complex issues of the day, and it is extremely important to stop the normal activities of today. The tax industry contains money that has come to share because of arms sales, drug sales, mansales, and prostitution. It contains money that is being turned from taxes and tries to avoid paying to society, to the infrastructure, and to the welfare systems of society. Those who have their money on taxes and who claim that they have paid taxes and the duties of that money are in certain ways helping with nonstatutory activities of various types, as well as where there is no way to verify that tax pay information is based on adequate information. How unacceptable it is that the leaders of a community that wants to be viewed as enlightened democracies are involved in justifying such activity by making personal contributions in such a way! The Great Panama Insect is about a tax field. It is about this kind of arrangement that is unacceptable by everything. Now bound to Britain's Prime Minister, David Cameron, the amount of $2.5 million. When it comes to taxes and demurries, it is a prince's concern, a principle, not the sum. It is not enough for an Icelandic community to have one minister step aside. It's unacceptable, except that the Ministers who appear in the Panamas will all step aside and the government will leave. Laws have so far failed to prevent the use of such districts. This use undermines communities and holes within the world's welfare systems. In this, the heads of the board of directors take part, and they are not ashamed of it. It is not virtue to obey the law. It is a minimal requirement for all. Paying taxes is not virtue, that is a minimum requirement for all. The country, on the other hand, makes increased demands to policy - oriented, moral - minded people, that they are trustworthy in the task of improving matters that are wrong but are not exactly deeply involved in the reception. All of this seems to realize that only the government officials who are ashamed, see nothing wrong, and are completely out of harmony with reality. They're not supposed to get involved in politics. Such classes are not meant to be in control. The law here must be applied to those who have been wronged and have earned money from fellow citizens and society. The strongest requirement for society is honesty. A respectable president. Here are some surfaces for the 50 - part divisions, the crash parties, the party that drove the politicians into the economic crisis to reduce regulations, starve surveillance agencies, and sell community property. Their responsibility was complete and is clearly expressed in the WHO study report. The situation today is totally responsible for the same categories, independence classes, and the forwarding classes. These categories must be given a long break. That's what the next election's supposed to be, and it's got to be right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u11	A respectable president. I think the debate that has been presented here very clearly shows that there is a good agreement in the chamber that it is important to fight against the arrangements of national societies and the possibilities there to fire human taxpayers. V.E.G. In recent years, a minister of finance spoke well of what measures had been taken to stop such conduct and to reduce the confidentiality of the one found there. I think we all agree on this and that these matters will continue to be carried out in international cooperation. I think the events here have become very dependent on that solidarity. A respectable president. All I want to do is make it a subject of that speech. paritaprevir Some time ago, Páll the Athenian Árnason thought. It made me feel like there was a pretty new tone. I believe this speech should be taken note as far as it is concerned that there are large issues, important ones in the community, that we need to talk about, and that we have done in spite of conflict. I believe that one of the lawsuits that we must look into and that we need to discuss more is the lawsuit that falls under my department, the one who is called in the everyday speaking of education. I'd like to put it in a specific context that focuses on this government and the next governments. The standard of living in this country, as in other developed countries, will be the first and last focus on education. Even though we are now slaving and deciding whether to choose in spring or in the fall, whether it was enough for the prime minister to step aside or not, such matters do not leave us. We'll deal with them in elections, next elections and then the next election, etc., but I think we need to start putting such a party into a bit different from what has been done. That's what I want to talk about here about this government and even the next one and the next. Recently, there have been striking figures on production in Iceland and GDP every hour. The figures in whites show that me and Iceland have been getting worse with their production at every hour, how much we have to work for our valuables, and what's more, this country that has so vast resources, is far behind countries that have limited resources but have achieved in the power of education and ingenuity to get far beyond what we can produce at every hour. When you look forward to a longer time, a respectable president, lifting yourself up only to the discussions and wondering what future possibilities we Icelanders have, I believe it is of utmost importance that we invest in future generations, young people, and give them the opportunity to cope with the future. Even though there is conflict here and hardship, we are faced with this task even heavy and sworn words. We face tremendous challenges. A respectable president. As a minister of education, I have been putting forth all my effort to make these changes in education so that young people in Iceland will have the opportunity to stand in the same situation as those in which we compare with living, to change the fact that we Iceland are nations when it comes to graduating with first university degrees, to change the fact that the school system will bring our students out much later into the lifetime with its preparatory education. They ask: " What does this have to do with distrust? A respectable president. All of this has to do with the discussion. I hear what you're saying. Councilmen make small distinctions, natural, of the government that has taken over and those who previously sat in this terms, but her work must be here for discussion, since it is hardly a matter of consideration for only the last few hours. Because there is mistrust in the government, we must discuss the actions and emphasis. I say, more dignified President, when considering what has been accomplished in the terms of the term in terms of bringing up health issues, educations, biographies in the country, commercial growth, government status, more economic investments, which is the basis for continuing economic growth in this country, and comparing these developments in Iceland with what has happened in countries we are comparing ourselves to these days, i.e. If we look at what has been going on in most European states for the past two, three years, it is obvious that the government that began its reign in 2013 and that since yesterday, the work of government conferences has been very effective. But I note that it is not enough to see the results of recent years. Rather, we need to look to the factors that are viewed for an extended period of time, such as education. I am the opinion, a respected president, and I have said this before: We need to increase our investment in education because it is an investment in the future of the nation. Yes, a dignified president, this statement, and this opinion, with mistrust, has all to do. In recent years, we've made a system change, redesigned changes, including To make sure that everything is done so that our children can learn to read, the basic factors that have been so wrong. The government faced with a mistrust talk must point to such actions, and at the same time, the direction to take on important issues. A respectable president. I believe that the land we live in has all the possibilities and probably more potential than most other countries of the world to give its citizens a good standard of living, not only materially but also in the face of all aspects of human society. In fact, it is our custom to forget that when we look at Iceland with the eyes of international institutions that look at the standard of living and appreciate how well nations stand that significant, respectable President, despite all the conflict here, despite the way we speak at times, there is much good in our society. Indeed, it is a great helm. Certainly, the events of the past few days are not for us. But what is well done is not to be overlooked. Don't forget what's good in Iceland. The results we have obtained should not be forgotten. All political groups in Iceland are involved in that success. Of course, I'm thinking that the current government and the one sitting in the election season have achieved tremendous success, but all classes have been participants in this project, and not just before collapse, but after collapse. A respectable president. We can agree on this. We can agree that there is an opportunity for all of us in this room to make our country better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u12	A respectable president. One of the phrases that have rocked the last few days of this discussion is that there is a problem with having money in Iceland. It's the highest. the current prime minister with that sentence. It's not very clear to political rights, but I'd like to try to rephrase it by saying, "It's a complicated thing to have one kind of money in Iceland. What I and my associates in the short future have claimed in recent years is that we need a new currency in the country. But the claim has been made, including of an advanced prime minister, that a dollar is the best currency. We've been trying to get a discussion on this and to try to get an approved motion for Iceland to meet its own policy and specific policy in currency, but the members of the administration have not seen any reason to discuss it specifically with us. Then it turns out that the prime minister himself has kept his money in another coin. This is among the questions that the government will discuss with us in the opposition in the coming weeks and months if it is going to continue like this. You see, it would be politically clever of us who are in our government's opposition to allow the government to organize the retreat so that the Ministers will be forced to fend off again, defending themselves from fleeing, as they intend to do for the next few weeks and months. They also have to answer the question raised between the heads of the Independence Party and the forward party, because there is now a dispute between them, which belongs to the highest estate. The national secretary of finance is comparable to the property of a former prime minister in an ethnic society. A former prime minister wants to deny that he is. He's the head of the advance party. The Head of the Independence Party wants to deny that it is not, there is a big difference. I wonder what I'm looking at. The prime minister in that regard? I wonder if he agrees with the head of the forward party or if he agrees with the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance? This is among the questions we will want to know. Are these similar issues? It's the highest. Prime Minister of the same opinion as his chairman or secretary of finance? This has been true in the case of those who support this government that it is unusual and may be unfair that she has to make a suggestion for distrust on her first day of employment. But there's a lot of distrust in this government. There's no question about that. I don't remember, and it's probably the case in history, that the government will start working with a quarterly trust. The government is placed in trust by 25◯26% of the people. Is it unnatural that such a government, which sets out with such persistent questions, with such little confidence, would prove it in the elections of a chamber that it has understood more things? Is it unnatural that those in government opposition ask those who are government foot soldiers to declare a special and independent support for the government? That they are walking in agreement with the sequence of events that has already begun? That each one, political and personal, will become responsible for this order? That's perfectly normal. And it is perfectly normal for the voters of the country to take sides with these politicians, individually, from their actions at the Assembly Hall today. There's no question about that. What is now happening, and governments keep repeating, is that they must be allowed to complete the disposal of seawater, as if no one else can do it but they can. Have not the three recent governments been involved in this project with the Secret Service and its officials? Has it not been brilliant to pass that ball on to different governments? I think so. So there is no objection. The challenge is to get a date on these elections, out of the side of the administrative forces because we do not trust in their plans for elections in the fall. [[Taken out on: right.]] They said they were going to make an election during the first part of the terms of the European Union. Where's the election? When were they elections? Did I miss them? Were they within the Independence Party? How was this done? [[Up front.]] We have to get a date out of the government, when are they going to report an election? They have to date them, and then we can start talking.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u13	A respectable president. It's a sad day for Iceland and the Generals all of it. There is a lack of confidence in a new government on the day of its arrival. It's sad for everyone. When I read the General's study report on the start and reaction of the bank crash, there was one line that caused anxiety in the stomach. It was when Hreiðar Már Sigurðsson, then president of Copenhagen, said that in every man's dream his fall was hidden, there he quoted Stein Steinn Steinar. I'm sure the dream of this Iceland fell, and we're still working on it. During these last few days, I have been reminded of a Scandinavian movie in which each scene after another is embarrassing that you have to push a pause and go out and get some fresh air so you don't throw up. It's been really embarrassing for everyone, not just for the Generals, but for the foreign mediamen who have come here to observe the weirdness of the game we've set up. I don't think Sófókles, poet of ancient Greece, could have done better. At the beginning of the Panama case, when it was found to be true. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Gunnlaugsson Gunollsson, former prime minister, should be viewed as embarrassing, at most uncomfortable, as if it were some gnable bite -- no, no, it's all right. You know what's embarrassing? It's embarrassing to skim the bananas. It's embarrassing to misjudge yourself in a punk. That's embarrassing. But it's not embarrassing. This is shameful. And this is where there's been a storm of lies, contradictions, and I don't know what or what. It's not embarrassing. It's shameful. The reasons for doing so are the highest. A financial minister lists the need to continue the administrative work by some outside the highest level. A government is natural, awesome and all that, as we all know. Of course, I'm being sarcastic. But the election is his first mention. As far as I knew, there was a separation and three - part power in Iceland, so it is not surprising that there are elections ahead. They are to occur in spite of our existence and strife. Second, he mentions an auction of a native. I think the highest. The minister of finance does not understand the purpose of these mistrust issues. It is about our not trusting in him in the vital task of an auction off - land machine. Other than that, there is all that has been going on over the past few days and weeks. Isn't this auction ruined already? Haven't we ruined Iceland's reputation enough that this auction shouldn't be done? Has anyone thought about that? In addition, he noted that 45 days is a short time to prepare an election. I'm not afraid to prepare a campaign in 45 days, but it's certain that both the independent party and the forward party will stand on their feet in due time. These are all the reasons for the distrust proposal. We don't trust you. We are not confident that you will be able to do anything that needs to be overcome. We do not trust you to oppose the constitutions needed for, for example, the elections and the 45 days of the year to become a problem. But no matter what, it seems like they want to go on. Another factor that has been much in recent discussions is what is legal. Did you know that the Nazi death camps were legal? The slavery in Europe and America was also legal. Unsexuality was once illegal. Gay practices had to be legalized. Women's rights had to be legalized. The legal nature of something does not mean that it can do everything. We have a set of moral boundaries in our society, and as a community, we make that limit. We feel that we have been crossed the limit when it comes to former prime minister's amulets, the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Minister of state. The discussion needs to be much more moral than it has so far. It is my deepest wish that when they first went to the council, members of the board will fulfill their word of honor. It is my deepest wish that this will be the last government that will be ruled by democracy, in which the common members of Congress are in danger of becoming oppressed. It is my wish that leadership in Icelandic politics will be no more. A major concern of the threat of 38 members of Congress is not possible. There should be no such thing. Every senator should be able to stand on his own feet and maintain his own convictions. I think the government's dream of retaining power will bring her to ruin. It's just a question of how much longer we have to put up with this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u14	V.E.G. President. The reason for the distrust presented here is obvious. The present government does not have the trust of the nation because of the largest scandalous political history. The requirement for elections is the people's insistence to wash away this scandal and return the shame where it belongs. When it became clear that former prime minister, why? paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, a secret associate of Tortula's wife, was making an inevitable transfer of mistrust. The reaction of former prime minister and his party to the revelations was at first spades, followed by attacks on those who gave the news and dared to have that view. Under normal circumstances, a former prime minister should have voluntarily or his party members were to force him to do so quickly. Multi-way protests and international coverage made a big difference, but they eventually needed the Independence Party and the Republic's President to put the former prime minister at the door. The dishonored enterprise in this matter is a great deal. None of the class's leaders took sides and demanded the resignation of the prime minister. Current level. The prime minister could not even criticize the former prime minister after the Castis show on the Panama Documents last Sunday. Nothing in the march of the highest. The prime minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson of Joni during the last days suggests that he understands the seriousness of the situation. He has not apologized or condemned his predecessor's secretaries. No leader of the party has ever demanded to do so. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson quit being the head of the party and escapes from a council outside one. paritaprevir Höskuldur the Þór of Þórhallsson, who first expressed his position this morning. While we're still at it. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, chairman of the advance party, can be called the current government of the Davíð Davidics. No important decisions will be made without the presence of the head of the class in one way or another. The head of the advance party will not sit at the government table, but his influence there will remain. The government has had a facelift, but it's still the same government as Davíð Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson's cover manager. V.E.G. No doubt, Prime Minister has the most direct comment on the scandal being discussed here. Of course, having money in Iceland is obviously quite complicated. Minister. Of course, it is quite difficult to have money in Iceland, but the prime minister of the government said that he is willing to be more national than others. The people of the United States are stuck with the crown as the head of the Agency never tire of promising, but they do not use it when money has to be hidden abroad. One day, religion is spoken of in the country, but the next thing you know, secret societies in the tax Paradise are normal and self - determination. V.E.G. When faced with problems of wealth, the prime minister leaves no room for the lack of trust in dealing with the fact that Iceland is unusually multiblown in the classified material that has now been exposed. 600 Icelanders have at least owned secret societies in the African country. Here, however, is just one of the three banks, the data on the other two remain hidden. During the following days and weeks, more information will be made about debino societies will be made public. Anger and unrest in society will not reduce that information. V.E.G. President. I mentioned earlier about the dishonors of the forward party. On the 100th anniversary of his party, his conduct has not only damaged international trust and spirituality but also damaged the reputation of his country. The dishonorable Party of Independence is one of the least. The company's shadow is over the pack. A total of 70% of the population wants the highest. Commissary Bjarni Benediktsson. V.E.G. The minister of finance wants to complete a certain task, but the people obviously do not trust him to do so. The people do not trust the government to finish their work, and they will not be finished, for the government of Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson of Jong is still born. We, on the basis of this mistrust list, expect every member of the board to step forward, to explain his vote and to explain his position to voters. We want to cut off the council and the election now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u15	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u16	V.E.G. President. The leadership of the government of the move - forward party and independence party is improved by the interests of the citizens of the country and by the promotion of professional life. This emphasis was made on the July 22, 2013, issue of this resolution, is still valid and is the theme of a challenging job ahead. Now, just a few years after the collapse, we Icelanders are one of the world's most stable people financially. The successful restoration of our community is an accomplishment, and we should be proud of it. It's been asked today: Don't these people know what they're doing? I can answer that question by listing what has gone down and being carried out during this terms, such as that. that their homes' debt has dropped faster under the government than ever before. The commercial power of everyone has increased, and this has been one of the longest economics in the republic's history, a complete reversal of the state's funds, and budgets have been provided with 350 billion rest. The structure of the health system is under way. At that time, the two cases set up on the 1st of 2013, on the other hand, improved the price-proof housing bar and the solution to the worn - down banks to facilitate the release of capital waste, have been successfully solved. The correction of debt was the response to the pleas of a large part of the nation, which suffered a severe trauma and was severely unjust. A solution to the fragmented stocks will lead to 500 billion dollars. A better position of state funds, as well as many other positive national factors. As a result of the operation, government loans and businesses have gone up. This tells Buchheit Busty's remarkable success in the financial history of the world. V.E.G. President. This is what I could continue, for indeed, people were not without work, but among the government, it does not seem to be a demand for these facts. We have not been able to deal with the tragedy of the past years, and we must admit that failure has been made and not enough success has been achieved in our conversations with the nation. It is certainly a work to do, for somehow we must find that we are at peace with one another so that we can approach one another with dignity and reasonableness. We're all under obligation to return our systems to the community and we want to stop. No one agrees. To take the next step, I believe it is important to maintain political and economic stability in the country. V.E.G. President. For example, in support of my case, I would like to point out what was presented in the news on April 6 of the past and in terms of the time frame at the disposal of a currency stand, one of the most important projects available. It says Ásgeir Jónsson, who died at the University of Iceland, by permission of presidents: ▪ I would think that this is the case that any class should be able to agree in any way that the goals are transpolitic. There's been a lot of work done, both on the Federal Bank and on the Ministry of Economics, and I would remember thinking that this case was very far away. What is needed is a port, and I would conclude that most classes should agree on the payment even if there are some details that can be identified. The important thing is to keep this time frame on, that these legal standards can be submitted which allow the National Bank to follow this programme. An election could delay the removal of a currency pot, and it could be very damaging to Icelandic business life. V.E.G. President. Here's one of the big things I believe we have an obligation to complete so we can continue to build a powerful community. Then I'd also like to mention the existing housing bills, and many are waiting to solve individuals with low income incomes and find ways to get a roof over their heads. These cases have been handled in agreement with the labour market parties and are in Congress. Their success is toward making big, positive changes in housing markets. I don't want to put the nation in a position where political uncertainty and the threat of an economic crisis are happening. V.E.G. President. It's been said here that the government is out of commission. It is therefore good to review each member of the Parliament and the government of the United States. Congress officials are taking their commission to the people of the General election and the government's commission is based on a greater proportion of members of the Parliament at the General Assembly. The commission of this government will be confirmed below. The government of Sigurður Ingi son of Jóhannsson has put his lines in the first place by means of a conversation with the lesser part. Now men are trying, and I trust the prime minister to present important issues firmly and to unite us in the goal of achieving benefits for our country. So I reject this distrust.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u17	V.E.G. President. We're going to discuss a Senate decree of distrust of the government, violation of Congress, and new elections. I'd like to say, sir, a respectable president, that I trust this newly placed highest power. Government, for I believe in the administrative community of the Superintendent and Independence Party of the greater part of this new system. The government's behind itself. Strong more things, respectable president, elected agents. Here are national interests in full priority, and the projects involved need to be completed. I'm not going to belittle the events that have been drawn up here. The situation is very serious. In fact, it is very healthy to discuss from the position of the proposal that is on the schedule because it almost gives us the truth of how this new government will complete the work I came on. It may be the least of all about securing political stability in this situation. At the same time, however, it is about sharpening the point that money has not been left behind in societies, on tax cover, and not paid for society. It can be said that the positiveness of this discussion and the great number of data leaks we have witnessed that, in fact, further evidence is yet to be revealed, will sharpen this vision, and will further shape the attitude and political opinions of all classes, the views of society, all of them, that it is not expected to be used in order to hide property and to avoid paying taxes. It's never been, it shouldn't be. Groups have now agreed to make changes, necessary changes. Clearly, the emphasis is on maintaining a stable balance and harmony in the work ahead. It is important to keep in mind the current activities that need to be stressed, especially in the face of stability, political stability, and maintenance of economic stability. Therefore, it is urgent to look for a course of action in these main tasks. It is true that in part political affairs are about power, and in the interest of democracy, we have created that shape. We must respect this form, remain calm, be firm, be calm, and take care, thus preventing out control. I am pleased with the councils that make up a greater part of this, to deal with these situations, to make adjustments, and to make decisions necessary to make, decisions that will keep the nation's management going, and to complete the important work being carried out. It is natural for people to protest in such situations that we have been discussing, that people tell us what is okay, and what is wrong. Therefore, we politicians are expected to come and follow along by action, if necessary, appropriate legal adjustments. It is also natural for people to have opinions about whether elected representatives are members of an ethnic group. As matters are, we must evaluate them in the light of laws, regulations, and interests. When we discuss the demands of trust in the government, we must evaluate the work and the situation. As we consider and try to overcome objective positions and approach from the target of the proposed situation, it will be said that this government community has been successful. Reckonment of the mutant loans, controversial action, yes, let it be, complex in action but ambitious economic action. She succeeded, and without inflation, it would be as many peddlers thought would be. The fact is, the homes'debt has fallen during that period. There was a complex situation in labour markets and collective contracts, where the government came to resolve. And the conclusion, what is it? In fact, increased power of money has never been greater because of taxation, general product expenditures, and tolls that have inexhaustible effects. Budgets have been returned in threefolds, and provision for emissions has led to a lack of national success for decades. At the same time, historical merit has been acquired. Otherwise, there would have been less than a year of elections. Yet, economic success and stability are the will to upset these results. [[The president calls.]] I would like to continue this cooperation of the greater part to complete the work on the basis of success and completion of an important project. As noted in the case of many whales, the most important emissions are reported. Councilmen, as well as the government. [[Let's finish it...]] Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has expressed a cooperative desire to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u18	Let's finish it in two months...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u19	That's why I say, a respectable president: I cannot accept the proposal that is here for distrust in this government. Let us make the results count and fulfill the work that really matters. [[The point is, acknowledge them...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u20	Madam President. For a while I thought the government had taken this suggestion so seriously that it was just gone. There was no one here at the Ministry School earlier, but it was the highest. Prime Minister has arrived, and I rejoice as I congratulate him on his career, although it may be unconventional to begin a discussion of mistrust in a government with congratulations. I'm still going to do it for the sake of tradition, and I especially want to congratulate a new foreign minister. The Minister of utanríkisráðherra to Lilja Alfredd, who I know of a good one, and I think it's the best thing about this government, sort of the one thing. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Why is there a lack of trust now, and a breach of Congress, and a new election? It's simply because we're stuck with a ruined government. She has, in fact, acknowledged it herself and has highestly accepted it. The ladder minister of financial matters that night when he wanted to put it so that the government's possession was also in trash, as well. The government was, then, so it was. She's a reliable window. She has no public support. Never in the republic's history has the government started with such little support. A fourth of the population has some opinion of it. It can be said of the government, as was said of an unnamed man of old: She labors to do so. It doesn't go too well. V.E.G. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance confirmed by his case during discussions, e.g. In an unscheduled question period yesterday, one of them in another office, and in discussions this morning, that this is exactly the same government with exactly the same attitude. What was the lawsuit, and who is it with the governors? We, the government, have achieved so much success. We've done this and that. We've lost the house's debt. We've made sure of economic growth. We have increased the number of tourists. We've milked the mackerel into the weekend. We have done all of this, and therefore we alone are trustworthy in governing. They come to the conclusion that they are essential. Why, then, ask for just three more months or six more? [[Up front.]] Mustn't this government sit outside so that man will be the only one who renews in it, that he is so indispensable? [[Up front.]] If so, may I ask for the attitude Kristján a former president named Eldjárn Elkrim, who announced that he would not volunteer at a critical time in Icelandic politics in 1980: There is no essential one. It is dangerous if people come to feel that they are essential and do not trust anyone else. It's about time to stop. There are compelling reasons why the government should immediately depart from its thinking that it is essential. In all history, it has always proved dangerous to be under such human rule. The arrogance, the pride of authority, which is evident in this, is the same as in the Panama case. The same attitude toward their own actions as they do in dealing with them. This is simply not working out, Madam President. It's not about this living thing. It's due for spring. It is supposed to eliminate the uncertainty and shorten the resolution period in Icelandic politics because it will take one month to choose whenever it is done. The difference is that we already have the first breath, and for the next four years, hopefully a solidly authorized government and can continue our course. This famine - interaction management management is doing nothing more than extending the uncertainty of Icelandic politics for three, four months, nothing else, if that promise of elections. True, that is not the time to put the matter to the test. She'll be gone first. She'll be gone before I know it. For example, she cannot cope with the huge task of processing the information of the Panama documents and what is to come out of it. It's a political impossible, which Bjarni Benediktsson, U.S.A. A financial and economic minister may understand that he has used the term a great deal, that he is the financial minister himself in the arts govern the way the government of the country handles that reality. It's a political impossible. It's not working. The government claims that it has to be in power to eliminate the head of a currency. What, to cut off a currency head? Does that exist in May? Do they not know for themselves what is on the program? What we're doing in May is an auction on the Off-country, not abduction charge. They should not be touched until the results of the auction are available, and in view of the way they were able to relax the seas. But it does not stand to destroy, remove, unless the government intends to do so in opposition to the Federal Bank. The latening bank has made this very clear that after the deportations have been cleared out of the economy at some point of the new rules, speed restrictions, response instruments, in other words, have not been removed. So here they are trying to mislead humans into believing that there is more to come than there is to come, and there is no understanding. I say just as it is, Madam President, I always feel worse and worse with the fate of this country in the hands of these men. This isn't working. With regard to the facilities that are to be so sacred and important, there is one case that needs to be seriously fixed, and then there may be some hope that it will be of benefit, but it will not be built until 2017, 2018. No man will move into an apartment that was specifically built in this government's time. It won't be like that. So completely, she's preconceived it. So the conclusion is simple. They're supposed to vote and vote at once. This results in great benefits. Let us unite in making the minimal measures needed for things to be planned for in April and May. If there is a need to make simple changes in currency laws so that the auction can be done in May, we do so, we're used to doing some sort of tribunals and we know them well. But let me finally remind you, when the government now boasts that this is the auction she personally introduced last October. It's not over yet. Now, all of us are to be responsible for this and have to sit down with this food - stricken government so that she can attend her auction six months later than she announced. That's all of it. Madam President. There's nothing more to discuss. At least we at least agree on the assessment of the situation. They may agree with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u21	A respectable president. About three weeks ago, the government asked for the resignation of a former prime minister because of his personal affairs. It was not until this week, however, when it was clear to everyone that the former prime minister, the government, began to demand that all things alone be announced for the election even now. Right away - in the most narrow sense of that word. Up to that time, officials of the government and others had well described that the case of the former prime minister was quite unique and, for example, of a completely different sort, but of the cases that have been attempted to connect two other ministers. There is nothing unusual, a respectable president, about any local government opposition calling for a vote. There's nothing new about it. It is also good to remember that it is only natural, of course, that the administrative sector at any given time listens and takes into account the objective views set out here within the council and also outside the council but the democracy follows the rights and duties of elected representatives to handle the assignment they have been chosen for and the problems that may arise at any given time. I do not deny that no government is easy for Prime Minister to step back, but in this case it was solved both quickly and in my opinion very well. There's no government crisis here. There is no such confusion in society that right now, in the narrowest sense of the word that can be thought - out, it is electioned. There is no basis for anything other than that the government now under the new Presidency will carry out its duties toward those who, by democratic means, authorized them to do so. I believe that men in this and other areas of society are generally on the basis of interest logs. I think it's perfectly normal for men to discuss it. All a couple of agents may have to do is bite some sweet apple, if anyone thinks it's normal to connect with the business world while they have the authority to represent them. That's what you did. Secretary of finance in 2009, long before he became a minister. I'm not saying that it cannot be practical from time to time or natural for elected agents to be connected in some way to employment, to the university or to work along their authority for voters, but it must be quite clear what it involves, and to be careful not to inform all of these materials. In this regard, keep in mind that the interests of a mate are always the interests of a married couple. This is what we need to discuss, and I encourage the whole world to look at the rules that apply to members of Congress right here in the next few weeks so that none of these matters will ever be taken seriously. A respectable president. I'll refer to the democracy and the administration order as a vote against the synonym and challenger. Councilmen to do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u22	V.E.G. President. It doesn't have to come either. Senators are very surprised, but I'm quite in the same place as the one who saw it. A senator here spoke last. There is, of course, a violation of Congress in a way proposed by the government only if the government is in the position that the majority of it at the council is dead and there is no chance of forming a government that supports the Council. Of course, the government's right to make such suggestions, and they are handled in votes, but in view of the events of the week, this proposal has become somewhat peculiar in view of the fact that a new government is being adopted, which obviously is supported by a much more part of the council. We have an example that governments have sat on the basis of a weakness of a weakness, and in such circumstances, when there is uncertainty about the support that governments really enjoy within the council, it is reasonable to put it to the test. But I'm saying this because I think it's the necessary thing to come up with, that there should be a mistrust in the government and a year's election before a constitution is expected, there should not be any place in this discussion. Of course, the government's situation may have many comments to the position of the government and its actions. Congress is a place for such discussions to take place. Of course, we have seen that the conditions we have experienced in these last days are very special. This is a very unusual situation and that I think nothing at all when a prime minister decides to ask for a release on his behalf and ministry in a way that took place during the first part of the week. There are unprecedented circumstances. However, on the basis of the Council of Congress, there has been a new government. The situation, we can say at the beginning of this week, has been resolved. Criticism. The members of the government stand are making it sound to me during the discussion that was largely the same as they lived two months, three months ago, since they have not supported the government or its policy. However, the administrative situation has been resolved, reflecting the reaction of the government classes to the reports and events that occurred. It is also correct to assume in this context that the government groups have been involved in the formation of a new government on the matter of making total elections until it is mandatory. I hope that in spite of today's proposal and the consequences it will likely receive in the later votes, there will be some sort of conversation between the government parties and the government groups on how it should be handled. I think that if the election is established until the terms of the season expire, it is desirable that such timeliness will remain and come to a conclusion in some kind of agreement. Of course, the same is true of the important tasks that have been explained as being on the board of the government and being in the middle of a process. I think it is important that there is a discussion between government and government opposition on how these matters will be cleared up. And I hope that the tone that has been heard in the individual members of the government opposition that no case on behalf of that government will be resolved and that other threats will not be realized in terms of a truly national situation, and surely there has been relative peace up to this point. Let's face up to issues that have been in baloney, but when it comes to matters that have been reasonably acceptable to work, and everyone realizes that they are urgent about national interests, I hope that the government won't be in the situation of trying to break their progress just on the basis of pure animosity toward the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u23	A respectable president. Scholars who study the causes and consequences of corruption and international institutions and the free organizations that oppose it, such as Transparancy International, agree on what is a characteristic of society that is mostly free of corruption and in which good politics and governments work hard in behalf of the public. What distinguishes politics in such areas is referred to as an English good quality governance and is characterized by the willingness to seek general reconciliation and media, the active involvement of public, transparency, free and independent media, respect for government opinions and needs of the common people, and the willingness to take responsibility for their actions and treatment. In view of this well - known fact, governments focus on achieving as far as the most widely distributed agreement on the fundamental issues in society. The majority do not use less violence but take into account everyone's viewpoints. It is sought to ensure that the public has access to information and data that are relevant to him to form opinions on a solid basis and to use his democratic authority in an enlightened way. In other words, the government is absolutely aware that their role is to serve the public, not to exercise authority or control it, let alone deceive, conceal information, and mislead the public. Why am I doing this? Because these are the standards that I find obvious to be the political parties that have ruled the country for the past few years and are certainly unwilling to take their actions into court. They love power, but they fear the common people. The Declaration of the Government of the Ministry and the Independence Party contains several noble objectives and some of the above - mentioned spirit. For one thing, it says that the nation will be activated by its side and will counteract the divisions and suspicions that have characterized Icelandic politics and society discussions for some time. My partner is supposed to be a cooperative project. The land should be a family country where children live on equal occasions. Do not encourage the youngest generations to develop faith in the future of land and nation. But how has the work been done? Has this government activated the nation's controversies and counteracted conflict and suspicion? Has this government shown in its work that it views society as a cooperative project? Has this been a government that has the best interests of children and priorities in behalf of children and guarantees them equal opportunities? No, indeed. This government has not done anything to further the nation's solidarity. But she has done a great deal of work to develop divisions among her and has given her ample reason to feel distrust and distrust. Has anyone forgotten how this government betrayed disability and older citizens for the backward increases and the determined violations it showed in all the matter before the last Christmas, just to mention something? Mr. President. This government has shared and ruled. This government has not shown a trace of humility or reconciliation, but it has never lacked the lack of power and desire. The big part is in charge! I have more of the things I need, said the Secretary of finance, and the superintendent. There, a politician put himself, his unit, and his special interests above the overall interests of the common people, whom he was elected to serve. The pale words of the previous program have proved to be a meaningless beauty, which is kind of awkward to read in the past. Now I don't know if my mind was following when the Ministers put their letters on this beautiful declaration or the words of the Declaration of Policy, and it really doesn't matter what it is. The cold fact is obvious. It's been a government of special interest. If she has an opportunity, she will continue to share and to rule in behalf of her own interests. It has been a government that makes it easy on her own ministers to keep the public and the media out of the way. It's a government that allows himself to be taken lightly that ministers don't follow society's rules. It has been a government that agrees that Ministers will put their own interests ahead of the nation's interests. And another pitiless fact is that studies show that the children growing up in communities where society's rules are not respected, corrupt, and corrupt, are more likely to become dishonest themselves, and that they themselves become deceptive, and they do not follow society's rules. Is it really the vision that the government groups have for the youth of this country? A respectable president. A good woman once said that when rulers stop listening to their own people's heart beat and fail to accept their wishes, they should be replaced. Sadly, that is the situation in our good country. The people of the country have had to endure much more than enough in order to receive this government. This government is full of trust. It is an unbearable situation for the Icelandic community to have so far. So I support the distrustal issues presented here, and I also support the public demand for elections immediately. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u24	A respectable president. There is a particular red thread in this discussion that governments try to argue that there is a traditional political debate here, that the governments are defending the government and the government opposition, and then they share whether the work was good, the government was successful, and so on. It's not like that. All I can say is that we in a bright future have supported many things that the government has brought along, and other things, we have been completely against. I think that what you see is that this government has been very demeaning. She has been rather lazy about the urgent structure in society and so forth. A lot of this is nothing to fly, like it takes these classes to clear the oceans. There is a total parapolitic agreement on that matter and so on along the streets. What we're talking about today is moral. We are discussing whether this government has moral strength, whether it has the discernment to make right decisions in a difficult situation. It has held matters this way in the past in a very incredible series of events that it exposes so much corruption in Icelandic society that it can no longer be trusted. I have the religion of politics and other factors that, under difficult circumstances, you can make the right decision at all times. There may be some right decisions, but in conversations with others, and by taking a good look at each situation, you can always find something that is called the right decision. The right decision is marked by a better decision. When you are trying to make the right decision, you must avoid being led astray by anything that is going on around you in perhaps very difficult circumstances. This is often difficult for us to do. Sometimes you pull this off and sometimes you don't. I'm wondering what would have marked the good decision of the government in these circumstances. What could she have said that would have been good and testifying to her face and would really be controlled by her efforts to do all of this a little better, looking ahead as it is called in politics? Yesterday I thought that at the helm of the government, there may have been a little more normal men who could take some control of the situation. I expected exactly the same way that they would do it at some point. What would I want to see? For example, it would have been super cool and beautiful to see the leader of this government completely condemn the fact that people in politics kept money in an African society. It would also be unprecedented, completely condemned, that the same party talked to the public about the money being the best currency; they had to have their mouth where the coin is, and vice versa. It would also have to be very clear, and it would be very seriously stated in a government declaration that there would be no circumstances in which a man who was involved, a retired prime minister, would have been a demanding man himself. It would have to be very clear that it would not work. Now that we have arrived at the third, fourth, fifth day of this event, no such statement has come, no one. We now face the fact that this new government, which has not even been approved by members of these government groups, will leave it open to us as to whether all this has been done by an advanced prime minister. Then the leaders of this new government would have had to come up and say: We think it has to be so serious that there's no choice, there's going to be no choice in the environment. It would have been necessary to mention when to choose. The government hasn't done this either. We've got some serious judgment problems here. That is why this government has no confidence in its beginning meters. She did not make and is not making the right decisions. She's not saying the right thing. She sets a bad example. At one time, independents said in their slogans: " Do justice; do not tolerate unrighteousness. They once agreed that it was a key thing in politics to always try to find the best decision in any situation. I hear at the tunnel that they're a lot of both categories of advance and independence, and I agree with my opinion of what would have been best done in the circumstances, and what would have been the best way forward. What a disappointment it is to see that they do not follow their heart! They no longer believe that it is a key in politics to do what is right and not to endure injustice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u25	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a form of distrust against the government. This suggestion is not about whether the work of the government was good or bad or whether the government's policy is good or bad, although the lower parts of it have some opinions. This proposal is about trust, even if you would agree with the government on policy and even if you were satisfied with the work of the government. It's basically about trust. Many can say what has been done wrong and what has been done right. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's rights were correctly over the rights of the poor and the elderly. It can be held in this and other contexts by a long fist. But it is basically a matter of trust in the government, whether it has the confidence to carry out what it feels is so important that it itself. In the past few weeks, however, it is not only that the prime minister of the then being had a personal interest in a case he was taking the lead in speaking, but also the response of the authorities to these news and criticism, and especially to questions. Lexia in the last few weeks is that explanations and answers to such questions are suspicious and challenged. That is why, in my opinion, this was the largest protest in Iceland on Monday. And now, for the past few years, there have been many very large and loud protests, to form in the EU debate. As I'm saying, there's a lot of reasons to trace the work of the board, but it's just not the case, it's about trust. Today, Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson is no longer a prime minister, but the matter has become bigger than he and his own interests. Actually, he's still that senator I find strange but okay, not mine to say about it. But you need to ask yourself: " In view of the ways in which a person learns from the experience in Icelandic politics, does he become president of a committee? It has now been observed that a minister who stumbles away from the minister's chair after everything is in cold charcoal will suddenly become the chairman of the committee. It happens. It's my business. It's none of our business for the other senators. It's very uncomfortable. It is this way that we have become accustomed to the General Assembly, that all they possibly can do is get the trust they seek. I'm quite impressed, although I don't have much time, to cover the lesson of leak language at any time. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter because it's a lesson that I think we're learning again here, which is that we should learn to be suspicious, we should learn to distrust, we should not believe counselees when they explain their questions. That was the lesson. It was better we didn't believe what was said here in a pit of them then on the top. Minister. They had better not accept the explanation. This was essential to the conclusion of the matter. I feel the same way about this case. They might as well not believe what was said. They'd better be suspicious. This proved necessary. It is critical of the government's reaction to this particular leak and the subsequent reaction to criticism. It's a terrible lesson, Mr. Honorable President, that it remains. Hence, when such issues arise, it is so important that at least as soon as possible, they take responsibility and make it clear. In fact, not even some halfheartedly tried to begin with, now we're in a half state, it's kind of half-naked. But originally, people called all evil names here and pretended that these were some huge political attacks when these were just completely legitimate and necessary criticism, completely legitimate and normal questions, as was true in later discussions about ethics. This means that now we should have learned a lesson that in the affairs that the government will take in now and boast about doing so well, such as matters involving resistance, we might well have to be suspicious. And when we ask questions and get answers, we might as well not believe them. That is the lesson we should learn from this matter. It's a terrible lesson. We shouldn't have to sit under it. Believing has been disastrous because of the reaction to this matter. Not only because of the issue itself but also because of the reaction. To gain trust, the authorities need to show that they are seeking that confidence. They haven't. They have grown up at every occasion, always doing the least they can so as to get away with each occasion. That's bad. There is not enough solution to the problem of mixing up any right government. It takes more definitive measures, even if only to try to regain some of the country's credibility toward foreign authorities, the credibleness that has once again become critical, to say no more. This may help the authorities to complete some task even if it becomes more difficult, but it does not increase trust and cannot increase confidence. An election in the fall, the government says. We'll see about that. I'm going to predict that the majority of the shares will probably be putting responsibility for elections in the fall on the smaller part. It has become foreign when government officials talk about elections that it is always betrayed, whether it is about the EU or its constitution or what. It'll probably be less to blame if it doesn't become an election in the fall. It's probably going to be installed somehow, so you expect them to finish all their business, because it's so important that they finish it. But it's harder to get through now. And it's not less to blame. It is, therefore, that we should have learned the lesson of failing to believe, not to believe when it is answered, always to be suspicious, never to trust. That is the lesson we have learned, both in a leaky language. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter and in this matter. It is the sad lesson that will slow things down and, unfortunately, with completely perplexing issues. This government is no longer trustworthy. I wondered, " How do most of the council members imagine that the lesser part, would he be perplexing and honest with his voters, should they answer when they ask: Do you trust this government? What about this monstrosity here, any article in a bill that's about to be decommissioned? Hv. Gunnarsson You're gonna trust this to be okay? You want me to say, "Yes? Am I to say, "Yes, it's been examined and something like this, and everything seems to be okay? ' I can't do it anymore. The motive for overwhelming distrust will be ours. This will delay the case of the government when it comes to the important work the government is going to take over the terms, however far as it will be. This government cannot be trusted anymore. It will not be possible until the agency has been replaced, first of all. That means that there is no other way than to distrust. It means vote with this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u26	A respectable president. Trust is the basis for everything in politics, the basis for peace to be maintained and balance within society, the basis for which the national body works, the basis for society. If interrupted, infection can be likened to an infection that inhibits normal function, causes discomfort, tiredness, intolerance, and pain. That's the situation in New York City today. The people feel pain. It hurts from the situation. She needs and wants to overcome the lesion so she can continue her daily activities. What's the problem? The cause is corruption, especially in the realm of government, where people live in a world that is different from that of the people in which specialness, wealth, and personal friendship are replaced with the inhabitants of the land and their well - being. But there is more to corruption that undermines trust and reconciliation in Icelandic society. Dissociation between the good, the equal burden, the injustice, and the indifference toward the lives and fate of people's workings, the patients, the elderly, the younger family members, the poor children. The growing indifference since that government began is also a thorn in the nation's flesh, the thorn that undermines the laity. From infancy, we Icelanders have been brought up to be one nation, all of us in the same boat as when we give up, and we all row. But that film has changed. The officials of this country are not on the boat with the rest of us. They have settled in on the amulet near Tortula, while the public is seen in years of boating against Icelandic landstones. The Ministers who have spoken about the continuation of the people of the land in currency and in the interest of the Icelandic crown have kept their possessions in foreign tax documents; they are in coverts, and the rest are in the seas. In this regard, the European public needs to watch at the same time as 90 civilized countries under OECD's leadership now try to eradicate the integrated efforts of societies and tax prevention because tax countries undermine income resources, prosperity of society, the mismanagement of the rules of the game, and thus bring down the public's standards of living. This will see other countries. But the government of Iceland can't see that. The nation has watched the unveiling of the two - skind people and the moral failures of Icelandic rulers, their falsehoods, their hairs, and their half - truths. A former prime minister was at the bargaining table, where the demands were agreed, and at the same time he and his wife were disguised. On the contrary, while he has fallen away, he is replaced by a member of a group member who has publicly approved of the actions of his predecessor and sees nothing wrong with them, says that there is a need for money in every part of the country to be κ, and having money in Iceland is complex. In other words, it is being replaced by a government label, but its contents remain unchanged. And there is so much panic that the proselytism groups and the forwarding squads have not even taken steps to discuss these changes, let alone to agree with them. Two cabinet ministers who have owned resources in the tax industry are still in the government. The minister of finance has provided explanations that cannot resist the available data, has, in his own hand, signed contracts and lawyers that show that his explanation is not correct. [[Up front.]] No, a respectable president. The greatest political project today would all be better in the hands of others than this government, especially the urgent task of restoring trust and reconciliation in our society. Bountiful efforts to put a new label on the government, a new label on defective goods, will not change anything. So serious is the confidentiality that has become with the nation and the council that nothing we know will be compared to anything we know in Icelandic politics. A true violation of the law. As long as these people are in control, there will never be a healing in Icelandic society. Icelandic people's requirement for a new beginning. She has a requirement to give her own commission to the political parties she trusts. Therefore, we have an obligation to respond to the nation's call and to march right into the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u27	V.E.G. President. I want to start my speech by quoting a young woman, Hlín Magnúsdóttir, who wrote today: 'It is important for people to be aware of their democratic rights and to use it when they feel the need, for example, by protests, by writing letters, articles, or other things. But the loudest are not necessarily right. No one is a nation and a public will is rarely or never. The call for elections in the East does not necessarily mean that they should be elections. For example, it is also a loud part of the nation who wants to limit their humanitarian work and the flight of refugees. Maybe there'll be people in the East sometime, even if I don't hope to. But no matter what happens to many eggs in the General Assembly Hall, it's not right. The election will be rushed by social pressure. That's good. A respectable president. It's been three years since the one listed here came into the General Assembly. We've got a lot of issues in the three years we've got, all of them. Senators sitting in this hall solved. We have had good results, which are visible in the community. There are countless factors that encourage us in our work every day. Seeing the success of the people in the country for the good of hard work is a fine reward. Big deal and small stuff. But then Sunday came up. There have been difficult days since then. During such days, 15 minutes in politics can be much too slow but also too fast. It says that it was three years ago that the head of the Superintendent Party and the Independence Party took over. That day began many different assignments. Then, when we look at the situation, such as the end of the week, there are many things that come to mind. All the work done, what's going to happen? Some have claimed in today's talks that ministers are not doing any good. Officials and experts do all the work, so it doesn't matter who controls the country. Or yes, it matters. Just as long as it's not those classes that have more Congress today and they're in cooperation. What, then, is the debate today if it doesn't matter who's in the government? We've been working on both the bigger parts and the smaller parts of the council and we've been going through here. We've all done it together, and we've done our best. There have been many, some even funny illustrations, that cooperation between the two groups that yesterday went back together to carry on with the work that began in April three years ago. Yes, it may be convenient to read only the appropriate chapters of the book. But as I look over the week, I know that the advance party has taken a big step in the direction people in the community called out for. Today, we have the authority to make today become a vendetta for our work. We can make today the beginning of the year when the Ministers of this government continue running the issues they are working for the election in the fall. We can work on them together. The information that started this strange time, the documents that have come in, we should thank them. But there are yet to be seen. We will have to put our weight on the scales so that everything will come up on the table. When we talk about building trust in our community, all of us are to lie down on one, including the other. with the demand that the government tax manager receive the data and be able to investigate whether the law has been committed. Before the fall, we are to work to clear the atmosphere. We have the tools to do that. We have institutions for it, and we have institutions that have the goal of working against such things, investigating them, and working them out. Yesterday, I met some young people here at the Assembly Hall. One of the group asked me: "When you're old and when you're asked how your life was, what will you say? I can't get over it today. Every day we make the right and the wrong choices, but at the end of the day, we need to be sure that we have taken more rights. I want to be able to say that I have made more right decisions. Today's decision may lead us to continue working together on the goal of doing good to our nation, that we can clean up the atmosphere to open up better practices, both in the community as well as at the General Assembly, and that we can do the work available for the council to then enter the election. We can do all of this. So it is rather strange to listen to today that people who have proposed the proposal to have it confirmed that good works will get through. It is rather strange to hear this on the first day of a new government when they have not even been given the opportunity to confirm it to them. That's why I say we should reject the proposal proposed to the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u28	V.E.G. President. It has been about three years since the current administrative sector took over the management board in Iceland, a commission was received from nearly 100 of you. The voters who trusted us with the government of this country. In the past, many good things have happened, first under the command of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, and from this day forth, we will be under the Sigurður of the son of Ingi Jóhannsson. I believe that in the coming 36 months, we will work hard to fulfill the promises and expectations we gave to the whole nation, especially those who trusted us in the administrations here, for good works in behalf of our country and nation. There has been a great deal of success in those days. Here was an enormously successful correction of the homes who have improved the debt of homes, especially the children and those who live alone. The correction was most helpful to those with moderate and smaller levels and has changed the place of many homes in the country. Stability, such as meritability, has never been, or perhaps once before in the republic's history, as long and as beneficial as it has been this time. Asepticitis has been observed. Even though many have tried to corrupt that success, AIDS has been able to control in Iceland during that time. At the same time, social equations have increased, and we hear it, and we see in international comparison more than in Iceland. It is large that some classes in Iceland have said that he is really too much. There are many things to be done ahead, including housing. The basics and issues in this area will be useful for young people who are either buying for the first time or who want to get into rented homes, sheltered bills that will benefit those who are lazy and have a minimum of time left between their hands. There is a bill in progress based on the Peter Committee's work called on a review of the social security system, which will bring about the good, simple system, and give people new opportunities for professional ability assessments. We are also in the middle of abdicating the currency capital. The work has been done so that we have received such grades from experts in the matter of doing so half that it would be enough. Under these circumstances, it is not possible to cancel. We're not people running from finished jobs just because we don't keep them hanging over our heads. We want to finish what was entrusted to us. Lately, I've met a lot of people, as we all do, on the road, through community media, and everyone's got the same wish they've made: In every town, don't stop working together, in every town, finish things you're working on, in every town, finish this term together. An election in these circumstances would completely destroy all these people, and they have asked me to the longest words that we will not stop the administrative work but will continue to do so and will finish this terms with - a lot of them have been candidates, sharp. þm. Kristján L. Möller, there's so much of them, but there's also been people I know to be in other categories. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] But since the Conspiracy is making noise, I have to admire their company. I admire that group, who are in charge of demanding elections, insisting on throwing themselves into the deep pool, although below what they stand almost no water. They want to dive into the deep pool, although there is no water there. I admire that determination. [[Up front.]] Before long, I'm sure the United States will have the opportunity to jump for rocks. That time will come. But let us be patient. [[Up front.]] Good Icelanders. Good Icelanders. Senators. One example I'd like to mention. If the course of a former government group had been followed in Iceland for the last 36 months, we would now be paying 26 billion each year for the growth of foreign commitments committed by humans, and we would have 208 billion in debt, which we do not have today. On the contrary, the way that had gone by this government has resulted in a better way in the outer position of this society and in this state than it has been for 50 years. Will we sacrifice it by going into campaigns and elections, which are premature? No. Will we respond to the commission given three years ago to four years ago by less than 100 you? a man? No, we're not going to do that. We're going to stick to our policy. We're going to finish the big things that are on our minds because we think, and I'm convinced that the people will find out, that there's no one better to be trusted than the present government part to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u29	Madam President. My fellow Americans. The bottom's reached. In a few days, the nation has lost its image in all the inhabited earth. A former prime minister deceived his people when he stepped off the throne of a minister and did not even have the right or the right to address his people and in effect feel that he does not owe them an apology. The new prime minister said in the conference's symposium that the tax change for his predecessors was okay because it was so hard to have money in Iceland and somewhere they needed to be. And he approved not only his secret but also the conflict of interest, and he made strong comments that people dare to discuss the matter. The same presumptuous attitude appeared to us when the new social security board of emigrants, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnler's Gunnlaugsson, the ladder government, was created quickly and presented in the stairs at the General Assembly, where the minister of finance spoke down to the government opposition and to the people of the country with great superiority. Nothing was changed, nothing new, the same people but changed booths. V.E.G. The Environment Minister spoke of the general public and government opposition and likened it to naughty children and said that all demands had been met. I regret the people in this room who are talking about being likened to children. That deserves much better. And the new foreign minister says in his first talk, "Religious stability has followed the root of the last days. " Well, look, it's all about stability. While preparing for the next election, are we going to see that the Ministers and the Africans are on the nation's salary? No one in the board has condemned the behavior or actions of these people. People, don't we all definitely watch the same Castle Show? According to a survey conducted yesterday, 65% have little confidence in the prime minister and similar to the highest. Minister of Bjarni son of Benediktsson. So these men believe they are willing to handle the nation's affairs. Neither should we overlook that if it had not been the face of a former prime minister in the world's major media, it would have been the face of a financial minister, for this is an isolated case. Other countries respond with research, and we have received reports that Cameron, who was carrying pennies, is putting all his data on the table and all the information. Likely, he is forced to resign. But what do they do here? In small Iceland, who is in great difficulty, officials feel that there is no reason to resign and give democracy a chance. They are afraid to renew their commission. Nor should we forget the matters that have come up with the present government. Two other ministers, tops. Ministers of Illugi Gunnarsson and former Ministers of Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristuns, who, of course, went under pressure from the chair, have found dishonesty. This government is corrupt, and the people have shown that they do not trust it, but the ones involved do not seem to understand the seriousness of the situation, which is, in fact, most devastating. Earlier this morning, many government ministers came up and told us that they had to finish their business and ask for help under a mistrust plan. In their opinion, no one seems to be able to handle the upcoming tasks except the 50 percent share. Of course, it's nonsense. No one is indispensable, either in the work that needs to be done here at the door or in other places. They talk about economic stability, housing and insurance. You have had three years to work on your policies, but now it may be clear that the government has become so important that the matter has been submitted. Some of them are no small issues, like canceling the insurance policy. Madam President. This is a home bridge. It will not be a reality to the government. That's the bullshit you're putting on a table for the people. Secretary of finance says that the situation was never so bright today. In what world is the greatest. Secretary of finance? Where's your repentance? Where is humility? The moral standards of the most powerful people are being discussed, not legal issues. Dearest nation. Are these the people the best qualified to see to it that those in charge are examined and that they are fully worthy of handling some form of taxes? I say no. V.E.G. The minister of social affairs does not have the support of the independents to complete the building project but is still encouraging her to complete that matter. It will likely be able to support the next government for fine works if it reaches a new authority from the voters. They're in a state of emergency, and the Minister is setting up new institutions, but he doesn't take over the suit. Of course, health care is very dear to the nation, so the government and health - care minister respond by increasing their personalization in the basic service, in the health care sector, despite the repeated desire of a large percentage of the people in the country to be part of our share of health care. The conduct of older citizens and desperate people, no speech can be given without referring to the achievements of the government. Madam President. Research and media are important, and we need to strengthen the State Radio further rather than try to break down the Agency, as existing government groups have done and have not completed their work in this regard. We need to ask ourselves as a nation how land and what kind of wood we want. Do we want this to be the government of rich people who put their priority on lowering the fishing costs and not extending the wealth taxes, which consider personalization in the health - care system the solution instead of increasing the use of cohesion? Not me. Would the nation want a government to sign off on conduct, as noted by a former prime minister? Would the nation want a government that states that the former minister remains a senator? Does the nation want a government that's going to sign off to the rich? The democracy must restore and trust in politics, and all of us need to renew our commission with voters. They are to be in their position under these circumstances to make a decision, not to make a group of 38 members of independence and forward. We need an election right away. My fellow Americans, show the government that you do not accept the immorality the government leaders offer you and us. [[The president calls.]] Say what you say, don't be beaten in obedience. The people's reputation and credibility are at stake.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u30	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. In this country, there have been serious events during the last days that have caused public confidence in us politicians, and it is therefore vital that we put our work in the judgment of voters as soon as possible so that we will establish democracy and acknowledge the need for the political parties to renew their authority. I'm not afraid to have that meeting with the voters. Also, there is an urgent need for us to work together and to cooperate in measures to prevent a part of the nation from getting away with paying their share in the collective contribution we have agreed on in order to keep this society going, the health system, the education system, the welfare system, the transport system, etc. Events of the last days have revealed the importance of the media in a democratic society. A test for whether democracy works is that they will be allowed to operate unrepeatable but, of course, within the ethics of the press organization and at the same time realize that they must be careful and objective. In recent days, people have gathered in the East to protest after the show of so - called Panama documents was shown in Kast Light. They're all political parties. The government responded quickly, and prime minister resigned. Furthermore, the government has responded by announcing an election within a few months. That's what I think makes sense. I also believe that it is reasonable to think that there is a good thing to do when it comes to elections. If a mistrust proposal is adopted today, it must be chosen within 45 days. First, such elections would disrupt the necessary democratic setting, space, and discussion required by the nation to select the president of June 25th. In addition, it is very important for the political parties, based on the red card they have received from voters with the requirements for moralization, transparency and democratic open process, etc., that they can have time and space to select people on their lists. It won't take long, but it'll still take time. For example, in my category, the Independence category, as well as in other categories, I think it is very important that we choose open candidates in the lists, with open re-elections that are widely available but are not forced to enter the so-called production process because we don't have time to hold on to the test. It is not a democratic method, especially in the current political situation. The project is primarily to restore trust in Icelandic politics and, as it were, the highest. The minister of state said this morning to minimise the damage that Iceland's reputation has caused by some targeted action being done in its current Ministry. For example, like Sweden and Danir, we need to examine our banking systems. It has been found that a bank in that country still works to get money into a tax place for its customers. Have the information caused a wide variety of normal. Therefore, we need to strengthen the government's tax control, the government tax manager, and the tax economist. We need all these cases on the surface, we need to stand up against the fact that there are two nations here, people who are paying their due in accord with our democratic community contracts, and those who do not, and who want a free ride. Wanting a free ride is really incomprehensible. Why is it that people with enough money want a free ride? I find it difficult to understand what goes on in the mind of such ones when they want to add to the burdens of others and to let go of their burdens. The financial injustice I want to call it when men hide their money to avoid paying to the community is a case number one that we Icelandic politicians and all Icelanders have to deal with and finish. We need endurance, determination, etc. Because this will take time. We need to be careful. Case two is to protect the stability we have achieved in our economy. The wealth has been thrown out with rest and has been for all this terms. Icelanders are paying off their debts quickly and definitely, and this will improve the interests of all of us so much in the years to come. The stability and scope here we must use to respond to the pleas of tens of thousands of people to restore the health system here on the country. It is also a priority, one that can't stand waiting. The election is short. I want all classes to have time to prepare well so that we can all offer a list selected according to the democracy and in a transparent and open way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u31	V.E.G. President. Good Icelanders. These last days have been difficult for all of us. No one has missed the fact that the nation has been disappointed and angry. We understand and respect it. Now that we are faced with a lack of trust, the new government is being declared to the Supreme Government. I believe the prime minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson should consider only what we have been dealing with. The nation witnessed the supreme witness. The then prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, was asked about his financial ties with a tax station in the RUSK Castlight Show. It doesn't have to be traced any further. A series of events that we all know began, resulting in the resignation of the Supreme Court. former prime minister. A new government has now been formed, with President Ingi Jóhannsson winning, with the backing of the House of Independence and the forwarding Party, to work in the autumn to come. During the past few days, the government has felt that the entire government should be removed and further directed to the head of the Independence Party. The government has put confidence in a new government and requires that the election be started immediately. On the demand of government opposition, the members of the government have said that it is not easy for itself to enter the election even now. However, it is clear that there would be very short time for elections and groups, each of them, to have very little time for a human supply list and for policy development. As a result, the results would not be so democratic if they chose after 45 days as when they started in the fall. It is important that the process is open and democratic and that voters have time to learn what the classes have to say. In the fall of elections, the requirement to speed up elections is met in the most responsible and reasonable way possible. Then there are elections that are important to allow space, and it is important that we be successful in choosing a president as we have demonstrated. Good Icelanders. It is vital that the nation's trust be restored. It is also important to review what went wrong, to learn from it, and to make adjustments in the future. Still, it must be given time. It is never successful to make dramatic decisions in agitation or in anger. The vital work done on the part of an independent party and the forwarding of the spring of 2013 are clear to us. Long ago, there are still other very important matters that we believe are necessary for land and nation to reach at sea. These include health care, transportation, and housing. It's working to change national pensions, and I think it's extremely important to get a conclusion on how we make it possible for our young people to have their own housing. It is unacceptable that a whole generation of young people can only see to it that they will always be tenants. Remuneration and borrowing are required in such a way that if a person has the ability to pay large amounts of rent, he is equally able to pay the same from his own loans for housing. In fact, there are a number of cases where borrowing is not rated, even less than they have been paying for rent. It's totally unacceptable, and it's our job to get it going. What a responsibility it is to evaluate the situation of the entire family's interests properly! The government that has now been formed has been guided by it. Hence, a decision has been made to complete an important national assignment and then to make an election in the fall. I'm not going to go down into all the ugly things that have been said these past few days, as far as I'm concerned. But I don't consider it to be an advantage to hit a table and threaten that no political issue will succeed. Where is democracy then? The government has more democratic things, and according to them, it is to be accomplished. I can't believe the government's intention is to make sure that the council will be taken hostage and all cases will be stopped. I believe, however, that all of us will unite in allowing the important issues that have come forward, and then we are going to vote in balance in the autumn.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u32	A respectable president. I'm going to start by thanking you for the present time. Prime Minister for taking up all this discussion. It's good for you. But I don't trust this government. Only one of it has left its mark on the last days. She's got to step down. We, the Icelandic people, are to be allowed to vote again. The late prime minister has lied. He has not apologized for anything other than a bad interview. He says he didn't do anything wrong, it's just a relative term what's a tax host and what's not. His comment on Sweden's tax cover was thrown out. V.E.G. A financial minister has agreed to have associated with a relative. It has the highest. The Minister of the Interior, too, is done through her husband. Nor have they seen reason to apologize. Tax sea has come to hide and avoid natural taxes, natural taxes that all the rest of society have to pay. Other current ministers have expressed confidence in one another and, of course, themselves in order to continue. A respectable president. There are bad things in this whole matter. But there is one thing that is good and very enlightened, though it is difficult to understand, it is that present and residual Ministers have informed the public about their moral standards, about their effectiveness with one another, about their love of power, about the power insurance of the forward and independence classes, and that they have hatched by technically legal means of having money in the tax industry and then sort of place the point afterwards. However, these same people, the Ministers of this government, put it on all other citizens to pay their taxes and fees here. I distrust the people who in such a surreal way defend this situation in one word but then say in the other: We do not leave the country in so much need of us. The word on the Panamas has shown it so clear and so crystal clear that there are different guidelines depending on who you are in our community. Certainly, those who do not have money in their communities do not need that government. It would be ridiculous to have the highest. The secretary of finance would continue to take the lead, and all the rest of the Ministers will only continue to be a cheerleader after him because these are the people who have defended this situation. It has been observed that the late prime minister could secretly select another coin from the one with whom we live. It is important to Iceland's reputation, and it is suggested that execution can continue on a credible course that the government will immediately depart. A respectable president. Should we ignore the fact that this town's been lying to you? Should we ignore the fact that those in authority have come to a double moral position? One tax leg for himself on the African islands and another for ordinary people who only offer the tax steps that these same people have set for them. Should we ignore this because the projects we're waiting for are so big that we can't afford to be decent, that we can't afford morality? Can't the people afford to demand honesty from these people? Yes, indeed. That's all we can afford. That's all we have left. Then it's this pathetic government terror that we can't afford this, that we're just gonna have to squeeze in the corner and wait for what's going to happen. Where else in society would someone guru it if it was said, "Yes, hear me offend you?" I hear what you're saying, but I'm not gonna stop it right now because I have to finish something first. I'm gonna continue to offend you for a while because I have to finish up here a little first. [[The point is, it's best for you.]] It is by far the best thing for you to let me continue to offend you. It's natural to be so fucked up that it can't go anywhere. It's not an offer. This is not at the National Assembly of the Icelanders to offer their people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u33	V.E.G. President. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to take this opportunity and wish for the highest power. The new prime minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson's campaign and congratulations, and he wishes to be the highest. The Minister of State for Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir in her office and in her provincial affairs I would like to repeat because I don't think it will help. Then I don't think I can say much more about the government that was formed yesterday on the ruins of the first one that was shaken. Yeah, they say a week is a long time in politics. This week has been special in Icelandic politics. She will often be mentioned and discussed. The government took on good farms, and she's had her luck. Economics, among other things, have been well balanced over a 75% reduction in global prices for oil, the total number of tourists, and the influx of currency, the arrival of macroil, and many more. Then there's not much more to be listed. This week that included the collapse of meetings, I would like to state that on Tuesday, much more was done in the Generalis Hall for the breaches and new elections. I can only see that all except members of the Independence Party and perhaps not even all members of the Independence Party would have voted with such a suggestion. The government is damaged, the government is the head of a forward squad and an independent party. V.E.G. The former prime minister was forced to resign himself and thus his ministry. This government is subject to death. But now, in a subtle way, it tries to keep power so as not to lose control and then decorate itself with a task that is no problem to negotiate at the Council to complete, such as the release of a pensioner or an auctioner in the front of an African penitentiary. If so, may I remind you that there is probably more of a town's fresher than there is in it. I'm sorry, this government I have no confidence in. I don't trust her to follow up the constitutions because it's already been screwed up. This is especially wrong with the advancement party's responsibility with the loyal support of independents who have never wanted to do anything about it. I predict that the government won't last long and that even the dark plans and promises of elections in the fall will be betrayed. But I think, as the head of the House of forwards said, there will be so much going to happen that the government will be in trouble. She will also face even greater problems with the people of the country and will be driven away. I've been thinking that with members of Congress, which is especially true of members of the government, should have put the matter in the court of voters, and we should have chosen as soon as possible. This view is supported by a large number of members of the board of directors, and I wonder why. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir Conspiracydótttir and what. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. I state that I respect the honesty of these senators, and when people say what they think but do not let the government work and the government's hands bind themselves to what they can say. These senators have said that they should have chosen immediately. Hv. paritaprevir Díddur Thorhallsson has gone further, saying that his boss, who will be the second to talk after me, the former Supreme Court. Prime Minister Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, should resign from the prehumanity of the parish and report to the council. In the media, conclusions flow from the northeastern district. 1st. That's the north side. "Appreciating Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, of the townspeople and the heads of the parish in Akureyri, in the north, in the River Valley, and of others who have sent challenges to trouble. A senator should resign, at the same time, that the government should be removed, and this should be done for the election. In the Northern Parliament, Odvili, said that he is the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Minister of the Interior must go, too. And then the top of that came to us yesterday in the media. For a time, there were two news reports side by side with one website, one for a talk. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnlason, on the other hand, at the highest. - Bjarni. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, What did it say? By permission of the President: According to former Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson, in view of society's discussion of the connection between politicians with their nationalities in taxes, there is no difference between the Wintris language and Bjarni False & Co. ▪ If people are merely considering this to be a prince's affair, those who were somehow involved with such communities had relatives who already have, that they should give peace to the politicians while the matter is being interrupted, no, there is no difference, to be told by Sigmundur Davíð in Iceland today. And what did he say? Secretary of finance on this? By permission of the President: I think it may be safe to say that there is a major difference between being a minister not having any such company close to him and there is no question about any conflict of interest. I think it can be said, and now I'm just expressing my opinion, when I look over the stage and watch the news, trying to look into what men are trying to pull out of this...- and then comes the raisin in the hot dog end from the top. Secretary of finance, with President's permission, they stop at the same time that the government was working on their solution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This, of course, is a fundamental difference; they answered Bjarni. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Because of what? A senator and a chief. The next time I am followed by a former prime minister of Davíð Gunnlaugsson, I hope he will better explain to us what is being quoted here and the disagreement between these ministers and those points, that there is a big difference between their activities in foreign society. [[The president calls.]] [[To the point: Time is up.]] What did he say? Seafood and agricultural ministers? [[To the point: Time is up.]] It's a president who controls it, not why. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u34	Sólrún to the conference hall. The President's asking for some quiet time in the conference hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u35	A respectable president. It is presented here by an untrustworthy proposal to the successful government of the Expensive Party and the Independence Party, and it is hardly because of the government's performance. The success of the government in less than three years is such that no one with what is called can argue otherwise than that it is outstanding in countless fields. [[Foreground: Apologize...]] Others have followed the many progressive steps that have taken place in recent years. The government situation can be noted in a field where there has been no major improvement in the past three years. [[Up front.]] That did not come about by accident. It was created because humans took decisive and individual action. True, members of the government's last terms have claimed that, including the U.S. To this day, that they have always intended to do similar things. The problem is that they spoke in a completely different direction and certainly did other things. In a short talk, I have neither the time to expound the success of the government over the past three years nor the government that sat here from 2009 to 2013 should have been different. Both devices have a long time. So I'm simply going to proselytize what was the argument between the government's stand for its proposal to distrust the government today. Over the past few years, facts about the actions of the government have not been involved in much, nor have the facts about the events of the present time. Why would that be? Yes, it is because the government knows that for them the facts are not good for sale. Their political products, not just for years and even decades in some cases, are anger, resentment, suspicion, anger, and even hatred. And yes, also quite a bit of hopelessness and fear. Fear knows them well itself. Fear defined the government of the country between 2009 and 2013. Fear of doing what had to be done, fear of a foreign government's communications, fear of the hedge fund, fear of action in debt, but, above all, fear of the goal proclaimed by Einarsson during the Council of the Year. You see here the fear of awakening the spirit of the people and moving them to evaluate themselves correctly. You see, it was a government that was conscious of their own authority on anger, suspicion, and resentment. To them, economic collapse was a political opportunity. The greater the anger and suspicion, the greater the situation of the 2009 governments to 2013. In this, as with so many others, the government was against the government that has worked here for the past three years, a government that offered hope, promised great things, and stood by them. [[Exploited in: the EU?]] A government with faith in the land and the people and the courage to make major decisions. Governments firmly established, activeness, action, biogradation, greater equations, and promises of an even better future based on a solid foundation. [["And honesty."]] The government now wants to rely again on anger as a product of sale. It must be said that there have been times when political movements have gone quite far in different countries and in different times to rely on anger. But it has always, always, ended badly when power is based on anger. This is where the government stand demanding that the Ministry of the Sigurding of the Sigurður of Ingi, the son of Jóhannsson, be removed on the first day because of anger. Today, members of the government have demanded and demanded this, but above all, they are demanding their power again, demanding the authority that they have never accepted to lose. [[Up front.]] The real root of their own anger. Here is a choice between a government based on age, progress, or a government opposition that causes fear, anger, and hopelessness. [[For example: And honesty?]] A respectable president. In the face of these choices, the Allied Council must defend the government of Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u36	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollsson, former prime minister of the country, said that the lack of confidence in the regime could hardly have existed because of the results of the government. Yeah, that's exactly why, on account of the failure of the government on behalf of Iceland's major wealthy people, on behalf of the breakthrough. From the first day that the head of the Framework and Independence Party took over the presidents of the spring days of 2013, she put a armor on that side by ex-coping the resource tax and relieving the money paid by the former government into the busiest department in the country. In those days, she felt her steps and her walk. It is now three years later that the overwhelming majority of the people want to see their way into the sunset. She's supposed to leave, and it's due for the election immediately. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] The government has shown, as individual ministers, that they are not worthy of trust. But I would like to stay in the presence of certain prarkish factors when it comes to claiming that elections are not the means to be won, but to shoot them until the autumn. I believe that elections in Iceland should take place in the spring, not in the fall. This summer we use for funding and pages to form key outlines. Then the people have the right to give such government recommendations; health institutions, schools, and people involved. This should not be done in hand gels. That's why the election in the fall is a serious misbehavior. It's much, much more sensible to do the election now. Then it says the highest. During his first course of action, the nation's prime minister, we know that priority number one is dismissed. What do you need to defuse? What for? To move money to and from, in and out of Iceland? Is that the top priority of the forward party? Is this old business priority all the streets since the collapse of 2008 that this is not supposed to be a major priority? Of course not! Here is another reason for accepting the current government's argument that it still needs months on the throne. We're not going to decommission the seas due to a dire necessity and we're the weapons of Iceland unless the conditions are right. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Then I'd like to say this, top dog. President, top priority in Iceland is not a waste of currency. They are neither good nor bad, but they are our weapons. They're our weapons. Priorities in Iceland today are health care, health care, and health care. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] The government has declared today, individual ministers, that it is certainly a priority. What's on her edge? They're offering out the health care business in Reykjavík. There's a plan, a further plan for marketing there. I agree with the Department of Social Affairs that priority matters also include housing, but I accept the suggestions found in regulations and the current minister's hearing and government to place poor people in Iceland's third-rate housing, in cheap third-rate housing with limited sunlight and access to the disabled. I'm waiting for this. I have to say, I'm concerned that the labor movement is not better off on that watch. The bills of the Council need a lot of thought before we finish it. We're not supposed to evict the politicians from this room. All those who have a bearing are ready for the election now. Those with little direction or none must accept such things. That's why I say, at the highest. President: It's not just a requirement that goes off and echoes in society all about elections right away, telling us we shouldn't go to Congress until the fall. That's not an option. We're supposed to vote this spring. We're not supposed to vote in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u37	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and wish you the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of state to happiness with the office and wish them good luck. It's a little special to do as soon as there's a mistrust problem, but that's not the case, and it's not the first mistrust that's been brought to the Allied Council, nor will it be the last. However, it gives me notice, although I have not examined all mistrust proposals, and I think I can claim that the tone of the music is the one that sounds. paritaprevir Consider the example of Páll Árnason, who started his discussion. Now I completely disagree. A senator on the proposal and will vote against it as everyone knows, but I think to approach it. The senator and the tone he struck was respectable. Now I am not one of those who think they are in the position of speaking on behalf of the people and who have never fully understood why so many people can speak on behalf of the people. I know my people, I think very well, it's made up of different persons with different opinions, and that's how it's always gonna be. But I believe, more dignified President, that those who have been watching us and critical of us are, among other things, criticizing that there is too much extreme conflict and a personal knot. I see why. paritaprevir Páll Árnason, speaking of other matters, is to be discussed. That's where I agree. Senator. A respectable president. I don't think it's the people's will that this institution is so that it always lies between the rods in strife. I think it's a requirement for us, naturally, that we get together on a procedure so that we can get together in the important interests of the nation. Here we are not talking about a big issue. We're talking about a few months till or from when we're going to the election. I don't think it's going to require a very harsh argument, although the nature of the matter according to the circumstances, we need to reach a conclusion on that matter. I hope it's okay for us to finish something that obviously has to be done. I don't like it if we're here to talk about taking off your seas as little as possible. It has been said that this is not really being done because the equipment is expected. That is one of the things we need to discuss. It's my opinion, and it's key to our having a national response device for reasons that don't have any reason to go over, it should be so obvious. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] A respectable president. We are in the position of an Icelandic nation that, if handled properly, we can pay off the debt of the State and become in debt to a nation in a relatively few years. We were together for a bill on public financial matters. What's the beat of that? What is the basic theme of it? It is to think in the long run, to be in the place of which we compare ourselves. They make long-term plans, including, as in our case, to pay off debt. Do other nations agree in politics? No. What about political conflicts? Yeah. This, however, is a foundation in terms of government. It would be very tragic, more dignified, if we were to enter the election without having a long-term financial programme, as we all agreed in this hall that we were going to do. The health and affairs of young people are another matter that we will have to consider to be doing in before we enter the election. Foreign law is different. I think these matters are that if we sit down and cover them, we should be able to work together to complete them. Then we will naturally choose. One of the reasons why we're discussing this is a matter that we haven't discussed on the depth. What is it? It's the leftovers. There's a leak as far as I know from the media from one office. They're even talking about the names of 600 people. We've seen dozens of them. They've been working hard, like the highest level. Of course, a minister of finance went through his speech, took only a fraction of what has been done, cut down tax reforms and tax frauds on the part of an African society, but I felt that it would be irresponsible, after that information had been presented, if we returned wealth at the council. I think it's worth one Mass to have us sit over that matter. It's been down to bed. committees for less reason. A respectable president. This is a matter that we must work with other nations. It seems that it was primarily through a bank in Luxembourg, the nuclear states of the European Union. The one who is now president of the European Commission was the prime minister of Luxembourg for many years. We take almost all of our regulations on the financial market from the European Union. So that is where we need to look at what we want to do in these matters. Only, a respectable president, at the end of the election because of credibility, elections, and constant government. I just want to talk about it. No country we would like to compare ourselves with is without a stable government. All the countries that we want to compare with are in a constant state of government. If we really want to go that way - and I'm not in any way minimizing the very natural response of the public to the news that came up here - but if we're going to walk in a way that we don't vote every time as a government or a few politicians recommend in their polls, we're talking about a fundamental change in the government we know. As far as I know, a respectable president, it's nowhere in the world, at least not where we compare ourselves, that there's a general rule. We know what things were like during the last term. We knew what the measurements were like then. We know it from other lands. I believe, as measured, the President of Obama is the most unpopular president in American history. The same with the president of France, and there are other factors. I encourage people when they discuss these matters that we think this in this context because everything we do makes an example. We disagree over many things, we disagree on many things, but these fundamentals need to be balanced. There's no other way to approach it, Mr. Honorable President. Here we are talking about a few months until or from when we're gonna vote. We're discussing whether or not we're going to finish a case that I say on the ground, we're all agreed on. The only thing that matters, a respectable president, is national interest. They're much bigger than all of us who are in here. None of us are bigger than that. This workplace is the nature of the situation in a temporary way. We'll be here for a long time. We need to keep in mind this and that we are working for the nation. What we do makes an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u38	A respectable president. V.E.G. In his speech, the prime minister said something that it was not surprising that the government would want to get the government out of it. That would be her part. I feel like they're talking in this room, including. Yeah. A senator who was before me, like a mistrustmaker just fell from the sky. As if we had nothing better to do and as if nothing happened here in the last few weeks and days. I'd like to state that we in a short future are not used in politics to destroy a private government. We've always been willing to contribute well, but often you've been terrified of how the government has behaved, but that has not given rise to distrust. So it is not that in some aspect of the government's mistrust proposal, it arose. It is presented because a new government, established on the ruins of the former government, has no trust. She doesn't speak bluntly. We do not know if it is generally against, for example, that ministers have societies. Whether it is normal for some members of society to keep their possessions in a tax charge. We don't know what the government's going to do about it, if anything. We do not hear agents apologize for having arranged matters, so it must be a border on world record. I haven't heard how the government, the new one, is going to rebuild Iceland's reputation or whether it's over the top of the list. All I hear is that such an important project is in progress that no one can finish it except a government government. Then I'll ask you: Won't you have to trust the voters to appreciate who you can trust? Or is it that voters may not be trusted, either? Is there no one you can trust but the people sitting here on the bench behind me? Of course not! They have an election to announce, a respectable president. This government is incompetent.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u39	A respectable president. This is a very important discussion today. Although we have applied ourselves in a discussion to underscore the seriousness of the matter and the importance of understanding the serious situation that has come up with us, there is no evidence of this. We hear no apology for the position that the greater part has called upon the nation an unprecedented reputation on a global level and an unprecedented political crisis in this country. On the contrary, we hear no promise of elections in the fall. On the contrary, we hear a list of long promises of eternity that are obviously not about to be dissolved in the cooperation of these two categories, such as disintegration of insurance. We have nothing left in our hands after this discussion about the best will of the Commission to understand the election immediately and that it will be launched again. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's a concern, and that's why I'm encouraging the executives to support this proposal for distrust.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u40	Mr. President. After this discussion, two nations live in this country: a small group of rich Icelanders, including those who have possessions in taxes, as well as the ordinary people who live and work in Icelandic society and play by their rules of law. There has become a complete trust between these two nations, and nothing we have heard in discussions today suggests that the government is able to change them and that the public's trust in governments is renewed. It's serious for democracy in this country. Since democracy is the foundation of our community, it remains in my mind after the discussion that the right way is for the government to go away and the public to have the opportunity to express their opinion in general elections. In this way we can rebuild trust in society, trust in democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u41	A respectable president. This is a great deal of great discussions at the beginning of the government. In other words, there were two different uses. On the one hand, members of the administrative body have spoken of how we can truly work together, and we can certainly complete important tasks, and people have an understanding that it is very important to complete something of great importance to the nation and much more important than to go into an uncertain position, to choose within 45 days. Then there are others who have gone quite far, arguing that there is nothing else to be done but to choose. Their reasoning is base in view of the other evidence that has been presented. Therefore, I would like to encourage all members of the hall to listen to the voices that have come from both my parts and most of them that we can truly work together for national goods, and we both agree on the suggestions presented here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u42	A respectable president. In our discussion today, we have heard members of the government oversee the need to be the ones who can end the issue and the people who can work for a national gain. There has not been one member of the board who apologized for the appearance of elected representatives on the list of people who have possessions in their communities. We have not experienced any humility or any apology for this condition, our present crisis. In itself, it is sad and difficult, and we all know it. We are all aware of that, both government opposers and government officials. But what has not happened today is that men have found ways to get together, to build up. That is why there is no other option than to support both proposals, that the board be removed, and that the election be completed immediately. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u43	President. I'm sorry I didn't understand why the current financial minister wasn't ready to change his seat when the Minister's chair was being replaced by this new government that we declare trust in. I would like to express confidence in the government even if only because of the fact that it was the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson is still the secretary of the tax business. I don't understand why the government doesn't see how incompetent it is. You can't just take the school off with the highest power. The secretary of the budget of Benediktsson as the minister of the taxes and the financial sector. It's as simple as that, Mr. President. Then I have to say, I find it very boring, my fellow members, that no one from the government has done so much that apologized to the nation for the ridiculous theater we've been given in these past few days. [[The president calls.]] Your shame may be to participate in this with as much efficiency as you have seen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u44	A respectable president. What we have experienced over the past few days and weeks is a complete humiliation of the council and the nation. It is highly and highly regarded, and what the executives have to say to us is that, according to the Board of Directors of the Council, they are going to a huge campaign for nearly all the French governments of Iceland. That's what I think is to build a roof over every man, and that's how the health system is altered, and that's the way it is with one group after another. This is such nonsense, this case of the government parties. That's the vague timing of elections. The government speaks of a wide range of projects but does not mention the greatest project to consult with the nation right away because there has been a total of serious confidential talk here. No one's saying an apology. No remorse comes from one man. No one wants to respond to the unprecedented situation here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The lack of confidence in society is real, and we have to vote inside. [[The president calls.]] The importance of breaching a council and launching an election is real.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u45	Mr. President. We vote on whether to accept distrust of a government that has more part in the council. This is a time when the rules that we have agreed on, how to deal with situations like those created, will come to us. It is good to know that the assembly is the right platform to resolve it. There will eventually be a vote for continued cooperation between the administrations or elections immediately. I've pointed out in my discussion that the government groups agree on one thing that the government has emphasized and that is continuing to activate democracy in order to create better social reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u46	President. These aren't fun days. I don't trust the government. No one may be surprised, but what is worse; neither will the majority of the people. Even worse, the people do not trust us, the political class. They trust us who are not in here anymore. Therefore, for people to be reassigned, it must be chosen immediately so that they can trust those serving in this house.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u47	A respectable president. I think it says a little bit about the situation that an advanced prime minister made it seem to me that he looked forward to coming to the Senate Hall and votes against this distrustable arrangement. Though he hasn't been seen much, I suppose he's out here somewhere in the middle of nowhere. But I wondered: " How can those forces that have led to distrust be a source of joy? I just feel like it's saying so much about the situation and the shit that's going on. It's like we're here talking from two different planets. It is as if the government and the government have no understanding of the seriousness of the issue and the requirements that exist and are realistic and justified. I say for myself, being in this situation is no reason for me to be happy. I cannot understand that anyone should look forward to being at the council under these circumstances. [[The president calls.]] I just don't have words, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u48	A respectable president. We're here to vote on distrust. What is trust at all? Is it comforting when it comes to it? A senator comes up, former U.S. Marshal. Minister, and wish a new minister to be happy with another and try to take the other one away from him? Is it? And smile at the world's faces as if it were just perfectly normal? Congratulations, my dear friend - and then try to snap his chair off? [[Up front.]] Is that trust? Is this the trust people want? All I'm saying is, I don't trust a man who wants to be happy with someone else and pulls away my chair with the other. [[You're the ones who need to talk about trust.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u49	Mr. President. It is so that we must have these matters examined in order to create peace and security in the community. Councilmen, ministers here, and members of Parliament, who are associated in one way or another, should have their own respect to departing from the council. They should be humble. They are to treat their people with respect. It's and it's just gonna be a business. This government is not going to set something straight in just a few weeks. It's clear to everyone who's in this office. The former Minister Firing, mentioned earlier, is a major concern. The democracy must be restored, a respected president, and the trust in politics. We all need to renew our commission to voters, and it is to be in their hands, not in the hands of 38 members of the proselytists and candidates. That's not what people are saying out here and beating on the ground: You can do this on your own. [[The president calls.]] No, people are saying, "We want to vote." Now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u50	A respectable president. The decision now being made is about whether it is the time of the nation's history that the Council asks its people: "What now? " What's to be done now? Where should we go? Who will rule the land? It's no more complicated than that. People have already acknowledged that this has become such an event that they called for a change in human affairs to the most important government office, but they still try to hang on it. True, the same declaration of policy. True, the same people who have spent the last two weeks spent all that has been criticized and led to the minister's resignation, expecting them to continue. Of course, it is the right conclusion and logical to enter the election immediately. [[The president calls.]] It's better for the nation, better for the council, better for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u51	A respectable president. It's been a long week, as we all know. A few days ago, the problem was. U.S. anti-continents to the highest level. The prime minister would resign. He's done it, and I respect his decision. But it smells a little, Mr. Honorable President, I hope so. People don't take it badly, but they smell a bit of a fluffy when it's rough. The members of Parliament then come and demand the officer to receive the highest office. Prime Minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, who succeeded yesterday, will resign. I don't see a grammatical argument. I say no to this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u52	A respectable president. I don't want to live in a country where politicians, their families, and friends will be rich in making government companies in the minimum price in the back rooms and taking the money from them to the islands. I don't want to live in a country where the prime minister says that business is fine with those that were exposed to Sigmundur Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson this week. I don't want to live in a country where the secretary of finance justifies a national business. [[Up front.]] I don't want to defend the government of mistrust that makes Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson his spokesman at the General Assembly today during the discussion, the day after he leaves a prominent office. That's why, a respectable president, I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u53	A respectable president. The basis for this discussion of distrust lay some obvious, clear questions: Is it okay for a politician to keep his money in an ethnic society? Is that a good example? Would it be okay for more people to do that? Would it be okay for all Icelanders to do that? We've heard a financial minister, as I interpret it, kind of say yes, I couldn't hear better than that would be okay. Is it okay for politicians who speak for the investment of the Icelanders and keep their money in the crowns themselves to have their money in a foreign currency and not to report it? Is that honest? Can we sign it? Is it all right when we're negotiating with the demands on three banks that one politician is himself and his family, and he doesn't tell us about it? Is that okay? [[Foreground on: No.]] These are the questions that have been faced. [[The president calls.]] No commander has answered those questions conclusively. However, they have indicated that this is all right. [[The president calls.]] This is one of the other reasons why we should accept distrust and obviously go to elections. I say, it's not okay. Now we need to ask the people: " Is this okay? [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u54	A respectable president. I don't like the way some senators come up here, and they declare that they are a bit of an obligatory at the memory of their lack of trust. About 20 of you. a man came to the East on Monday to declare his lack of trust and dissatisfaction with the government. Now it's been such a little musical with the government. I don't know exactly how he's going to end up, hopefully not well enough, because it's just not possible how she's been doing today, accusing us of lying when she's lying herself. It's just that it's enough. I will support this distrustable arrangement, for this government is in full confidence as never before.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u55	A respectable president. It is not an obligation to present a fault of distrust. Each senator's right to do so is self - righteous. At the beginning of the week, the government proposed a mistrustworthy arrangement for a sitting prime minister. He turned aside and actually realized what was proposed earlier this week. A respectable president. Because of this week's discussions about tax poetry, I'd like to say that taxes are not okay and that they need to be uprooted. Laws must be changed at the Council if we have to. That's what we're supposed to do in a cross political way. We have to get to the point, all classes, review that subject, and see how it needs to be adjusted. On the other hand, the prime minister turned aside so that he could continue working on the good work that this government is doing and that it could be completed. It's a deal, like housing, insurance fees, pensions and so on. We vote on that today, a respectable president, if we would like to proceed with that matter. Therefore, I say absolutely no to the fact that the ríkisstjórn of Sigurður the son of Ingi, who is on its first day, working on that matter, will be removed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's a very clear no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u56	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir True, the Sigmundur over Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson is no longer the prime minister, but he is an indistinguishable ideologies of the government. Just before, his speech showed in its most direct form the presumptuousness, the disorientation, and the perfectly black/white setting on which he is built and the government is following him to the matter. They say: We have done everything right. They say: We have done amazing things. They say: Everyone else has done everything wrong. Everyone else is out driving. It's a line that's either way. paritaprevir and the former prime minister, Sigmunds of Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla, and the task force of government. It's a distrust of the same government with the same policy, the same language, the same arrogance, as we've been exposed to yesterday and today. A government that considers itself to be infallible and indispensable at the same time and that almost everyone else thinks it should go. She's dangerous because she's blind to her environment and doesn't feel it. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, trust in this government is to be approved and to vote immediately. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u57	Mr. President. V.E.G. One prime minister earlier said that because of the uncertainty of the government, this government would have to continue. Why is there uncertainty? It's because of this blessed government that doesn't understand the time of his visit. It's uncertain because she's covered with trust. That's why there's uncertainty. That's why the government has to be removed. But those who rule the land and have guided it for far too long think they are the chosen ones to rule the land, so normal, half - division between an independent party and a forwarding party, where corruption thrives best. That's what people protest out here. Depravity has developed, and no doubt more will come. You're supposed to be packed. This government does not have a national health certificate. That does not mean waving, for the 38 members of this room are supporting the government. [[The president calls.]] The 38 senators must recognize that they too are trusting because they support the corrupt government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u58	A respectable president. It is impossible to regain trust in Icelandic society with this government in power after the high standards that the nation can now have because of the corruption and moral failure of the government. This government is from the first day away all trust because everyone sees that there's no change here, it's the same government that sat yesterday. It is also clear that all of today's most important projects in politics are better off in the hands of others than they are today. The country is required to vote immediately, to hand over its authority to its trusted political parties. We're supposed to respond to that call and go to the election right away. That's why I'm supporting a mistrusting order on the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u59	A respectable president. What's trust, boy? paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson? At least that's not a stretching term. Trust's all we've got. I distrust this government not only because of what has happened but also because of the appointment of the Ministerial Class, outside the same, of the new Minister now. All the other ministers, at least those to whom I have heard, have declared that there is nothing technically illegal with a tax bill. I don't trust these people to continue on big projects such as decommissioning, since they need to be absolutely clear where people stand on these things, public interests against special interests. That's why we need to say yes to distrust here today. That's something the people ask for. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u60	V.E.G. President. I don't trust a government that thinks it's all right for people to keep property in their taxes and talk about it's okay because they pay taxes. We all know that the paying of the right taxes is not possible for those in our own communities and taxes. Ministers who claim to be such are, in my opinion, not worthy of trust when it comes to settling the issues we've been discussing all day. That's why I believe the monopoly to declare the security of the government... and that there must be immediate breach... and that in the government... people who really can... want to handle these matters... will not act as if some people are paying taxes here and others aren't OK. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u61	A respectable president. There's nothing left in this government. She has the support of a quarter of the voters or trustrs. Fourth voter. I think that must be the smallest trust any government has ever made. It is absolutely impossible to offer this up to the people. That's why we're supposed to vote right away. That's why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u62	President. The Lepp management of the Sigmunds of Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla, is still dead. It still consists of two of the three advisers who had communities in secret societies in taxes. Those in charge who do not support this proposal are to express approval of such a course. A clergy class and an independent party have damaged trust and spirituality in Icelandic politics and have brought reproach on us. Mr. President. I support a mistrusting order on the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u63	Mr. President. Njálau says that traveling women went between Bergishvos and Hobbas. Then Hallgerður asked them: " What had happened to Njáll? He struggled to sit, they answered. This government is struggling to sit. She lives herself and nothing else, yet she can't live. It would be for the best of all, and especially for the government itself and its supporters, to face that reality. To face him honestly and to acknowledge that this is done and faced the nation, to have the courage to face the nation, and to bring his works into their judgment. That's where we're going to shoot this case. Therefore, the government is to be approved with distrust and a breach and an election is being announced.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u64	And the senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u65	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u66	A respectable president. The Torttol government is still sitting here. We're still sitting here at Tater Tots. It's unacceptable for Iceland. This government is finished. This government is trust and trust. It is time for the government groups to face that reality. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u67	V.E.G. President. I suggested that there be another way. I believe it is important that the Council renew their commission. I've also said that I think it's important that me and all of us in here take voters seriously. I also feel that in view of the past few days and weeks, it is important that the head of the Independence Party renews its authority. But I am an independent man, so I believe in the beginning of independence. I can only fight that values are against people in the existing government. It's important. This is important for all the independents of the country. I think it's the most successful thing for the Icelandic people. So I will not support the government's opposition in expressing distrust of the government. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u68	A respectable president. I feel sad that the generals cannot make their own decision and according to their own convictions. I remind you of the commitment to the constitution that we all have to sign which says we are only bound to our own convictions. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u69	President. I took my name on this proposal. It is reason that not only the nation but also much of the nation did not believe in this government, as shown by a new study in which only 14% had high trust in the government and 55% had very little confidence in it. I have to admit that my frustrations are strong against the efficiency that I have seen today with members of the council. I saw how many there were this week. Now, everything is to be done to ensure that the head of the taxpayer's office, who has money at his disposal or who had money to pay a tax bill, will handle the largest financial greed in Iceland history. [[The president calls.]] Your responsibility is great. It is clear that this great responsibility will come to know who will be at the General when the election is announced, which will hopefully be as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u70	And the senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u71	I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u72	Mr. President. It's begun work at the State Department to assess the damage done to Panama's documents, said the highest. Minister before. Might that not be for some reason? Do you think the people at the East Field are petting you? Is that it? No, it's not quite like that. You are going to hide behind the project, but you are afraid to contribute your work to this court of voters. You're not essential, there's no one. I urge you to take your money and listen to the people who insist that we give an election right away. I urge the people of the country not to accept the immorality manifested by the attitude of the chairman of the council and continue to be heard, for indeed the reputation and credibility of the nation is at stake.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u73	And the senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u74	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u75	A respectable president. I say yes to distrust, for I truly distrust this government, this counseller, even though one of them is new. I don't trust them to work on important projects, including the project, because they have shown that special interests are overrated in the public interest. This is not going to work, especially in the national language we address. Senators have come up, like cot. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason, who said he wants to work against the taxes and that we should all do it together. What are we talking about here? Are you going to do it tomorrow and not today? Isn't it time today? I don't think it's credible. I encourage people to vote with distrust. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u76	A respectable president. The events of the last days tell me that we have to get all these cases to the surface, cut up our armies against the fact that there are two nations living in one land, and cut off troops against taxes. People are supposed to be on account of what they're supposed to be doing. Those who want a free ride should not be offered. I don't understand why many people want a free ride, put more loads on others, and let go of themselves in shouldering their burdens. It's completely incomprehensible. The government has responded. There have been serious events here that have seriously affected the public's trust in politicians. Prime Minister has resigned. There will be elections in the fall. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u77	When's the election?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u78	A respectable president. It is clear that Iceland's reputation has been a major international failure. These data suggest that the Icelanders used the services of taxes to a great extent than other nations and hundreds of Icelanders have been linked to such companies. Now your ex-fiancée has the highest. Prime Minister, step aside. This is an important step. We have and we need to go further. We need to go further to regain the reputation of our country. We are anxious to make laws so that Icelanders and Icelandic companies do not take advantage of the activities of these taxes. I'm prepared to work on that, and I know that many members of the council in this room are willing to do so. I support this government for good works, and I especially welcome a new foreign minister. I say no to this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u79	A respectable president. It is clear to the government that the classes have not asked their institutions, their central government, and their platoon government, whether they have this government business. Independents have not discussed it in their own ranks; neither have they discussed it in their own ranks. They haven't signed it yet. I am sure that many independents may have remembered the old slogan given by the Independence Party when they discussed the scope of this government under what circumstances it is established, which is: " Do right, do not tolerate injustice. Obviously, what is right and wrong is in this regard. You don't keep your money in a foreign tax field. You do not sit on either side of the table discussing with demands. It's so obvious. And the government groups don't even intend to allow their own party members to make their point. They've just started the government and refused to answer all the questions. Even if it doesn't stand, then it's solid trust. What happens when organized trust comes into the government? We've seen it today. [[The president calls.]] They have begun to promise their sleeves and speak inexorably because their despair is complete. [[The president calls.]] I want her out of the way. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u80	A respectable president. The leader of the Independence Party said to the institution of this government that it was a mess. Yesterday, the head of the forward party told us that the head of the Independence Party had done exactly what he had done and led to his resignation. Not even the heads of the administrations trust their own government, let alone the rulers who forced vote with it, let alone the government, the people, or the whole world. Here, the government officials rise protesting the prime minister and finance minister and their defense against the tax authorities. They need to know that by saying no to our proposal, they are defending government leaders who defend the tax industry. That's why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u81	A respectable president. Honesty has often been chosen as one of our main national values in Iceland. Honesty draws many other values, such as trust and righteousness. A discussion of honesty, as we have seen that in the Assembly Hall today, the discussion has quite thin content when the discussion is so applied to dishonesty that it is true. Here's a request for excuses at the theatre of the absurd. Who should apologize for this theater of absurdity, which is being conducted here when such dishonesty is being made manifest, where men are trusted with taxes, who want to keep taxes, who want to trust and build tax collections, and who are corrupt? Is that an honest discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u82	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u83	What happens when groups of people are out of trust? There's one thing. But what happens, a respectable president, when the Allied is trust? [[The president calls.]] When it comes to the question of why the General trust, would it not be time for all of us to examine ourselves? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u84	Mr. President. Secular activity undermines Western welfare communities, Western republics. That is why Western democracies have agreed on the task of eliminating such tax taxes. Nevertheless, I listened to the government directors, the new prime minister, to say yesterday that it was not unusual for elected representatives as well as others to take advantage of such societies in taxes. I must say, Mr. President, I find it very difficult to trust such a government with a call from door to door. That's why I'm saying yes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u85	A respectable president. Once both government leaders have found that associating with partners in the tax industry is not enough for one of them to step aside and instead of sitting on the Ministerial Zone, he goes into the hall and then continues as if nothing had happened. The problem of confidentiality is so rich. Why is that? This is because while a person gives up everything in his peers in so - called tax documents, the burden of proof is still theirs. There is no way for the local tax authorities to find out if it is counted correctly, and it is at the mercy and mercy of those whose communities are involved in it. That's why it's wrong. This is also wrong, Mr. Honorable President, because the government officials have become aware of breaking free from the nation. This deep distrust cannot be fixed in this way. [[The president calls.]] That's why I say, "Let's go to the election immediately." [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let's all renew our commission and put all the cards on the table. [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u86	V.E.G. President. The nation and much of its members, including some members of the council, call for excommunication with government and elections as soon as possible. I agree. We need a new start. We need to rebuild Iceland. You may be able to describe the last events in the death - dealing administrations of an independent party and a leading party, as a young man mentioned to me here in the East: It is not enough to change the government's name and social security number. The government is, in fact, the newest landmark in the country. I don't trust the current government party to rule the country. As I said before, we need a new start, we need a restart. All council members should request a new commission of the nation by election. That's why I say yes to a mistrust list of the forward-class government and the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u87	Mr. President. This is reflected in the votes on how the government in general views politics and the serious issues presented here. You don't even have the guts to talk about things the way they are. The members of the government do not talk about men in the management team having money in the tax industry and there's something wrong with it. Rather, they speak of something that is not good enough on the basis of the government. We've already sacrificed the prime minister, now you should just be grateful but have no freckles, like the highest. Environment Minister said. It's just more serious than that. I listened to what I heard. Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who was asked for the week when she was asked: Is it not normal for a man to apologize? Hv. A senator replied: "Sorry for what? [[Up front.]] Sadly, this is the attitude of the administrative sector. He does not understand the seriousness of the matter, but he must do so because there is no trust between a council and a nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This government is to be removed. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u88	Mr. President. The person who sets up a secret account on a tax bill does it for a purpose, does it to hide and deceive, and to avoid laying down his own money to the community. L.A.U.U. The prime minister says that he does not completely oppose the use of tax ornaments. L.A.U.U. The secretary of finance has taken advantage of a tax claim. He's head of the tax business. The Icelandic government lacks trust and confidence. We do not gain trust with this government. In addition, it is humorous in the eyes of other nations. She needs to get out of the way. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u89	V.E.G. President. I've been speaking in both my council and in public matters of choosing. I believe that the Independence Party as well as the entire nation benefit from the election. The independence party is benefiting from this because we can put our work there, the government that has been sitting in the court of voters, as well as all other classes here. It's good for all of us. It is good for democracy, and it is good for society as a whole. I have to say, when there's a lot of conflict in politics, like now because of those events, it took place this week, also because of what happened when the nation passed the Icesave Act at its time, then at the council looking at their minds and thinking: Is it not right to choose? We're not afraid of elections. That's why I support our election and say yes. [Applause in the Assembly Hall.]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u90	A respectable president. It has been referred to in my words today regarding the comment that I had supported the motion of the candidates for the election. The whole story has never been told, what I went on to say. I also said in this interview that there was an agreement and the decision of a panel of candidates to stand that this government will survive and be chosen in the fall. Democratic talks at the council, a respectable president, also at the Assembly Hall of the candidates. There's a government democracy at the council and in the advance. I then said that I wouldn't stand to propose the state of Congress violation, which is my opinion, of course, in the past, of not controlled government policy. It's with great pleasure and with the foundation I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u91	A respectable president. We've had a lot to do here, and much has been discussed and observed. I believe that when the situation is like this, politicians who have been elected by the nation to take their interests and interests into account to make a deliberate decision, to be responsible, and to take care of all the things involved. I believe that it was in this case and found a compromise that is important in politics because it is not always possible to reach conclusions that everyone accepts, though best when they succeed. I believe that it is wise to expect an election in the fall. That's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u92	A respectable president. I strongly hold that Congress elections will be rushed. Prime Minister has resigned. There will be elections in the fall. There are elections in June, and we need time to get in trouble and open process of choosing people on the list to sit on the new General Assembly. So I don't support this proposal of the government and say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u93	A respectable president. For material reasons that I traced to my speeches today, I support our election. But there is another reason. It is based on the fact that in the fall, I find it difficult to trust the very hairy statements made by representatives of the board of directors for elections. I think it's a reflection of the situation and the distrust that you don't know what to believe in. No date has been named. That's all they say in the fall. At times, this declaration is conditioned. We're gonna vote in the fall if the rest of you behave. Amazing prideful material pronouncements, in view of what has been going on before. So it's not clear. That is an additional reason, except for how morally strong it would be to sound an election right away. It would be simply best to make this decision here and now because the government's declarations, even when it comes to declarations of other kinds of elections, such as, for example. it is difficult to trust. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u94	A respectable president. One of the main causes of the United States economy was a deadly mixture of political and commercial life. After the horrors, we swore an expensive oath in this hall that we were about to inform voters of the connection between political and commercial life. [[Up front.]] Now that promise has been broken. Then they should interrupt a council and enter the election, for voters have the right to choose the lead on the basis of this information. Men may make mistakes. I don't think they should be condemned forever and ever. But politicians who become aware that such things are not to be afraid to vote. They should have the prerogative of campaigning to gain trust and authority. Those who refuse to do so will not be able to do anything, even if they are able to hang on to fear in the chairs a few months longer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u95	Hv. A senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u96	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u97	A respectable president. This discussion has been far too much to think of creating turmoil and turmoil in our society, promoting uncertainty in people. [[Up front.]] Of course, showing such conduct is irresponsible on the part of members of Congress. Similarly, a respectable president, if any senators, senators who support this government, would take part in running away from responsibility now in the critical times of Icelandic society, running away from responsibility in these critical times. We've been listening. There is no doubt that humans agree that it will be preferred sooner. It is asked when it will be chosen. It is not least based on my opinion, a respectable president, how the government and the government groups meet together at the Senate Hall for the payment of a very important matter for our community. [["No... "]] [[Up front.]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If we don't make that trip together and we don't reach the conclusion on these issues, it can delay detracting on important matters, then it will be delayed to the election. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u98	Hv. A senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u99	Hv. A senator says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u100	Mr. President. Even if it was only to be clear when an election should take place in Iceland, it would be wise to accept this proposal. As we have heard in talks and comments, it appears that some strange power should be made from the government's declaration that she intends to shorten this election period for one assembly. It is put in a strange setting where we discuss that it will all be weighed and determined by which agreement is reached. Mr. President. This, of course, is not an acceptable logic. Even if it wasn't for just that saying, I'll say yes to the election this spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u101	A respectable president. The top of the board seems to intend to propose elections, although you have heard from their camp that people are behind them and are not afraid of them. Then I ask, "Why don't men publish the date of elections in the fall? " V.E.G. The secretary of finance has reached this point by saying on the stairs on Wednesday night that one legion will be cut off from the election season. If I understood him correctly, I'm sure that means in September, but then others have taken him ashore. This must be explained if they mean what they say, because one of the changes made in the steps were earlier elections. What are you afraid of? [[Top of the hall: dressers.]] Voteers? A respectable president. I'll say yes to this proposal. I think we're supposed to meet the demand for elections where we're all looking for a new commission, all the classes here, and we're going to take a conversation with the nation about the route after the tremendous trust that has taken place.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u102	Mr. President. It's as if elections are something extremely dangerous, black death. Why are people afraid to enter the election now and renew their authority? What are they afraid of? [[For example, consider this point: Judgment.]] Afraid of a voter's judgment? Yeah, I guess that's what's underneath. I don't think a voter's judgment will be better if they pull up and do this sometime in the fall or a god knows when, to a minimum next spring, after a year. [[Up front.]] However, we do not trust the administrative point in the way he speaks. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is already in danger of politics: If you're like this and if you're gay. Whether the government's opposition is humble and follows in the footsteps of the management team, it depends on whether the people of the land are elected. What kind of talk is that? You can't trust a board of directors that talks like this and can't publish when to vote. [[The president calls.]] We want to vote now. [[The president calls.]] The people of the land want to vote right away. [[The president calls.]] We left greens don't panic elections, like the forward party and the Independence Party do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u103	And what? A senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u105	A respectable president. There are frightened governors who have been locked up here today to avoid the judgment of the voters. This hall may be a place of distrust, but its members are not the people. The people are out of these walls. She has the right to pronounce her sentence on the work and on the performance of those in charge at this moment. The people require the right to vote. I support that claim. That's why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u106	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson just put it here when he said we were living in fate. True, we are living in a critical time, and this is at the command of the government, which is now to produce a new version of itself. The president asked for a sound in the hall earlier, but he can't ask for a sound out here. It's the nation calling for reform and a renovated commission in Icelandic politics. So, if we, the council, are not, then, if we're going to keep the power in the back rooms and walk the council, we're going to go to the public in the country after what's happened. I don't think it's acceptable, unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u107	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u108	I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u109	Mr. President. The trust was asked about earlier in a talk. I can say exactly what I think trust is. That's the key factor in human communication. When trust is lost, society is falling apart. That's exactly what's happened here. Two principal men of the government are found to have a confidential attitude toward the nation. They're cheating on the people. It is tragic to watch members of the council refuse to accept a violation of Congress. They're thus agreeing that their leaders are betraying the nation. It's not the first time in the season. It's no problem for them to betray people. It's a tragic day in Icelandic politics. It's a terrible thing to watch. And it's sad to have to take part in this, and especially to see some senators whom you've been working with for three years, great people who've done a good job, have to go down so low to support the government and its leaders, who have betrayed the nation, plainly said. It's just that way. I'll say yes to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u110	A respectable president. Of course, history will ultimately judge this matter. We've got 37 members of the board. Last Monday there were 22 of you. a man thought to be out in the East. They were making a request not merely for government status but for the people to answer the nation's cry for a renewed commission. Thirty-seven members of the council against 22 of you. which is increasing. At the end of the day, the decision now to try to hang on to it will show whether it was a good thing for the administrations to make the decision. I believe this is the beginning of a lot of politicians we look at in front of and in some cases, because there are many relevant politicians in the sections that are making a very bad decision here, both personally and politically, but not least for the whole nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u111	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u112	I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-95.u113	Mr. President. We hear the sound on the outside of the East, where Protestants have been gathering on the fifth day in a row. To this day, protests are offered. The forwarding and independent party government does not have the confidence of the nation because of the largest scandalous political story in the country. The public's demand for elections immediately requires that people wash away this scandal's shame and return the shame where it belongs. President. I propose a breach and an election immediately.
