ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u1	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss the activities of the council here, and call attention to what we were talking about yesterday, the highest bill. Secretary of education, the LINE bill, which he proposed, and we discussed with the 1st. I would like to bring up a few points, but first I'd like to say that I really like that we're setting up a scholarship system for students in Iceland, but we need to make it clear that there is a stronger system. Ministers preaching in the bill are something we do not know best from the North countries. This is 65 of you. K. concentrations associated with income taxation. This means that those who come out of a job and are going to study will receive much less strength because the money they have earned during the previous year will severely limit it. Similarly, if you plan to work with school, your strength will be greatly impaired. There are other things I wish for at what. A top-of-the-art Board of Education to consider her work, mostly how it works. A minister estimates that people will pay back their strength. It's supposed to take the income out, it's very sad, and I think it needs to be examined closely how it affects large groups of society like women who have a bad reality that we have less pay for the same job. Women will then have to pay a relative higher percentage of their provisions for each month than men at that rate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u2	V.E.G. President. I'd like to continue talking about the operation we're standing in right now to agree, i.e. Help young people buy their first estate. I am very sorry to hear that this action is spoken down by certain individuals. Now, in the community, insurmountable loans are offered. We also know that in recent years, those inseparably borrowing have been worse than the devil's own. However, the nation's economy, inflation, has been very low, and virtually none, which has resulted in a much more favorable loans for us to pay. Of course, we know that each one of us who has had insured loans on a house or another. What's going on now is that they're doing young people who've been willing, dedicated, and interested in trying to save up for their own apartment, i.e. It is being opened a way for it. The ways that open the cause are open, because it is said that young people are being pushed primarily on uncertain loans, there are three ways, and they involve different possibilities, and I encourage all young people to take a close look at these matters and not be told anything about them. Young people are being opened up to have their own apartment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u3	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start by quoting an interesting article by economist VR published on the nuclear center, where there are three main reasons for low inflation, first low oil prices, second, the glancation of the kroner, and thirdly low prices other than oil. Inflation is lower than the World Bank's money policy committee has anticipated. That question is raised in another article on the Core's Web site what the money policy committee will do when the next decision is made. The main factors for growth are 5.75.0%, and the inflation 1.1% which means that there is no higher real estate in the world, and little indicates that inflation will start or that this situation will change in the near future if the criteria I covered. So it will be interesting to see how the money policy committee responds to this situation. I mention it here because, of course, the growth of the public and the development of employment is very important. The results of maintaining prices here must not be minimized and the money policy committee is expected to gently step to the ground, but the fact is that the high price of money, and is reflected in these extreme trials, that the public and the commercial life finance the stability of money is high. This, of course, will benefit those who have free and adequate money for bearing fruit. What will the money policy committee do? It will continue to focus on the consumption and borrowing of high management growths, which, in fact, share the loans that depend primarily on the arrangement of applying the Secret Bank's personal name, i.e. Unconvinced loans, or will they measure inflation on grounds, as I did at the beginning of my speech?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u4	A respectable president. When the authorities and the authority decide to do something, it even costs money. The experience of the so - called "Daffen Rule " has been that Iceland, if possible, tries to use it to throw people out of the country. A common misunderstanding is that when they apply here for refuge, saying yes to those who are seeking it automatically costs money but the expense of saying no is forgotten, the cost of making a statement that goes on at least one point, which, in turn, ran around in the booth that we have created to keep people away from the possibility of yes. Rather, the arrangement, or way we use it, makes it possible that we would rather take matters for physical treatment compared with what we could and should do. This involves cost. I think it's important to mention this because during the discussion, the more we approve, the greater the benefits we make. It is likely wrong, so it takes more and more to make every possible effort to push people out of the country because they care. It requires legal assistance, it requires living while people are waiting for a conclusion. It costs money when the State tries to do so. I would be interested to see a further analysis of the costs, the charges we have created to keep people away from the country with all possible means, instead of simply taking more cases for the material treatment where the result often would be no, at least in some cases, sometimes yes, depending on events and circumstances. The way we try to push people out of the country, I'd like to say that we'll gain a lot more money than it would cost to take simply more matters for the material treatments and, especially, to say yes more often.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u5	V.E.G. President. In November 2014, nearly every day, new chapters are written in the unfortunate history of the company's Borging and sales for the share of the State. Recently, in the media, which had actually happened since the summer of 2013 and until the fall of 2013, it was reported that due to the fusion of Visa in America and Visa in Europe, the company would receive a 6.5 billion dollars. That means that those who were the lucky buyers of that company's share in that company in November 2014 now got the one board of the price reimbursed, i.e. About 2.1 billion k. It is quite amazing in itself, as we have seen here in this case that Iceland's Landsbankis was to take over the sale of this object in the way it was done. Now the Lands Bank has taken steps to appeal to representatives of the Cities that bought from the Lands Bank, and it has become quite similar to that of Heródes and Pílatus, to say. There is a particular concern, however, that during all this time, there is no sound at the FDA. I've talked about it before from this platform that it was the first time this year that the F.S.A. had something to do with the sale of the City and that it was rather absorbed, but it has not been followed in any way. So it took 18 months for SEC to find out that there was something dangerous about this sale, but they have done nothing wrong with writing one letter. [[The president calls.]] It's a special research material.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u6	A respectable president. The previous day, the government introduced what had been previously announced as abolition of insurance, but it proved to be something completely different. The message was even. extending the ten - year access of loan institutions to special pensions and to more than three times the amount, to up to 5 million. K. In the 2008 financial collapse, when the domestic debt ran counterclockwise, it opened the way for temporary emergency relief to use up to 1 billion. K. to this purpose, which is now probably about 1.5 billion. K. In view of all the other circumstances, the government now intends to give creditors access to this special property to people for the next ten years and more than triple the amount. To this day, the special pension industry has been the principal stronghold and pension insurance for people, savings that no one has been able to interfere with, uninvolved property, and in that sense armored for every form of bank and other loan institutions. Because there has been a long period of special pension, it is one of the few that can be said to have real insurance, since the short - term bank account does not, and because of its counterproduction it produces fruit. Let us not forget in this discussion about the insurance policy that it not only guarantees the recovery of loans but also guarantees the internality of the banking system and the better it lasts. Of course, it is a big interest for the public not to come in the armory of the special pension industry, but now it seems a smile. It is claimed that these measures are beneficial for young people. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, sir, but the government is in a serious ideological error with this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u7	President. Now it's obvious that there's a problem with elections and that's why I'd like to come into the front. It is very dangerous and bad for confidence in the Council that people are being promised things that cannot be realized and worse if their local government intends to make promises, which they then expect other material that could never be fulfilled. In view of this discussion, I'd like to quote GunnarSmári who Egilsson with permission of a president: ▪ The government groups in the ensuing election have promised to improve the interest of the elderly and the disability, double the circleway, extend and improve the birthorof, provide a scholarship instead of loans, eliminate insurance, support young people for housing, increase the interests of state funds on land, consider greetings, reduce tolls on cheeses, save the health benefits of the health system, and certainly many more things I have not noticed. And the campaign struggle is hardly begun. The problem with the political promise is that those who make it are no more likely to carry it out than anyone else. However, to bring the community talk through excited promises and harsh promises has subsided the discussion and the most challenging of community projects. A dresser can use his thumb to promote a politician who promises to be a politician who does not want to discuss the most important things. He only wants to discuss what he thinks is what people want to hear and what makes him a positive light. In the past, the groups praised various things (and many of the things they promise today) but the first thing they did was to lower fishing reserves and give tens of billions of dollars to theaks that keep these groups going. The gift of the party to develop companies that fire them is larger than Icezave. And the FedEx Bank's bankruptcy. It's still going on.How's it going? This is worth considering, dear boy. Councilmen, before people lose out on promises that can never be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u8	Mr. President. The government has presented a number of measures in recent times, and it seems to me that these measures are all in that way and that they are expected to increase social class distinctions in the country and separation and discrimination among people, unfortunately. Not only do they stand out as different from living people but they also differ from the economic and economic conditions of people in life. Of course, it is very bad when housing operations and measures involving students such as the loan bill, which has been discussed here, encourage the release of certain groups in society that have no chance of participating in the community. Of course, we know that with these first purchase measures, it is especially those who have the potential to save money for the first apartment. There are no actions to meet other groups that cannot afford to do this. THE LIN bill excludes certain groups that need to borrow with very high interest so that they can support themselves, not live in the capital area, can't stay in a home, and pursue university education from there. It is excluded, e.g. People in the country because they do not understip loans with these high interest rates. Women are also to be excluded, for many of them are educated for jobs that are not well paid in the future, and they do not experience a heavy payoff in the future. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u9	President. I'm gonna talk about competition. As a respectable president knows, I'm not born yesterday. I worked for EFTA about about about how transportation freedom was introduced in Europe; before I had worked with the European Airways, the British Airways, Lufthansa, Air France, and all of them. Of course, they fought an organization as long as they could resist other airlines being allowed to fly, all hell, we said. But compare your supply with your flight prices just before, like, 1990 or now. I was also with EFTA when the telecommunications laws were changed, patents were taken from government companies. Then it was also foretold that everything would go to hell. Others have indeed done so. A competition is a password in business and service to people. A competition is a password in reducing prices to consumers and enriching the job life. It's not just in flight and communication, it's also true of milk and fish. That's why we're going to take out the Lactates and her business for the competition. This will help reduce the price of dairy products to consumers. A competition, competition, public market competition is a password. It's not only the milk industry, it's fish. They're supposed to be competition for fish sold out of the country, and they're supposed to be competition for fish sold ashore. It helps to improve the use of raw materials. A respectable president. I feel it is proper to end these thoughts by referring to an article that Ólafur Stephensen writes in the Morning newspaper today, I think, of ID. It reveals that in addition to the lack of competition, the State's power in the force of debt correction delivered to one company market, so to speak. That's not good.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u10	President wants to ask why. Parliaments must handle their words with care and not use pessimism in their sermons.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u11	V.E.G. President. On the first day of the press, the U.S. government was reported to have kept records of the 1950's regarding the possibility of developing nuclear weapons at the Cheflavour Airport. The most interesting thing about these data is that it makes it clear that government officials and government officials in the West thought they could safely store nuclear weapons here without telling Icelandic officials. This is disrespectful of a small state and a state called a friendly nation. It's not surprising, actually. It is consistent with the behavior of the superpowers in the military field to always go as far as possible with their arms and even beyond. While this report is on historical subjects, it is a fine reminder about today's issues. Nuclear weapons did not disappear with the Cold War. They are a living threat, one of the greatest dangers facing mankind. The nuclear powers have suffered the loss of defending awesome heights in the very process of renewing their nuclear weapons. In November of last year, I asked a few questions to the local authorities. Foreign Minister on Iceland's nuclear policy. The questions were asked after a new minister began his office. I even asked. to what evidence was Iceland's objection to the proposal to ban nuclear weapons and spread at the UN General Assembly in 2015 and to see if the Ministers consider NATO's conduct and attitude to be the case with the United Nations General Assembly in 2015? is seen in the development of missile systems that contribute to global nuclear disarmament. [[The president calls.]] It is good to say that such questions have not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u12	Mr. President. On the day before yesterday, I had a conversation with the minister of education, Illugi Gunnarsson, and I discussed the reading campaign we've been discussing in a council hall and in part. We've received written answers and so on. I asked the minister specifically about the advice they had received and how they had been successful in their work and how the work had taken place. So the question was, in effect, about how the work is a success and whether a minister believes that his aims would be achieved. He avoided giving specific answers to counseling. Yesterday's issue was followed by a discussion on this subject because I had wondered about it, and with others here, counseling had quit because of dissatisfaction and many other things. Last night, a Web site on TV revealed that three of the nine specialised men who took up the work last fall to work on this campaign had already retired. Not enough. This team, perhaps part of the explanation but not all of it, had trouble, but it was a little dissatisfaction with a team manager. At that time, the Council of Education was advised to lay down the situation, and the work of this team manager. The situation today is that a member may consider taking his case to the Generalist because she believes that her rights were violated as a professional in this work for many years. I find it interesting when a minister fails to answer the basics that these parties were to carry out, this campaign, because it costs a lot of money. I believe they would have been better protected, as I have expressed, but not in the way described here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Obviously, the project aims slower and, as the director says, this has affected the progress of the project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u13	Mr. President. Recently, much discussion in society has been made about the saying of the saying system and for good reason. Of course, people are amazed at how fishermen who have the means to sell them and buy them as they please, putting the proceeds in their pockets without having to give any consideration to the people whose survival is based on fishing and winning them and having built their communities on them. This is the situation. Councilmen have long known it was this way, but nothing has happened. Today, however, many authorities have allowed timeless opportunities to tell them that they care so much about the people in the country and in their TVs and that nothing can be changed into the fishing system, since it threatens the interests and survival of these people. What an illusion. Of course, people are also amazed at how to divide the money they earn. The special interests and spokesmen of this council and elsewhere must begin to understand and accept the fact that the people of the land want to own and benefit from the fishing resource. This is for the people of the country to decide. It is their democratic right. It is also the right of the people of the country to benefit from the combined resource of the nation. Mr. President. The use of fish stocks in behalf of the nation must be done so that the fishing industry will become large and share the fish so that all the people will benefit. It is inevitable to limit the access to the fishing resource in order to make it practical and profitable. The important thing is that the public will receive the interest it creates as the owner of the resources. And, of course, it is reasonable and reasonable for people living in traditional seas to gain much of that money to strengthen their communities and build a wide range of opportunities for employment there. We have a recent example of this, as in the village, where a large part of the quatans is sold away and left behind is a community of wounds and 20 to 30 persons out of work who have no place to spend. It's intolerable that very few people have the idea of whether their communities in Iceland will die or live.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u14	A respectable president. I wanted to use this opportunity to welcome new news on the airport scene from Icelanda Group. The news is that Illeland's group plans more carefully to reinvigorate the old hopes that many had lost, perhaps even to the point of death. can find a solution to this difficult issue, which can meet all the main concerns of the case, both the country and its capital, as well as the pilots. It is now decided that the company will spend tens of millions of dollars, according to the director's report, to investigate by a crossing over the Whale test whether there is a technical option to run a airport, because the increase in international travel and the need to build up international airports, and the need for internal airports may make it attractive to attack in the structure of airports, which may involve commercial views. If it's aerodynamicly possible, I can't better see that it meets both the needs of the city's land space in the middle of the city and also the needs of the country for the access to the capital area, for a good approach to the national hospital, and for the important security issues involved. This terrible issue has divided people into very strong ranks, where the bond has been divided and man - made. They were accused of not being concerned with the life and health of their countrymen. I really hope that, while it's still only in the field of observation, this survey will be completed and the company will get that peace. [[The president calls.]] It would be an enormous advantage if we got from the company that has led to the construction of the flight in Iceland a solution that all participants could join in. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss just the three poets in Akureyri, David's House, Nona House, and Wins Hill, in relation to the importance of equality when we quarrel with funding. You often get the feeling, and it's not a good thing, that it's an accident that controls, or even links, to some individual body member or government official who is temporarily responsible for some kind of power they can use. One of the reasons the museum members were taken out of a budget committee was to make the application procedure more transparent and juster. What has happened with the three poets in Akureyri is that they've fallen between a ship and a dock. They were given financial strength, a total of 2.5 million a year in 2009, in which case the strength fell, and since then these museums have received no strength from the State. I sent a written inquiry to the Ministry of Education last year and asked about this. Then I received the answers that the museums should have attended parts of the country's cultural agreements. That is exactly what they were reduced at the same time, so the museums were to be collected from a small fund. When I ask the minister if he believes that he is equal to the three poets and other comparable cultural positions, the answer is that there is an agreement between the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Institute of Gunns, Snortoru and the Laxness Museum of the Glafrichstein. Then I ask, "Why is there no cultural connection between the Ministry of Culture and the three poets in Akureyri? " I think it's completely incomprehensible. I call for a minister to take advantage of something in this matter. It's intolerable that the distribution of funds is random. We're talking about three museums, each year alone, each of which costs 70,480 million. [[The president calls.]] I'm not crying about it, these are very good museums and important things, but there are three museums that can't get a dollar.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u16	A respectable president. I'm going to make transportation a subject as often as before. There are a lot of discussions about transport, and the estimated need for investment is about 350 billion for the system to be what it should be. It is primarily important to cut down traffic rates and reduce accidents. Therefore, we should not forget that there are cheaper ways to increase traffic security and reduce accidents while waiting for larger and more expensive projects. To begin with, mark a single layer of bridges correctly and effectively, with sparks and cross lines, set the prenup, and reduce the maximum speed around them in order to improve security around them until it is able to make the two - sided priority. We also hear a lot about how much roads are stopped to take pictures, look at nature, and so forth. Especially foreign tourists. With Icelanders, we can blame ourselves, most of the places we visited, e.g. In Europe, there are painted sides on the highways that show no stopping, let alone. If we had these lines here, we'd have cut this off instead of calling for a much larger outlets that can certainly be done, but there are so little things we need to think about in order to increase traffic security and reach it. It's the same with an intersection. Most serious traffic accidents occur at an intersection. One fatal accident costs a minimum of 100 million, but it is often possible to resolve this problem by making a call to 150 million. One fatal accident is as expensive as one callo morning, so we should proceed immediately while we are getting ourselves involved in serious transport investments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u17	Mr. President. There were conflicting opinions on this matter on the welfare committee. A smaller section of the Committee puts out a special opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u18	The President's asking for a sound in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u19	A smaller section of the Committee puts out a special opinion where this bill is not recommended. We feel that there is no evidence to take the current history and distribution of public health funds from the professional channel it has been in. This will help to reduce the number of applications being broad, professional, and narrow the process by reducing the size of control. The evidence that has been presented before the change prevents all aspects of our judgment from getting lighter than those that contradict it. So we won't support this case and, contrary to it, will vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u20	A respectable president. I vote against the case. I've seen no convincing evidence of accepting this matter. It seems that the speakers agree to be opposed or at least not to recommend it and to warn of what is suggested here to be done. So I vote against the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u21	V.E.G. President. National Security Council is aimed at a national security conference. The 1st. While a number of criticisms were made on the subject, this criticism was taken into account by the Committee, as reflected by the changes in the proposals involved. A foreign press committee that opens up a wide approach where people with diverse backgrounds will be seated in the National Security Council. I find that these adjustments I think will improve the situation and will, therefore, support the progress and follow through.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u22	A respectable president. I vote with the article but I want to remind you on this occasion that national security laws in some countries are going to have some sort of balance in order to prevent the freedom and democratic rights of the citizens. I reiterate that I vote with this article, but I think it's better to keep this in mind because recent world events have given us ample reason to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u23	Mr. President. I'm signing this committee opinion in advance that I made an account in a speech last night but I think it's a reason to mention here that I don't make a comment at work anyway. The Economic and Business Committee for the implementation of this case. However, I have general doubts about the evolution of the financial system and how it has benefited the public and commercial systems in European countries from which this directive is due. Various economists have begun to raise doubts about the practical value of the methodology so that the financial system serves the role of public and professional services in these countries. It's because of these big questions I'd like to sit by for the release of this case, but not necessarily due to the induction of Icelandic rights, which, of course, is part of the EEA itself. These are questions, however, that I find reasons to discuss in a joint field in Europe, since there are more and more who express doubts about this methodology, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u24	V.E.G. President. I'd like to use this opportunity as the executive of this case to say that this is the second step in the implementation of EU regulations called CRD IV/? CRR Protocol based on a so - called Basel III standard. The first step towards its introduction in Icelandic correctly was taken last year, and the regulation consists of the Directive for the establishment and activities of financial companies and the regulations for the safety of loans and investment companies. It is proper to assume that in the early spring process of the case, the commission was concerned about carefulness and special circumstances in the Icelandic financial market, taking care of smaller financial companies, that there would be no more burden to them than the need for a financial crisis. I want to point 'em. Councilmen on change proposal, number No. 22, which adds a new provisional directive to extend space with the induction of protection in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u25	A respectable president. I would like to recommend more part of the legal committee, and I would like to use this opportunity to express my joy that we have come to the point where we have become part of this process. It should seem perfectly reasonable that we have a long - term plan on government matters, and not just government matters, but public financial matters, as this refers to the financial community as well. A deal has been made between state and rural society through the big lines in the years to come. As likely as this should be, this is the first time we do this and are learning from the nations we want to compare ourselves with when it comes to public finances. I hope, more dignified President, we will see a changed culture when it comes to public financial matters. Although we may continue to disagree about various things and deal with in the political state, there is no doubt that it is best for an Icelandic nation if one is able to get along with one another about discipline and long - term thinking in public finance. It will benefit everyone, and there is no doubt that there is a basis for stability in this country and that it is not one of the largest, if not the largest, interests in the public and, above all, those less involved. Someone might ask: Why a long-term plan? I think it's the simplest thing to say that it's just common sense. It is wise to set long-term plans that I think is the quality of all successful ones, e.g. in business, but just as it is in public business. It would also be very important for those in the government to do various jobs, e.g. The rulers and rulers of the institutions, being able to look ahead to the future more than one year at a time and make plans at the same time. It's a shock to such tactics. I want to use this opportunity to inform what I found interesting when we were in trouble. A legal committee went to Sweden to talk to the local people. We spoke to all the members of this experience who are involved, whether it was political agents, government officials, surveillance systems, or surveillance agents. It is interesting that in that country, like the most successful countries, it seems to have met up with this strategy. When we talk about these tactics, it involves not only the practices of the council and the executive but also the political discussions. It claims, as if I had heard it before, and shows in notes as before. A legal committee made it their visit to Sweden that if any politicians feel irresponsible in public financial matters, they are not at the public platform. It doesn't matter which political party they are. I can't quite say this without making that assessment, but there is no need for political issues in these countries. It's just a comparison of these tactics and this approach. It has to do with simple things, if politicians promise expenses, the question is, How will they finance them and what assessment has made of how to make ends meet? Everyone who listens to my words will see that we have something to do with this culture in the public financial and financial discussions. I hope, however, that we are on the right track and that we will reach where I am pointing in a public discussion as well as in the construction process. There's something to consider when discussing these things. First of all, this is a long-term plan. It's the big lines, and it's not the budget. These are not the financial laws of the individual years, the nature of the case changes. However, this is the list of major issues and the nature of the case according to the rules, whether it is a new government that would accept after the election or during its time, can make changes in this. It also calls for making changes in the budget if they turn this into a big deal but within the budget, that's not writing five budgets in the future to be completely said. Not to be expected, that will confuse the discussion. Because the law went into effect on January 1 of this year, we are not doing exactly what will be done in the coming years. That's the way the thinking is, for example. The purpose of the coming in the spring, the council of finance pass over it, and bring their reviews, and we will destroy it in the spring. There was no time for that now for obvious reasons. We in the greater part of the budget decided because of the short time we have, because there is a short time in elections as we know and plans to do, to review the existing programme, and to comment on what we thought might be better done without making direct suggestions. We hope that there may be an introduction and basis for the discussion, I'm not talking about the budget. It's normal when we're doing this for the first time that men haven't achieved perfection in winning a plan like this, and getting it late, but I'm going to review the major factors we're going to make. I'm not going through everything, just because time is too short, but we decided to do as we think the legal committees should do, to be critical of what is presented here. Hopefully, this can be corrected and taken into account in the near future. Let's go first to what we call weakness and opportunity. I'm not going over the job, people can do research on it, it's more technical. We draw attention to the lack of information on the development of possessions. It is very important that we put it in the next national budget, for that is certainly a major factor in the development of the part of the State. In the subsection on economic growth and financial maintenance projections, we will draw attention to the fact that nonstop economic growth is the key to the plan. It is very important now that I believe, in the leading of elections, that the basis for which we expect to be established is by predicting the parties who predict these matters. Practical conditions have led to resolution of foreign inflation. Many reporters who came to the committee emphasized the balance, that it would be more necessary for the government conference to support the money policy. This is a natural test, not just for the majority of the government parties, but for all political parties in the controversies, the approach of these things. It is most tempting to promise very much in the event of an election. That may have been Lenska many times. It is only natural for humans to praise what they are about to fulfill. You will need to consider the basis for a plan, as well as how you can expect to pay in return for the expenses they promise. Here we are expected to reduce debt severely and if plans are made, we will be in debt to the world's most fortunate peoples. In that case, I will especially apply to OECD countries. This is essential for us to cope with tragedy. I note that the reason why we have been able to work as well as in the position that came up after the collapse of the financial situation was that the state's financial debt was closer to debt. Similarly, money debt had been paid a great deal over the years. If that had not been the case, the situation would have been difficult even to control, as we can see in the countries that suffered financial collapse and are in a very difficult situation. That's even. Because they had a huge debt for the financial breakdown, and when the debt became even greater, the person sees what that means. The most optimistic predictions of a decrease in debt mean that debt will become a debt despite a reduction of 662 billion. In 2021 and 39 billion dollars each year. It's a significant reduction. If I remember correctly, the interest rate was 80 billion. As this government began, it has reduced its debt by tens of billions. Still, it's a lot of money, and I think most of us would like to use it for something else. It is proper to bear in mind that if economic growth does not prove to be as extensive as expected, it will have a powerful effect. This is important in the programmes we take into account because these things are not necessarily necessarily going right by themselves. Of course, no better information is available today, but I think it's wise to remember that things can change, and if they change to worse, they will. We are particularly concerned about the tax issues. Although the phase was a good step during this terms in increasing tax efficiency, we are still lower when we compare ourselves with other OECD countries in that topic. Now, people can have all the opinions on how much taxes are supposed to be, but it would be better if there were more agreements that the tax system would be efficient and simple because it simply means that it produces more, less tax collections and more difficult to commit tax frauds - if there is a difference between tax collections and tax frauds. The official tax returns no greater percentage than in Iceland except Denmark. The tax returns to companies that the cost of insurance is virtually no higher than in Iceland. We have special taxes on financial companies and fishing grounds that are causing, including, a great deal of interest and nature according to the greater competitiveness of the enterprises. In itself, a respectable president, we are the only state in the OECD, last time it was taken out, which has net tax revenues from the fishing road. All other nations in OECD use public tax money to pay off that basic road. There must be a reason for joy. The nature of a case would be the nature of every person's idea of how he wants to change an arrangement in the seas, and probably to discuss it and look at it, but it would be bad if we walked in any way that made us in a place similar to other OECDs, i.e. that we were using public tax returns to pay down the road that we certainly did not do so many years ago. Necessary taxes are still off-limits. We need to look at people's peripheral taxes. The taxes are due to the complex interaction of income taxes and improvement, and the situation may easily be that although the individual raises something in the pay, the rise in it is actually very small and even the case, although I hope they are not in Iceland, it just doesn't increase anything and even diminish, as strange as it is. We also discussed the birth stocks and, based on the information given to us on the Committee, they will, in turn, call for an increase in the insurance fee of 0.35 percent, but I understand that most people, if not all political parties, have had the goal of reducing the insurance bill so that if people go to raise it, we have to look particularly at it. A table also discusses the insurance and its markets. I think we need to go over that tax base well for obvious reasons. Similarly, we stress that it is necessary and desirable to use a budget rule to increase the maintenance of good, since, fortunately, we are going, in general, in economic growth. We also need to be conservative when it comes to economic and financial regimes in a flash. We have many examples of failure, unfortunately. We don't go through all the shows, but we'll draw attention to that, for example. that, according to protocols, a 30% increase in the State Department and an increase in labour market donations are expected despite the continuing decrease in unemployment. Some of these increases to the Ministry of State are things that we have already committed to and linked to the rise in national production, but there is another link that is expected to pass through the realms that we make in the government interest groups that are considered to be preferred for a professional life. I can do it better later if someone is interested in asking about it. We stress that there is no need to raise expenses unless there are spending policies. Just as there is the worst way to save a man is to have a flat cut, the same is when men are on better ways to add. Then a flat percentage increase should not be achieved, on the contrary. The concept of the long - term plan of the State budget also involves setting goals on what human success will be achieved. It doesn't matter whether it's health, education, social, or whatever, because it's supposed to be a prime goal of achieving the results and then to look for the most practical ways to achieve them so that we can do as well as make the public's tax money as possible. We call attention to the actions of the government economy. There, 30 out of 110 suggestions have been made. The largest cohesion is due to the county, the police departments and health institutions, but it can be better if necessary. It is only 30 out of 110 suggestions, and it is important that we do more work and set goals regarding when we will succeed or do the work that humans are going to do. If you don't want to take any of these suggestions, just blow them off the table and replace them with some other suggestions. The Icelandic Country Association stressed to the committee that they wanted to shorten their elementary school and believed that this made it possible to be more effective in education. I think we should check it out. We draw attention to the decrease in high school that the money saved is entering the system, making it more expensive for high school. We will also draw attention to the increase in the cost of education's administrative sector by 340 million. K. from 2013 to 2013, there is room for us to make use of that money at the university if there is a political will. Something about this is a single cost, but this would have to be considered particularly because if we could do better at some degree, it would be without doubt at the university. We are particularly involved in the shopping and tenders that are among the most part of the legal committees have put great emphasis on. It is to be seen that a pot is widely broken when it comes to government shopping. Now the work has been done in an orderly way to correct it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The secretary of finance has represented the joint purchases of the institutions. The other day, five agencies in part of the state's A situation offered things like computers and paper. The savings in shopping these five institutions were some 90 million. K. and that's not little money. We focus on completing the induction of electronic accounts at the financial district, uplifting government shopping policies, and making all state institutions go to Orra for full perspective and information on individual purchases. We took special care of the Kingdom Halls. There we feel that there is much opportunity to save for the State, as well as to produce better results, to have more suitable housing for those institutions. However, there is a fault that government funds do not deposit in housing and that they do not show up in rent prices. In other countries, if government agencies pay market rents, the number of square feet is reduced. International criteria for the number of square metres in various other nations are 16 square meters. There are 23 square feet [3 sq m] here, but there is a significant decrease in number. For obvious reasons, the need for such housing needs to be reduced. A majority of the budgetary committees have made a suggestion that has been agreed on in financial terms, i.e. The council has agreed to propose a greater proportion of budgetary committees for e.g. To sell the house of Toll, and to find the business of another place, as well as the library of the people. It has long been authorized to sell the police station to another location. These are all examples of fine places, but perhaps not necessarily the work there is. That's something we'll be talking more about in the middle of nowhere. It'll be up to you in the next few days. We call attention to the dramatic change in the economy because of tourism. The extent of tourism has increased dramatically. In the last two years, the money industry has increased by 100 billion. The share of export service has been 18% since 2010 and will now be in accordance with the estimates of 34%. Iceland is on 18th of 141 over the most competitive tourist countries. The strength is like that, because the land is open and well connected to a flight. Safety and hygiene are also among the benefits of the country according to this assessment. It is important that we maintain it and increase our competitiveness. It is important to prioritize on this changed basis in this basic work, and we are especially referring to transportation, infrastructure, and communication. Also, in this section, we point out that projects can be slowed down as far as management and institutions are expected in the capital area. We are about to have a very large construction project in the capital area, such as a new hospital. It is wise for the government to take action when the economy is so relaxed. Clearly, it is not possible to do so when it comes to the hospital for reasons we know. But also because of their change in age, there is an enormous need to build more nursing homes, as well as to provide more efficient resources, resources more suitable for those who do not need a nursing home in the coming years and decades, for the simple reason that over the next ten years, those 67 years and older will increase by 50%. We suggest that men slow down the administration board and agencies in the capital area rather than look to nursing homes. Furthermore, we draw attention to this, and I think it's important for people to discuss the subject objectively, that we are taking a lot of risk when we put 70 to 90 billion dollars of money into construction at Keflavour Airport. Now there is no doubt that it is very important to take this initiative, but it is the responsibility of the taxpayers who will directly finance it. We hope that things here will work out very well forever and that our tourism will remain the way it is today, but experience will teach us that it is not default. All we need to do is examine a discussion in this hall about the apartment loans when men were about to expand his role. It's exactly like Istavia, it's only a company that's responsible for paying taxpayers, and in fact, there's also state responsibility for loans that's another matter. When a serious problem occurred, the account went directly to taxpayers and has now been a financial crash that corresponds to a new hospital, i.e. More than 50 billion bucks. ... fora relativelylittlehousemate. I'm not predicting anything or anything, but I'm just calling attention to the fact that it's important for us to spread the risk, even if it's all there is, but there are other factors that can be considered in connection with Istavia. I'm not going to do it here, but I'm going to draw attention to the fact that when we're talking about the prepared financing, we're doing what happens in other countries we're comparing ourselves, about 80% of the flight passengers going to and from Europe and in Europe are doing at the airports either private or mixed. I referred to the change in age of the nation that calls for a greater demand for health care. We need to change things accordingly. This long - term schedule certainly stresses health matters, as well as the general plan for the construction of the Hospital, now for the first time. However, we will draw attention to the need to have a more beneficial and better pay system, including the medical system, and to the importance of home care. The same is true of health insurance goals. These laws have taken full value and are aimed at quality and costing the service and when possible, the things that would be used to pay for or negotiate with the people who have the most practical solutions at any given time. This is simply a foreign role model, an example from the North countries, and has given a good share in other countries. We've taken the first steps, tops. Healthcare Minister did so by working on the list of waiting, including at the National Hospital, by making a productive contract that was made for the first time, if I remember correctly, on the DRG system. He has taken similar steps when it comes to health care, to determine the cost of that service, and to pay for a successful model, especially in the Salvaistown, Kópavogi. We see great changes in Icelandic society because the happy things are happening that people grow older than they used to, and then there are plans and agreements to increase the pension age from 67 to 70 years. I think it's about time. In 1891, the 70 - year - old age was first seen in Germany when Bismarck was a chancellor. At that time, the average age was 47 years. In 1971 he was in Iceland for 74.5 years, and this year he is 823 years, has increased by eight years since 1971, and will rise by another four years to 2065 if predictions are made. I believe that we should reduce the age difference existing in Icelandic society and will give a special Congress case that we will cancel the rules of law against people of 70 years and older working for the government. I don't think that's fair or sensible. It is obvious that since that law was passed, 1954, if I recall correctly, much has changed. This is a positive change. We are to welcome her, but we need to prepare for it. One of the factors involved is to give people greater flexibility, and that is to be done. If we talk about the link between a transport plan and a long-term government plan, they need to be harmonized better. There are several other factors in this committee study that are about 18 pages, if I remember correctly, and I can't cover them in detail but have tiped on things and maybe the biggest. Finally, I want to say what I said at the outset: This is a turning point. I want to wish everyone who has brought her happiness, especially the highest. Government and supreme. Secretary of finance. It's a pleasure that these laws have come through and we start working on them. These are the first steps, and I am quite convinced that these are great success steps for an Icelandic nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u26	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a fine speech. He was around many places, and there are many things that we can really ask about. The financial and financial agendas are both very important documentes and natural macropolitics, so the government is saying how it would establish its priorities for the next five years. I want to ask you why. A member of Congress whether he believes that with the program for health care until the next five years, he is responding to the call of 86 points. a person required his signature, i.e. The importance of health - care spending should be primarily. Counts 'em out. A senator that this plan is to answer that call? I'd like to question it. We can only look at the figures for hospital or hospital services where it is assumed that from 2007 the increase is 2.3 billion, that is, both for the Hospital Hospital and for the Akureyri Hospital, when the Landspians have said that only because of the population development and increasing average age, he would need more than 2 billion. In addition, there is an increasing need for more than 2 billion. The sale would have to go to nearly half a billion, so we have already begun to see that, in the first year and in the years that followed, hospital services in the country will be in trouble and in fact, will need to reduce services rather than increase as the nation has called.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. There is no question that this long - term schedule sets priorities for health care, as the government department has established the entire terms of the ideal. No matter what numbers we nose or look at it, it's not just about what you're going to do, it's about what you're going to do, it's about what you're going to do. For the first time, we have a long - term plan, a budget for the Land Hospital, and funds for three nursing homes. However, we stress - it's not a budget, it's a long - term plan - as shown in my case that we believe that priorities are even more relevant to that number and number, for example. that instead of going to the board of directors immediately, we should rather go to a nursing home, so to speak. This is not a budget, it is a long - term plan, but we will draw attention to the fact that we too need to follow other ways, and then we should learn from the more successful nations. Then we're talking about performing the health insurance Act, that we're covering the service costs, and we deal with those who give the service, including the Land Hospital. The land hospital has called for this for at least a decade, even longer, because it wants to have a comparable funding, as did the Hospitals that the National Hospital compares them to in the North. This is a way we want to develop in because it is the best way to reach the goals we want to achieve, since our goals are, of course, to give the best service, to take most of our actions, to take down the waiting list, and to have not been made up, of course, to me, no better methods than these. This long-term schedule should be primarily all of its characteristics, and, indeed, the greater part's opinion, that health priorities are being established, as has been done throughout this ideal period. It is a cause for rejoicing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. But he will probably forgive me, even though I cannot read it from the figures published in the plan to answer the call to order health issues first. But, hey. A senator spoke of the need to distribute the risk of building at Keflavík Airport. I want to ask you why. A senator whether it's a risk if the government's power or government funds are not, but then he runs through the largest airport in the country and the portal into other countries, is it not simply a matter of national security that the state rests and builds up the entrances at Keflavík Airport?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u29	A respectable president. It's only because of health care. Here are the plans for the construction of the Hospital and the building of nursing homes. One can examine how saving was done during the last terms, both in proportion and in numbers, and then see the comparison of what is being done today. When considering this, humans cannot conclude any other conclusion than that their priorities have been established by health professionals. But that will never be enough. That's what all the mercenaries know, that's the nature of the seminary. But both in the government budget and in the budget of the past few years, in the current government, and also in the Committee, there are always priorities for health care. With regard to Keflavík Airport, it is not a suggestion to sell Keflavívík Airport. Rather, it is talking about putting the funds up to 70,00090 billion into that project. At the same time, we can do better after that, we have a airport that originally was to be heard directly under Istavia but are seriously ill. We're not using domestic flights. Of course, if we put all the risk on this increase, this enormous amount of money, we're risking the government and the taxpayers, that says ourselves. [[The president calls.]] So the question is not entirely appropriate, Mr. Honorable President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I like the opinion of the majority of the objects, various points in what I agree with, although I don't always agree with the policy. In this regard, the tax growth of a subject's subject is referred to on page 6. 8 in the committee opinion. The greater part is concerned that the cost may be overreached, it can be ignored, and it suggests that, in effect, a financial review will occur compared to a lower budget. It's, for example. pointed out that in the latter part of the period, a 30% increase in foreign production is expected, and further contributions to labour markets are referred to. It points to something that most part would probably like to reduce. Today, these two may be relatively small in the large context, such as foreign affairs, although, of course, it is always normal to save where possible, but these are not the larger amounts. Where do you see it? A member of the United States suggests that a convention can be arranged? At the same time, we will likely agree that we face challenges like those faced. in various structures, even tools, computer options, and other problems that have been ignored. Where do you see it? A senator imagined that there could be some savings on the side of expenses?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's warm comments on the good opinion of the committee. I think it must help the government to get this kind of document because it's very critical and I think it was our job. I'm not sure that much of the legal committee is doing so in general, at least at times people have been trying to enhance the beauty of things. We are now bright ahead, but we should always be on guard. We considered this very well, but as noted, we did not suggest changes in the budget. That's what's gonna be waiting for those who take over after the next election. But small things do one thing, and all of them are money. We're here to refer to things. In the foreign languages, we refer to practical measures. We refer to the labour market administration, how it has developed for some reason. We talk about the auctiones and the State's housing business and change our priorities in that regard. Indeed, it's right next to what's going on. A senator with the wood, we need to find ways to build them up and finance them. When we look at the changed situation we Icelanders are in with the tourists, they use a lot of this wood, drive on the roads, they're using too little airports, we'll draw attention to it, we have to decide how we're going to finance it. Will we have Icelandic taxpayers pay everything to build up for tourists? Of course, Icelandic taxpayers are often also tourists, but they must be especially careful that it is not wise for the Icelandic taxpayer to pay for all that infrastructure. For good reason, we draw attention to this, but we did not go further in this first committee's regard of a national budget. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u32	A respectable president. Hv. A senator sort of brought the discussion right into my next question, which was just the roadside, about the tourists. We, in less than 3rd, have a better future, believe that the tourism can be taxed to a greater extent than currently, I'm referring in particular to the top level of merit tax for a bedside. There's a political distinction. The committee considers it even necessary to take roads that could be involved in a private business or such. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation has also said that there is a possibility that we need to take some road construction, transportation, where users are more paying. This is suggested by the committee's opinion. Watch your step. A senator might think further on what we can visualize in this regard? I'm sure we'll agree that we need to go to a mass buildup on the road, but either we have to tax it, with taxes, or we have to go to some kind of user charge on the road. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What are we talking about in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u33	A respectable president. I think it's important to remember that tourism is a very young industry. Happily, we still live up to the expectations of tourists, but we can hardly be expected. You can feel it when you travel around the country, that there is not only a moving agency that is keeping very good but also something else that seems to be merely the focus of the economy but not of long - term interest. Of course, we need to take into account that we are comparing the tourism with those who have been available for decades and who have even received support when they first started. We don't have support for the transport services with direct support, I hope we're not going there, but let's keep in mind that when we tax them, that's a factor. However, my experience is that a tourist may not be around the world, but very widely, that it pays for the service you get. When driving a road, e.g. In Europe, you pay for it. If you use a toilet position at where you come in, you probably feel like paying for it, because all of this costs money. The question, then, is who pays? I have to admit, Mr. Honorable President, that I think it's normal for those tourists who come here and use their service to pay for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u34	Madam President. I don't think there's any disagreement in this room on the importance of the methodology underneath, i.e. to be organized and disciplined in terms of government interest and planning at least to medium-term. In fact, I believe that there must be a basis for the development of a long-term national economy in which it is looked not just for years but even decades into the future and the Council well understood to mark this in ours, so that preparation should be subject to the system, the Senate resolution proposed by the speaker. When it is said that this is being done with such a plan for the first time, it should be used in foibles, since such a plan has, of course, been used in the past few years. Thus, in the spring of 2009, a government budget appeared for an extended period of time, laying down lines on how we would get the money back into a sustainable state and get out of the mess. That plan was updated and distributed as a Senate document and published as a special publication, both 2011 and 2012. So it is right to make this advance talk about being in the first place involved in this plan. But in the sense of public finances, we certainly have come to a new place, that is correct. What I think is the main weakness of this strategy is that it is in the spirit of the right policy running on a very low percentage of the state's primary budgets of gross production. This plan is slightly better than the highest. The secretary of finance showed this last year and met earlier, where these expenditures were expected to function directly as the proportion of GDP. It's time for them to take their place. It's even The reason that the state's investment level will be too low, totally self-involved, or 1,33/41.5% of gross domestic product. I want to ask you why. Senator: What is the argument of the greater part that it will succeed, e.g. Based on the data spilling from all over us on the state of the road system that is completely breaking down in our hands and unable to tolerate this increased traffic, etc.? [[The president calls.]] How do representatives of the greater part justify driving during the next few years unchanged and such a low investment level?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u35	A respectable president. Without wanting to do this, there is no doubt that the public financial law is a turning point in this matter. Now, we will discuss a long-term budget in terms of the last few months, which has never been done before, and that is the basis for future governments. It's good to have a solidarity. Of course, these are huge changes, the nature of the case, but people have not just put their finger into the air in recent decades but have seen long - term changes in various ways. But this song is a new one. I think we should celebrate. A respectable president. One of the things that this is about when we think about longer periods of time is the fluctuation. We focus on this in the committee opinion, and I draw back attention to the fact that we do not make adjustments because of the reasons I mentioned earlier. Rather, we draw attention to what we feel we need to consider in particular. The infrastructure is quite correct and has not been maintained, e.g. or new projects, there has been very little about it in recent years. After the financial breakdown, individuals may debate whether they have set priorities correctly. But what we always need to take into account is a major interest in this. It's not just a long-term way to look, it's a long-term way to think this as a fluke too. Our problems now, for example. When we are going to the Land Hospital, which is very important and is already needed, it is how it will affect other projects. There's a tremendous demand right now. There are construction panels all over the place. We're moving back into a foreign labor force. Of course, we do not want to act that way, and it is the responsibility of those who work out this further, that we set off the inflation and threaten the stability that has been more successful here. On the other hand, I can agree with that. A senator, and it is stated repeatedly in the program, that it is desirable to plan further priorities in order to enter the infrastructure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u36	Madam President. In fact, I believe the current government has made a big mistake by not maintaining the rhythm that was set in the past government when an investment was added by the government's investment programme during 2012/2013, but by cutting it all together and then maintaining the same proportion that is not sustainable. History teaches us that the government's investments need to be a minimum of 2◯2.5% of GDP just to keep things gone. Besides, society would have to invest for so much as 1.5%, but neither party will. The government's investment level is extremely low. Of course, there is a need to be careful that such an economic effect exists. You can even say that. So if such investments are made in financial abundance, of course, it would not be wise to start adding money to the current economic situation. If filled and distributed wisely, e.g. Road construction and maintenance projects are evenly distributed throughout the country; there is nothing to kill people in many other areas of the country, there is much to do in those areas. Hv. A senator often talks about the debt that lies on the state's future pension bonds. [[The president calls.]] That's good. We need to consider paying on them. [[The president calls.]] But we're creating the same kind of debt by walking on the inside of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u37	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that. A senator is glad we want to pay off the pension bonds. Ex-fiancé. In his day, the prime minister Geir H. Haarde, who used the most, had no shouts about it. It is hoped that people will be getting a better understanding of it. There has been a great deal of success in the maintenance of this government, but of course it can be done better. But if we were to talk about failure then it would have been better to my opinion, we are talking about past errors, that men had followed what Persson Göran suggested when he visited after the financial collapse, and that they immediately made organizational changes in the public but would not have a flat cut, and would also try to maintain the level of construction as much as possible. But something's over. We're not gonna change that. At that time, traders fled the country, and the work could have been taken much cheaper than it was now. We have that problem, just like what we're doing. The senator mentioned, that it has to be arranged without bringing a spell. [[The president calls.]] That is what we are facing now. But we agree that we need to have an internal structure.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u38	Madam President. The first smaller section of the budget considers it necessary to make long - term decisions on public finances such as this, although it is clear that forecasts of economic activities are so far ahead dependent on a certain uncertainty. In view of this, it is important for governments to be aware that there is less economic growth than expected for the next five years can affect government income and the estimated profits easily turn upside down. The first minor items also want to point out that economic growth does not predict prosperity among the inhabitants of the country and that it is far from a measure of national prosperity and happiness. It is the most important priority of money for welfare and the righteous division of national cake. Official financial law adopted during the last assembly took a huge step in preparing for funding and better perspective on public finances and their impact on the economy. The Laws were performed largely during the last terms, including ... oftheCompany. On the other hand, the article that established official financial legislation with a new government that deals with financial order could not be accepted because of its limitations in the balance of the economy. The union wants to eliminate legal issues on financial rule, but instead it requires a new government to set aside a rousing financial rule for terms under their individual circumstances. In the face of stability, the government's state financial policy and the national financial policy of Iceland's Federal Bank work together to reduce economic stability and to ensure economic stability. If government funds take heavy investments and at the same time lower taxes, the hope is realized and the potential for a negative germ that we Iceland know is all too well. The late bank notes in its review of financial policy that if it is not considered to reduce the investment of government employees during the period, other expenditures or government increase in income should be reduced, e.g. ... witha higher taxance. Clearly, the weaknesses of financial and financial policies are on the side of the income gate and are created because a government has renounced income during the election season. The government has significantly reduced hunting costs, de-country taxes, and energy taxes, reduced the equality of the income tax system, and given to tourists a discount of merit tax. At that time a special bank tax was collected that went directly to the loan agencies to subsidize the prices of some homes, though most of the richest debts. The combined income of the state's budget has dropped by tens of billions during the election season. At the same time, there is a great need for investment in the transport system to repair welfare services and social security. The first small section of the budget is severely critical of this government's priorities. The Union stresses changes in taxes and expenditures so that there will be room for the restoration of the health system and better schools, for transportation and law enforcement, and for the general public at all levels of life. The first few smaller things come to the criticism of the National Social Security Association of Iceland on the priorities of the financial programme for the next five years and the lack of social well - being and the improvement in the community. The success of the plan will increase, and the survival of the welfare community is weakened. There are clear signs in many of the plans. Madam President. The financial program presents changes in child - welfare. Child damages in this country are already almost like the strength to the poor and very different child reforms in other parts of the North countries. The main objective of the government, according to a new financial programme, is that child reform will be supported only by the most efficient families, and the International Remuneration Fund is beginning to propose a revision of the child - reform system. The sea advised the government to simplify the system and direct payment to a low - income agency with a higher percentage of decrease compared to pay. The fund also suggested that single - parent families be paid no higher than domestics. In this way only one fixed money will be paid for children under 18 years of age and with no more than three children. Such an arrangement is nowhere else known in the North countries. Remarkably, in part 1, the government is looking at other Norwegian countries, looking into the ideas of the World Bank on child development. In general, improvements are not related to income, and their goal is to match the status of children with those who do not share children. Unemployable child reforms also reduce female independence and employment participation less than income - related benefits. Young families in the North will remember the support the child support they give, and their equal role is important for society. Even economists would not take to consider the International Cash Fund's proposal for child reform in the form of poorness. The Norwegian child - reform system is a role model for the United States, leaving them with good experience for children and their parents. If the next government is the same, they will be behind child families and raise child - welfare rates so that others will enjoy them. In this way, a smaller portion of the study points out specifically that the budget is expected to include 500 of you. K. in a month, not 600 yous. K. as foretold. In addition, the 12-month extension of the birth serpent's diet is not made up of a special budget but indicates that the change in observation will have to be included in the insurance. If that is the case, it is likely that there will be an increase in the insurance bill to extend the birthworm. Part 1 wants other routes to be sought to bridge the gap that may be created by the change between contributions from insurance to the stocks and the expenses of a longer birth reserve. However, social and housing minister has presented plans for both the increase and the increase in maximum payment. Let's make it the highest bill. So a minister of law needs to change the plan and assume a considerable higher budget for the maternity. In the financial program, interest costs for interest are expected to decline gradually in the coming years as income increases and debt rates continue to rise. However, the strategy assumes that the amount of money and the cost of the system will be increased annually so that total system donations remain unchanged in the absolute value. However, it is noted that the plans for increased support for those who buy their first estate may, according to incident, indicate that making contributions for interest would gradually be lost over time, while the early purchases would be increased in another form. Now such ideas were presented at a press conference in Harpa on August 15th. Thus, growth improvements can be expected to decline, as the financial programme announces. In this light, the government's new concept of support for its first purchase must be appreciated. First, consider whether the reduction in taxation of the special savings is greater than the interest compensation, and second, whether the status of young people will actually be better at making the needed changes. Along with the so - called correction earlier in the season, the government reduced interest rates, lost child benefits, and even made the money cuts more cruel. So it is only the wealthier and those who owe more than that after the so - called correction of the government. Those who had previously fallen within definition growth reforms see a slight decrease in their payments, but growth improvements are much lower. Many homes are thus left behind with much less provision. So the less - paying ones themselves for the correction called, not the demanding banks, as promised. Those who come best from the government's first system change, i.e. decrease in interest to a special debt, a home that previously did not deserve growth because of great possessions and high income. So the government worked hard to reduce the debt of the richest people in the country. On the other hand, there are many who remain in a worse position. For them, it would have been so much better if the government had not tried to keep any of the things promised by the advance party for the last election. The budget cannot be read whether rent support for tenants is fully financed. In Iceland, nearly one third of the homes are rented. It is totally unacceptable if one more time they leave that group without housing support comparable to the one they get who buys an apartment. In addition, a smaller portion of 1st points out that the structure of the full-body formulation is not properly funded, and the number of apartments needs to be increased over the next few years in accordance with need. Madam President. The financial program notes that changes in the social security system are being made to simplify and improve the interests of the elderly. Now social and housing minister has put its bill on the Ministry's website for review. The changes are said to cost more than 5 billion. In 2017 and a total of 33 billion dollars. in the next ten years. The budget does not assume this cost. According to financial guidelines, the objective of the government is to support the elderly, who have very little or no income to further their social security benefits. There seems, however, to be no room for financial resources to achieve that goal. In the 2015 fiscal bill and the 2016 financial bill, a smaller share of the importance of improving social security increased at the same time as the country's general pay raise, and in the same way as the lowest wage of up to 300 you have. K. month's pay. This was rejected by the government and the norm. Generals. In view of this, the financial aims of the budget for men who need to rely on the insurance system become extremely disloyal. If public security bills had increased on May 1, in the same proportion as the lowest wage, this change would have cost the state funds over 5 billion in 2016 or about the same as it cost state funds to take the first step of the government in reducing taxes in the income tax system. The government decided to prioritize, in a way, the right of the 700 you have. K. during the month 6 you. K. in months, in addition to the lowest remuneration, the elderly and the micro-pigs reimbursed in accordance with the lowest remunerations. The union has its policy to improve the quality of the elderly and the poor, making sure that these groups are not kept poor in Iceland as they are now, and the government plan until the next five years does not plan to correct it. Madam President. In recent years much has been discussed about the construction of health care. Your call for 86. Iceland's restoration of the health system and 11% of GDP to the health system is unique. Politicians need to answer how to reach that goal and to direct money on that project. The government's budget for the next five years will not meet these requirements, nor will the financial resources that will change health care for the better. The bad situation of the hospital is that there is reason to worry about the safety of patients if there is no rapid improvement in the coming years. If there was a demand for 11% of GDP to be introduced to health care, the Landspians would receive about 18 billion dollars. increase. It is a good long - term goal, and it is not realistic to expect such an increase in one step, but Iceland should be heading for it. To survive with the same services and maintenance of accommodations that are now needed, the National Hospital would need 5.3 billion dollars. additional next year. The number of patients in the hospital is now about 1.7% per year. The Budget plan allows for an increase in hospital service, both for the Hospital and for the Akureyri Hospital to be 2,3 billion dollars. If this government program becomes a reality, it is clear that the services of the Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri will be drawn in the coming years. This will not be a pleasure and a protest of the 1st will be a minor part of the government's policy. For the next five years, the government budget for health care contradicts the public's appeal. Patients have increased as a result of the nation's older age, but the development of these developments has not been followed by hospitalisations and clinics in recent decades. In contrast, the share of patients in the system has been progressively increasing. However, patients should not have to pick up their wallet when they need medical attention, and Icelanders will be late to accepting less and more expensive service than are known to our neighbors. We in the United States want to improve health care, and it's possible if there's a political wish. Clearing our priorities, our interfaith efforts, and our organization will bring us a better status in a few years. First and last, governments need to make money in order to qualify for health care. A lower share of 1 suggests that the use of the resources, such as fishing grounds, is inexplicable to health. A lot of discussions have been made about doctors'status in Iceland, and worrying that young doctors will not return after school. The problem of the Land Hospital is even There is a need for far more doctors than there is for them. The situation of nurses is no less disturbing. During the next three years, some 700,900 nurses reach retirement age. Instead, only 450 graduates, many of whom will choose other jobs. The decrease in nurses would have far greater effects over the years than the decrease in doctors, and this must be found ways to grow in the class. Other classes that are mostly filled by women also require government attention, such as radiologists, physical therapists, and biotechnology experts. Even now, there is a need to take action to promote the university in these areas and to account for the cost of this in the government budget. Along with the rightness of the hospitals, for the next five years there has to be a rapid and reliable increase in funding to support health care for the country, to build up the Hospital in Akureyri, to spend long periods of waiting for needed measures rapidly and safely, to start a nursing home for the elderly and long-term ills, where people have been well cared for by personal service, to improve access to mental and psychological services with emphasis on children and young people and legal user-controlled personal assistance. Then it is important to have plans for the construction of a new land hospital on Ring Road. It might seem that there was a general agreement for these goals, but it does not seem to be. For the next five years, the government budget does not include the increase in budgets needed to maintain present conditions, let alone to improve the ministry. If we are to receive better health care in the coming years, a new government that understands that health is the basis for prosperity and happiness must establish a new financial program. The high school situation has been difficult in the past few years. During the entire high school years before collapse, economics took place. So when maintenance of a crash was required, the cut of very little fat was needed. The cost of school is now increasing temporarily beyond the budget because of a short period of study to the student's test. In some schools, nearly twice the book study system will be started for the next three years, and this project will be funded by adding funds to high school over the next three years above what the budget is planning. During the last two years of the financial program, high school management is more temperate. Part 1 emphasizes that after the change has taken place, the schools will eventually enjoy the economy that will result from the shorter student test and may be made possible to offer a wide range of study opportunities and additional services to students. This calls for a 1st smaller item, since no entry into the public high school education by age. On the other hand, the university situation will not look too good if an existing plan is made. She doesn't look so good for her whole class. If changes are not made, the university will have to reduce the number of student courses and/or the number of students. The continued financial deficiency will have a major negative impact on science, economic development, and finally on Iceland's competitiveness. The first part of my memory considers it necessary to set an ambitious education policy that takes into consideration that in modern society the university is an important driving force. In accordance with education policy, a financial program would then be developed that made it possible to fulfill policy. Travel is just a short period of time in the country's basic activities, but no one holds the board of directors properly. Current governments seem incapable of fulfilling the important role of establishing a policy on how to be most practical and best able to develop the future, assess the costs of tourism, and what is considered to be the preferred economic environment for major growth. The budget does not show that funding is expected on essential infrastructure. If nothing is to be done, Iceland's reputation as a tourist restaurant is likely to be damaged, that of tourists in this article, and that is all with poor financial consequences. The first minor element emphasizes that action will be taken before bad ends, reminding the UN's emphasis on health - care and patient transportation, the police will be able to take care of the population as well as the tourists, the maintenance of road roads, and the safety of tourists will be improved in a more consistent way. At the same time that the number of tourists is greatly increasing, tax revenue is reduced by each of them. The article is allowed to grow in a revolutionary way, while tourists pay at the same time a valuable tax from a lower level of sleep and recreation. If that exception had disappeared, about 10 billion would be provided. In a treasure of the state, at least. The first smaller section considers it necessary to control evolution and provide the tourism public management conditions that provide income to build wood. Thus, tourists pay a high level of worthwhile extra tax for housing and recreation. It creates an income in a wealth of government that goes from building up that will benefit the article and its inhabitants throughout the country. In addition to significant improvements in the budget set up in the maintenance of the road system, transport planning and financial planning are necessary, but only if the budget is changed and the planned transport budget is increased. Madam President. The government's financial program for the next five years is drawing up a vision that is not consistent with the expectations of the people of the land to the welfare of our country. If it succeeds, it may take tens of billions of dollars each year to make money that can be used to improve the public's standard of living. The tax reductions that have been done during the season have been first, with little to be done to those most afforded and with little benefit to those with low and intermediate income. At the same time, from the government's plan, it is clear that the interiors of society will not be built up in the coming years, and public service will remain the gap within. The government's response to this development is an increase in private business in health care, schools, and transportation. The answer is private business, not public service. It is not a vision of the future that embraces the 1st smaller section or the United States that highlights the equal opportunity of people to enjoy good health, education, and security in daily life.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It raises a lot of questions. Now, people can have all the opinions on child repair, but I have to admit that I can't understand how a child's recovery system can add to it if it is built up to the least of those who have. The view that this is wrong or is to be done differently from income - related child benefits is more likely to reduce the difference between income groups, not increase the difference, as it were. Senator. What caught my attention was that in Committee 1, memory, expenses and very large amounts of money are very high. I'm trying to figure out how to finance these things. However, it is clear that the rate of growth in transport should be about 10 billion. Then I wanted to ask. A senator who speaks of a price for resources in the committee opinion and in his speech: What is the price? Then I'd like to ask, too. A senator of hunting warrants, who spoke of the full price of fishing warrants: How does that come about? Also, there is other funding for raising birthday expenses, not extra insurance. It would be nice to have a similar answer. Also, if it is correctly understood that the thought is, if the United States has anything to say, to restore this tax of property, which now landed primarily on the older cities, called a wealth tax. You can understand when you read the Committee's opinion that it's the will of the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u40	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the question. But first of all, child reforms. Child support should lie down with each child and balance the child's position with that of others. We in the United States would like the income tax to be step-separated, and there would be the entry of the income connection, but the aim should be for the failure of child support unless the cost of abduction could be considered. I'd like to look to the Norwegian states as a model for a change in the tax system. Norwegian countries are thought to be the best welfare countries in the world, where peers have been most often in the majority of the governments and have determined how communities have been built up. The political arm of the labor movement has been the most effective and public protection. Of course, with our taxes, we have a long way to reach what happens elsewhere in the North countries, which is where we should be heading. Hv. A senator spoke of fishing fees. I want us to move on to the Offeys' way and order out the labour warrants. The current government has dropped the fishing rate by 9 billion. At least we can. receive it back by offering the resources and even more if the invitation is made in the same way that it now happens in the Faeroe Islands. Only the simplest. A government entered the income tax system by removing the intermediate step cost us 11 billion. [[The president calls.]] The energy tax cost us $2 billion and the wealth tax is over 10. I'll talk more about the money tax in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u41	A respectable president. This prince of child care is exactly the same as that. A senator criticizes the government for, in fact, that the correction was not related to income, which, in fact, came primarily for the benefit of the intermediate class. It's exactly the same prince of child support because I'm talking about payable child support, so there's no way you can talk about it in the context of a special equation. Hv. A senator, if I correctly understand it, feels that the tax and income taxes of individuals should be reused or reused, but this does not appear directly in the opinion. I asked why. The senator's fee for the resources, because it's considered merely a reference to the fishing warrants, and if I understand why. A senator right, she's asking for a fishing warrant. True, the hosts offered only a very small portion, but it would be good to know how. A senator sees it as just a small part or how large and on what basis. But I understand why. A senator like that, she'll correct me if I'm wrong, that she wants to restore a so-called wealth tax. I'd be fine if you were. A senator would better explain the other funding of birthday or holiday, whether this funding should be related to some of the expenses that have been paid, or to what tax growths are involved. I'll now admit this has become a bit much, we've got the energy tax, we've got an increase in individual income taxes, a 10 billion tax increase in tourism. However, the resources to be paid for and for them are unclear. And also with regard to the exports and fishing warrants. What is it? A senator just talked about it? Is he talking about all the fishing grounds?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u42	Madam President. Ask me what. There are many subjects and many subjects with long discussions, but I need to find a way to answer them in two minutes. First, in support of family members. Clearly, we need to be more supportive of family members, whether by means of a child - reform system that we need to improve, not only to the poorest people, but also to lie down with family members with middle income at least. We need to extend our birth certificate and raise our guidelines there. The reduction of births in this country is not just news, but it's a big economic issue. It is very important that we make it possible for young people to have children. This is important for the future of the country and the economy. Therefore, I feel that although there is a insistence on it, it is likely that the insurance will need to be increased if it is to be paid at the expense of a birth vacation reserve, to cover costs at both the increase in the pay and the extension of the birthor. I don't think it's acceptable. I don't want to raise the insurance money because it's the most aggressive thing in small and medium-sized companies. Therefore, I say, we pay from the state's fund the difference, we find ways to stand with children's families so that they literally can afford to have children because it really matters to our economy for the future. In terms of the wealth tax, it is a property tax, and there were faults on it. A senator knows both. However, these faults can be removed and taxed by people of big estate and put in a government fund to improve the welfare of the welfare system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u43	Madam President. I'm going to do a little good over the Committee opinion of 2 smaller parts of the left green, which is about Congress resolutions on financial and financial policies based on government financial laws that are to replace the law of No. 88/1997. These laws form a foundation and a framework of public finances with regard to policies, planning, and budget making. On the other hand, existing Parliamentary guidelines include statements on government policy targets and on government financial agendas at a time, as well as goals and predictions of public financial development during the time of effect. So, like the law, the interpretation proposals are policy-makers, bearing the marks of the dominant forces at a time. Indeed, arrangements to bring government financial management to a better standing were timely and will hopefully be of benefit to Icelandic society. In view of this, the existing contemporaneous proposal is a cause for rejoicing, but the same cannot be said of various schemes and policies presented there, and some of the presumptions seem slim, especially those involved in valuation of the property of the State due to the so - called stability. According to the Official Economics Act, every year a synoptic proposal for these policies is to be submitted, i.e. One about course and one about the plan. There should be a logical context between these proposals that should be used. The financial agenda is inferred that it does not contain a paper on how to adhere to the baseline values set in 2 mg. Section 6. a law on government finances or coverage of the conditions of financial policy and financial programmes, as stated in Article 7. The law. As it is not, financial policy does not form the basis for the budget for which it is intended. Of course, it is wrong that the proposal was given the same day at the General Assembly and taken into the previous session. At the same conference, of course, the council should take the course of action before the plan arises so that the policy has been weighed and assessed before the program is due. I certainly hope this will not be happening from now on, for it is a loss of the effectiveness of the methods here intended to achieve and be introduced by the law on public finances. The poem also applies to the legal process of public finance that the financial Council has not discussed the suggestions as it should be done according to Article 13. The evaluation of whether to follow the baseline financial policy and to meet its criteria is therefore not as mandatory. We're meeting with a financial hearing this morning on a financial committee. There's a policy, a procedure, and something like that. I hope that's good. Surely this is done for the first time. Sustainableness, caution, stability, firmness and transparency are the baseline values and the plans are based on and in Article 7. It is recommended that these programmes meet the criteria for maintaining a positive overall balance over a period of five years, that the annual rates never exceed 2.5% of gross domestic product, and further total debt, except for biodegrading and business debt, and the rest of the funds and banks, less than 30% of the gross domestic product. Formerly, much more criticism came from various sources, including those of members of Congress on the left green. When the bill was discussed at the council, we opposed those regulations. It was noted that the narrow conditions of the law could limit the possibility of the government in order to cope with economic hardship through the stimulation process and that strict and burdensome rules could prove to be so contrary and contrary to economic structure. So it could be that the rules will be avoided or used to avoid them, as we know in present financial laws. Thus, criticism of the standards set out in connection with the implementation of laws on public finances is still valid. For example, the main objective of a government law on government finances is 1st. 1st par. The law is to promote good economic management and the robust and responsible government of public finance. This is also true of the synonyms made here on the basis of the law and therefore takes the committee's opinion of these grounds. In accordance with the strategy in the synonym, the proportion of gross domestic product product will be unchanged at the time of the synonym 18.1◯18.2%. At that time, the proportion of taxes of gross domestic product production is expected to increase from 11.5% to 11.9% in the next year and be close to the end of the programme. As reported, the share of income tax in government funding during the current government's work period has also been reduced, and it has also disappeared from the application of revenue taxation in income balances introduced during the left management period during the last term by a three-stage tax system in which the stress rate of the income and the gain of a wealth tax. The current government made it possible for its first job to overcome further pressures on wealth taxes, the pressures of income taxation on individuals have been reduced, and the intermediate rate of taxation will be suspended at the next year's end. Understandably, these measures do not help any taxpayers other than those who are well paid by income and reduce the balance effect of income taxation by the above tax reforms. Governments have also canceled general goods, and tolls to products other than food have been dropped, or their demolition has been ordered. At that time, a significant change in the worthy taxation system was made as its lower level was increased from 7% to 11%, as we remember, but the general step decreased from 25.5% to 24%. These changes took place on January 1, 2015, and their long - term objective was to increase the government's income from a valuable tax. However, in recent years the pressures of indirect taxes have resulted in a slightly reduced share in the government's income, while increasing the share of worthwhile taxes is expected to increase the percentage of indirect taxes during the programme period. It is assumed that the taxpayer will drive about 43% of the tax A-part of the state's budget, from 2017/2021, while taxation and services will become about 51% taxpaying during the same period. It should be said that from the ranks of senior candidates at the Council, protests against the above - mentioned worthwhile tax changes involved an increase in the increase in taxation of food. Yet, those who raped them gave up their opposition to promises of certain tax - system changes to counterweight changes. The increase in early child reforms and growth reforms was largely reversible by transfer of the limits of declines, while the general population lived with a higher estimate of food and a lower provision. The high rate of taxes on product and service, in which the share of worth taxation is overwhelming, shows that the design of tax policy has been overlooked in the role of the tax system in recovery. The consumers of goods and services pay the same value of taxes regardless of income or economy, and where a merit tax returns on the various needs of the public, it is obvious that the relative tax burden of those who have little to play that most of their earnings are going to be faster than the remunerations that can put aside their income. Is this, of course, critical, evidence that the government does not respect the use of the tax system in an equalizing way? The tax policy displayed in the budget will increase the gap between the rich and the poor; thus, it will be strongly rejected by less than 2. Governments and government policy play an important role in the Congress resolution of the financial agenda. Is it because the State's debt is always an important component of financial affairs? During the fall of 2008, financial collapse, a large debt fell on the state funds that still remain to a great degree, making this part of the state's budget more important than otherwise, and policy measures in the state's debt would also be important. By the end of 2012, the debt of state funds was equivalent to 87% of GDP, the first year after the collapse as the total debt of state funds as a share of GDP. This was among the proof that the left government mastered the terms of government and laid down the foundation that they have since lived on. This rate was about 67% at the end of 2015, and according to the proposal we are offering, it will be determined that by the end of 2017 it will be about 30%, as expected in the financial guidelines for state funds. It should be noted that during the period of work, the previous government has established a two - fold budget plan. Then, in June 2009, the secretary of finance reported a budget on the balance of the budget in 2009 to the General Assembly, and in the fall of 2011, the publication The Kingdom Population arrived 2012,2015. A budget report from the Ministry of Financial Affairs. The above - mentioned publications describe the aims of a decline in the state's debt relative to the economic situation and the prospects of their writing time and the main policy that is still being followed. A decrease in the state's debt to the legal maximum ratio and economic stability are presented as government equipment. In accordance with this government's plans to use the so - called stability budget paid by the two - year - old financial companies in connection with their contributions and the promise of excommunication of a currency stick. Of course, the law of public financial debt is challenging and motivates governments to reduce public debt severely. There is nothing to consider, however, that there will be a further reduction in the terms of the state's debt as so far as the debt is very burdensome, but attention should be paid to the fact that plans for such action are based on a relatively weak basis and that there may be some conflicting goals. In many Western lands economists and politicians are evading such standards, and they have also found criticism of the subversive policy that has marked measures in public finance in Western lands and that are believed to deepen and prolong the crisis, resulting in an inequities and the welfare system being weakened. According to government plans for the decline of the State's gross debt, the government's interest payments are expected to be about 20 billion dollars. less at the end of the strategy period than it was in the spring of 2015. The funds thus have to be handled to build up the interiors of society, to reduce taxes, and to trust in the basic services of the state. In view of the possibility that demand teams are expected to trigger inflation and to create a foreign trade hall, promises to decrease taxes and other public pay attention and surprises are particularly difficult to reduce demand expansion. However, while the government's strategy seems to be relatively loose in this regard, and contrary to the views that have repeatedly appeared in the reports of money - policy committees that warn against tax reductions and that they oppose the aims of reducing the management growth, it is even more evident when considering the so - called stabilisation proposal and intended contribution to the decline of the state's debt. In this discussion it cannot be avoided to recall that when governments's plans for renovation of the fallen financial companies and deconstruction were presented in June 2015, there was an estimated 39% stable tax on the total stocks of the financial companies that fell in the fall of 2008 and assumed that such taxes could yield up to up to 850 billion government funds. They were associated with this set of stable tax laws. However, the smell of the matter led to a forced agreement over the development of the broilers. As a result, in place of the tax, the stock market fund paid stability donations and was estimated at a total of 379 billion on the basis of the short contract. After all these deeds at the government fund all the money in Iceland Bank, 98.2% at the Lands Bank, and 13% at Arion Bank. The largest single part of the stability process consisted of a piece of cash in Iceland, which worth less than 185 billion in production. The assessment of the value of stocks in banks, which went up in stability, was based on a book worth their own money in 2015. In banks, no price assessment of government property has been made, nor any decision on the sale of stocks outside that under the current budget is expected to sell 30% of property in the Bank of Lands and use the sale value to pay off the debt category RIKH 18. Nevertheless, plans to reduce the debt are very limited on the government stock market in business banks and must be made to say that there is a lot of uncertainty about the outcome. The value of stocks in European banks has fallen over this year, and although this does not necessarily promise similar developments in this country, the price of the State's stocks in terms of the stocks in the business banks is very uncertain, and thus it cannot be the basis for a reliable plan for a decline in the state's debt. It is also critical that there is no plan B in government plans. This is not to say how weak their plans are about to decrease the debt. No other way is introduced than to sell stocks in business banks and other stable equipment adopted in these short-term contracts or to put in a plan to respond if plans fail, but it has a very serious chance, and it is actually not shown to sell a share of the State in the Lands Bank this year. The general welfare system means that the government takes responsibility for the implementation of certain fundamental factors for the well - being and safety of all individuals in a designated community and the contribution to tax returns. The general welfare system is based on insurance so that money will move between income groups and subjects with the aim of ensuring that all health care services, services, education, housing, and law enforcement services can be guaranteed, to name some of the general well - being systems that are in place to ensure the overall well - being and to build up for the future. It is repeatedly noted in the Parliament that the government's budget for the development of public funds is designed to strengthen the welfare system and improve the service to the people of the land. These statements, however, do not support the plans described here. It is claimed that both can be done at the same time, improve the welfare system, and reduce taxes. These measures are based on substantial success in the reduction of the debt, but, as already indicated, plans for it are unemployed. Health matters are among the most important and important aspects of the welfare system and are important to them on the same basis. The government plan estimates that within the year 2017/2021, the State's contributions to health are increased by 30 billion over the amount of pay and prices. In this amount, there will be 45% of the budget range to be developed in relation to the target of the emissions set in the programme, with a plan to allow expenses to cover some 42 billion. The success of these schedules is expected to increase the overall rate of health costs by 18% in the period. This should not be minimized to the health costs in the period, but since the extra expenses are very related to the objectives of strict management of the government's investments, expenses are likely to not be enough to support the overall welfare system. It is also important to report in the program that the precise implementation of a planned budget to be spent on individual cases is not available, but it is announced that there will be plans for a financial bill for 2017 that this government will not provide. Therefore, the intentions of governments in these matters must be determined to wait until they become clear. Although the budget is free and the information value of the health issue is poor, it is suggested that three new homes are being built during the programme period and that the government's expense department is assessed at 4.7 billion. This plan is not explained in any way beyond the fact that the three nursing homes will be in the capital area. Questions must arise on the basis of these plans and must also answer whether these plans are sufficient compared with the growing proportion of elderly and the great need for nursing for the elderly in the years to come. It is not clear from government plans whether or how much nursing care will meet the need for this type of service or what it will be like to care for the whole country. Culture and culture are an important part of the welfare system, which contributes to the future of the individual and social mobility. The financial program of these years, 2017●2021, notes that the main educational objective of the government is to support quality development in academic and research and contribute to a higher school advance. To accomplish this, there is also a difference between the two of us. They have provided a bill for the study loan and scholarship legislation, i.e. THE changes we discussed here yesterday do not show how the learning loan system is going to improve learning careers or to argue that the lack of student careers is a problem in the school system, and the relationship to quality development in university and research work is completely uncertain. Finally, it becomes clear that by means of the bill, there is a serious way that there is a wide variety of educational and social equality for the board. There are other sexually explicit statements on education procedures or plans and on how they will be affected in the financial program. It is therefore, for example. claimed that a shorter period of high school from four winters to three times will reduce the drop from school to school. No solid evidence or studies suggest that this is the case. In fact, available research suggests that social conditions over a length of study periods are more important and should therefore be used to support theocratic support at school. Economic plans for high school levels are expected to increase by around 3.2 billion, an actual value of 12% in these years and also a significant loss of control because of periods of study time short. The success of this plan should greatly improve the financial situation of high school, which has been in poor economic situation over the past few years. Since there is a significant transition in this regard, if the government plans and plans of a minister of education were to be followed, it would have been necessary to put forth a strict schedule for the annual development of changes in the high school budget and the use of the funds to be added to their budgets for which plans seem trustworthy. Sadly, that has not been the case. Since this was not done, the government feels that it is possible to engage in experimental activities involving both high school activities and economically, making changes without any immediate objective of the change or means of achieving them as defined in a reasonable way. Thus, the reduction in study periods seems to be the primary purpose of government education by reducing students and teachers, so there is good reason to fear the quality of high school activities in high school schools. It should also be possible that there is no agreement to fully pay the full amount of pay. Thus, there are indirect cuts to high school and many other public institutions. In the Senate arrangement, it is noted that in recent years the quality of education at university will have deteriorated somewhat, with no increase in college funding. The educational and cultural expenditures focus on the construction of the House of Icelandic teachers intended to rise during the course of the programme. It is recommended that money be raised on every student in college, but the number of students will not be increased. That must be an inexpensive way to follow the scientific and technical policies of making budgets for each student reaching an average of the OECD countries in 2016 and the Northern states in 2020. The funerals suggest that the government considers that the maximum number of college students has been reached and that the proportion of total total number per year will decline in the future. The head of the University of Iceland has even. Describe her amazement at this arrangement and show that it can lead to thousands of studies. In itself, this policy could have been followed by a report on its significance for the potential for further education in the coming days, as well as some kind of policy as to the level of education of the nation as a whole, which is full of reason to worry about in the hands of the existing government. Such concerns are described in the common statement by the president of this country: The entire university in Iceland, U.S.A., expresses great frustration that universities will be left behind for the application in the Icelandic community that the government's financial programme for the past 2017/2021 suggests. A significant total interest increase is expected, which is not reflected in financial resources for university and research. The concern of the headmasters is understandable in view that, according to official scientific and technical policies, contributions to academic and scientific activities should be made. It is also suggested that the government's indirect support for students through the Icelandic Board of Education has increased by about 47% of the budget in 2014. On the other hand, a list of total costs for university and academic support shows that there is a significant reduction in expenses due to support for students during the previous two years. Does that not harmonize with claims of growing financial support? The Government plans to change the law of Icelandic students on loan, making it clear that the primary objective of providing financial opportunities for higher education is not to be taken. Unfortunately, the bill we discussed here yesterday, as I said earlier, does not give any basis for optimism about the future role of the fund in the hands of existing government classes. Housing is one of the most important aspects of well - being, and all need a roof over their heads. Costs for housing, whether on the basis of purchase or rent, are equal among the largest individuals and family deal with, and there is room for spending or management may prove to be limited. During the spring of 2016, political work on the International Assembly provided significant changes and reforms to the pioneer minister of housing that became legal in June. Although the building system laid down shows that in the spring of 2016 there are as good as any bright expectations, it is clear that there is something to wait for its impact to reach its goal and that it is predictable that thousands of people will live with housing problems in the next few years. Knowing this, government housing policy has largely been aimed at the recent decades in supporting special policy that involves the possession of citizens of the home they live in. That course is commanded to be followed in the future. As shown in the financial budget, the main support of the state's home owners in growth reforms involves the burden of creditors due to financial costs being reduced by public subsidies on interest. Growth improvements are linked to both income and property and are determined by a marriage status. The level and property binding have resulted in a significant decrease in overall growth rate between the pressures of public pay for 2014 and 2015, by 25.7%, and a 21.3% reduction in growth reforms at the same time. Is it clear, then, that the State's main support of homeowners is much smaller now and falls into size fewer than in previous years. The financial programme also shows that the plan is to reexamine the growth reform system with the aim of turning its activity more fully toward underpayers and is to understand that it will follow the advice given in the report of the World Bank, Optimal Reform and Distornal Analysis of the Personal Inme Taxes, published in October 2015. While significant changes in the State's main support of dwelling owners may be expected to be ahead, there is still no evidence of government plans that explain their nature or scope, there is no way to deal with them here and now. The laws adopted in spring for general apartments include a newly formed socialisation system, the home of an apartment partner working as an automation agency with the objective of buying and operating apartment buildings. The budget will enjoy the founding of countries and rural society and will not become a profit - making industry. It is wishing that this arrangement will be used for the purpose, but it will not be judged, since there is no experience on the activities of the public living society. As we know, the state has been running an apartment loan fund to care for loans because of purchases. In recent years, funds have found themselves in trouble and have received contributions from a government fund of over 50 billion combined. The financial agenda shows that the fund's management is not considered to be in balance over the long term and is therefore considered to be the most desirable thing to do. If this is not done, financial losses are likely to fail, but there is no attempt to assess how much money it might be, nor is there an explanation of measures that would be taken regarding the tasks that the camp loan fund has taken care of, e.g. those involved in equal housing opportunities and loans for social projects on housing. The State's budget budget for financial support includes a reduction in total pay to this sector by 3.7% between 2017 and 2021 years and the efforts in many areas to reduce the share of the government, with the aim of making room for markets. Those schemes certainly do not know good for the social low of income. In the public and justice sector, law enforcement and protection against violence and other laws are among the most important welfare issues in the community. This is especially true of law enforcement. During the past few years, general law enforcement development has been characterised by a contraction and reduction in the number of active police officers from 712 in 2007 to 640 in 2015, i.e. of about 10%. The deterioration of the general law enforcement system is apparent and obvious and additional funds in 2014 and 2015 were only capable of slightly correcting the situation. The need to increase the number of police staff throughout the country for the safety of the public and the police themselves. More important, the educational and ongoing education of police, prosecutors, and judges in the field of sexual violence of any kind than indications have been received, including the U.S. From the United Nations Human Rights Committee, the need for increased action against sexual violence and human kindness. The 2016 budget is nearly 21,500 million for public security and justice. Of these, more than 12,000 million are planned to spend on law enforcement, about 58%. That's at least 10% too small. Government plans go over the increase in financial and political contributions from nearly 22,000 million in 2017 to about 26,000 million in 2021. It's about 19.6% increase, and it is important that much of it flow to the general law enforcement system. Since my time is running short, a respectable president, and I'm going to review maternity stores, child reforms, investments, environmental and climate issues, etc. I'm going to stop for a while and ask that I be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u44	A respectable president. It is with great pleasure that I speak to the opinion of the 3rd smaller parts of this important matter, and I am very grateful that I have had the opportunity to sit on a budget and win the laws of public finance with a financial committee in good cooperation and have the opportunity to get the first financial programme and to work up with the Committee. The kind of work we're going into and financial plans are the first step, and it's extremely important. I hope that it will increase stability, discipline, and firmness in the financial affairs and the principle is to think a little further ahead and have policies in these 34 sectors and then, under each topic field. That's extremely important. The management board has done a good job. I think there's reason to commend her for what she's going through because you see that there's a new thought going on there. I would also like to state that we assume that the work area is going to go on and that there may be more agreement between the schemers. What I'd like to comment on in this first financial programme is that since we're just dealing with the topic areas and we're seeing the financial resources going into a particular area, we don't see how they're going to share on the issues, we'll just see the whole business. Therefore, we do not always know whether a language group or a litigation group should go to save or increase in others, that is not entirely the case. I also feel that the goals, actions, and projects that the Ministry lists, the products of policy activities that have been carried out in the budget, are very ambitious and that's good. But I feel like I'm quite aware of most of the problems in which financial management is not the result of these ambitious efforts. What you would like to see in the future financial agenda is that policies are in line with the budget so that projects are defined and prioritized by financial resources for each topic. I've divided this into the main topic areas. Of course, that kind of opinion could have been much longer, but one day you have to stop. It's the university first. I feel disappointed that there is no more money to be expected at the university in the next five years. In fact, they seem to be relying on a significant decrease in the size of students. We know that at the university, donations per student are lower than average in the OECD countries and lower than in other North countries. However, it is the policy of the Scientific and Technical Council that a contribution to each university student will be comparable to that of the North countries in 2020. We are not achieving that goal according to this plan. Then there are repeated references to making donations for a student in both high schools and colleges. However, they have not increased according to the number of students in the school system, since the number of students in recent years has not been considered to be of interest. Each student's financial contributions do not raise them unless schools start to limit a significant amount of study. They haven't. We spent a long time in a place where the percentage of university students was on this land lower than in the countries we compare with. So it isn't anymore, but I wondered whether to get off that path because we pay less money for students than we really do for them. The budget puts it this way: To improve the quality of university and research, contributions to each year's students will be emphasized instead of increasing the size of the system. I don't know how to understand this other than that the government thinks the proportion of college students has become acceptable and is now useful in reducing students. At the same time, there is no political decision as to which courses will afford to yield, but that must be a political decision. We know, for example, that there is a lack of scientific and scientific skills, but I don't see a plan that indicates how to deal with it, whether we're going to reduce the number of students in college, whether to reduce the number of social sciences, or where to reduce the number. I don't think the policy of this group is good enough and not ambitious. Then, in its review, a smaller 3rd will agree with a State Accounting review, pointing out that at the same time as a short student study for a student test is not discussed on how to deal with a double class graduation course that must be an inevitable consequence of a shorter high school. At some point, more students will flock to the university. The less critical third is also the fact that there is no financial plan for a future perspective on the Housing of the Art University, but it is vital that the school receive adequate housing as early as possible. In high school we're also in the same place, i.e. The percentages of expenses to the high-school level are below the average OECD countries. We know, and it has not been overlooked that in recent years high school has enjoyed a very narrow advantage. More than 12% of the period is expected. It is also planned that the savings next to shorter study and a lower year's walk will remain in the high school system. That's a good thing, and I hope that's going to work. In many places there is a growing need for computers and such in high school because it has been difficult for many years. A White reference work on education reform shows that only 14% of students enrolled in training courses after high school, which is a very low percentage compared to the northern and European countries. It is necessary to increase the number of students in the field of work, as noted repeatedly, but there is no question of how to achieve that goal. As I told you earlier, schools have not been able to renew the necessary equipment needed to do research. So we call for a clearer policy from the government in this regard. I have criticized the lock process and have put a question mark on the budget that is put into operation, which is 660 million in five years. In view of the considerable lack of high school and university funds to achieve the goals established by the government itself, I feel that this priorities should be critical and that effort should be made within the qualifications of the National Education Agency and elementary schools. I'd like to do some research and evolution. Increased funding for research, development, and innovation are expected to be positive and the policy of this whole group is only reasonable, but I'd like to draw attention to the concern of how badly power seems to get its way out of the big capital area. For example, over 90% of the scope of technology development went to the capital area and Southnes in 2015. I think it is very important to determine what is behind it and that governments are trying to ensure that the public sponsorship in this area is being used most widely in the country. Now I don't know what causes, whether there are much fewer applications or worse applications or what it is. I feel that this needs to be done only into the stitches and to try to distribute the relevant funds, which, of course, will always ensure that projects that are supported meet all conditions. Of course, health issues are a huge category. It is planned to increase funding for the four health - care centres during the period by 14%. There, the construction of a hospital and the buying of equipment - a new hospital that is long overdue - is the building of hospitals and hospitals. It seems generally acceptable that health matters are put first, and there is a need to promote the health system after long-term surgery. I want to reiterate and remind you that it is even less important to make good use of the money already placed in the medical system. The goal is to promote health care as the first stop. It is very wise, but it is not to conclude that there will be more money in the lawsuit for the next five years. Even though special - study centers have increased, there is a shortage of home doctors. So a bright future believes that improved service and management can be accomplished by making much better use of the knowledge and experience of the diverse health services we have here. It is very often that other professions, while doctors can care for those who turn to health care and much more than is now being done. We see examples of effective development in neighboring countries, such as nurses who have a wide range of permission to prescribe contraceptive methods and physical therapists who are the first operators for musculoskeletal disorders. Then it is of great interest to note that the increase in life - style related diseases is an enormous cost to the health system and just seems to increase. It is, in fact, incomprehensible that we do not put forth every effort to control evolution by all means and to use preventive measures instead of drugs. The importance of prevention as part of reducing drug use is discussed in the Pharmacovigilance Strategy to 2020. It says, under the permission of a president: As an example, if patients with diabetes mellitus achieved a 10% reduction in the number of 2 diabetes mellitus (i.e. about 1,500 patients) with exercise and dietary adjustments would reduce bone costs by 750 million. K. every year. Similar examples can be found for other diseases such as cardiovascular disorders, obesity, depression, etc. That's no small amount of money. It would be high in a billion if 10% of patients who are now required to take anti-diabetic medicinal products would not need to do so if they managed to change their lifestyle. It is not always easy for people to change their lifestyle. People are being helped. As part of the study, a small 3rd feels that services such as nutritionists and physical therapists are part of the health care provider and that all patients who may be treated with their medical condition are helped by changing diet and exercise. It is a very good goal to have vehicles available to all from time to time in 2017, but we need to consider them in highly targeted measures in which all are put forth effort to help people to choose a healthy lifestyle. There you can save enormous amounts of money and improve the quality of your life. Psychiatric diseases, we've been discussing them during the council, and we've agreed to have mental health policy for four years. This is good, but it needs to be done even better. We recommend access e.g. That college psychologists should be very good. Also, we stress the importance of greater use of telecommunications. The goal is to build five new nursing homes and to support the nursing home provided by many, but their business has been difficult. It's just a good thing. But a bright future stresses the importance of ensuring that there is a need to stay in a nursing home, but at the same time, we are also focusing on increasing home service to senior citizens. It is a service that involves improved quality of life and less costs. Also, we would like to stress that at any given time, we are trying to ensure a sufficient number of qualified health care professionals. That may even be one of the biggest challenges, i.e. has enough qualified health care professionals to care for the welfare system. In this regard, education, training, and a good salary are important. It needs to be considered. In the next five years, the budget increases slightly in the environment, in that category, there's a very small increase. At the same time, there are great challenges. Iceland has signed the Paris Convention and made a commitment to take measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That's what we need to do. Money may not always be costable. A bright future emphasizes that we are building an incentive so that the environmental best possible solution is the most efficient. It's a good thing to put money in building superpower stations, and it's a very ambitious policy that the government has that in 2020 the share of renewable energy in transport is 10%. But I would like to draw attention to it and comment on the fact that when governments have such ambitious policies and government ministers can't even buy new-new fuels, a little bit of hands will fall. It is not to see that government policy when it comes to buying cars for the public is environmentally friendly. I've asked a written inquiry about this, but the answers haven't necessarily been in my mood. It's clear that the road system, so I'm just going to go into transportation, needs to be improved. In the opinion of the Committee, contributions to the road are provided as a proportion of GDP. The increase in travel and transport are increasing the pressures on the road system, and then we have had to reduce construction after the collapse, so there is an enormous need for a great deal of accumulation in the road system. It is also quite unacceptable that a transport strategy has not yet been approved. There's a huge group of paintings, many of which are out in the open. Perhaps we should not forget that we are a small number of people in a rural land, and we have high standards, maladies, and even on the highway. We need to do much better in this regard. Tourism has become a very important way of doing business in Iceland, or an important profession. I had a question at some point for a professional secretary for contributions to research for tourism, fishing roads, agriculture, and industry. It was found that the contributions to research in the tourism service were 170 billion. K. For example, in 2013 it was the year when it was in 2013. 2.9 billion in the fishing road and high to billion in agriculture and 1.3 billion in industry. We have not done much research in these sectors, and surely there are differences in the need for research. However, the budget estimates 500 million for travel studies during the period, which actually means even less donations than the last few years. I hope there's some kind of decision that is based on evidence that we don't have to study this industry any more than this. Many positive factors have been made, such as raising funds for tourism positions and changing the distribution rules and meeting rural communities, which are important. Section 3 feels that involuntary measures for tourism, which are certainly young, but not so young, are no longer needed and that it is time for tourism and lodging to go to the top level. Of course, this is not done on a single occasion. It needs to be planned, and in effect, it needs to be done because we should be able to earn more money from that sector than we are now. The government is talking about efficiency in the tax system. A smaller third will just point out that it is a much simpler taxation to increase the value tax to the top level and to skip the cost of the stay which is relatively small in the state's budget than is the price that requires considerable control. And then I remind you that pretty much every job has a 24% worth tax from its operation. I find it very difficult to justify the fact that traveling services are to be excluded. If this top step is too taxing for tourism, then the question must be considered whether the top step is not too high for Icelandic employment life above it and whether this upper step is just not too high. Then let's just take that conversation. Only on debt and interest costs. The plan is to pay off debt. That's very good, it's important, because there's been too much interest costs. I just hope this works. This, however, is based on predictions or goals for the sale of property and interest. Only on the pension bonds as well. The intention is to pay the pension bonds for the B Company, it's also very important. There's a serious risk that's not that far into the future, so I agree with it. Then, in our program, we will see that it is scheduled to increase the age of pension from 67 years up to 70 years. This is essential, but the increase should not be fully taken until 24 years. I now agree with a greater proportion of the legal committee that it is far too long. Although it may need time for such a change, it needs to go through more quickly. I'll only pay my taxes and my income then. The number of taxes has been reduced from three to two. In terms of my third share, the administrative sector has lost sight of the important role the income tax system serves for balance in society. We feel that these declines are going wrong with the goal of increasing the balance in society. While it is important to simplify the tax system, in the future it would be more important to do so in the respect of the tax system. Then it is always the question of whether we can gain more money from resources. We think so. For example, there we can name the electricity, the sea resources, and the travel services. We're supposed to be able to make more money. The government may also have relinquished, but it is the income stocks that have not yet been attending. Besides, I just want to come into the countryside. There is concern that their situation does not improve much as the wealth of the Kingdom takes over. The rural communities have criticized what kind of income - sharing is being done by the state and rural society. 3rd will address the concerns and criticisms, and it will make it more important to consider that income markets between countries and rural society will be added to them. This may not be surprising, but I don't think it's acceptable to take a course and a view regarding the apartment loans should be clearer. It may not be with any group, but we all need to examine ourselves. It's like a hot potato, an apartment loan fund. It is in fact that only about 900 billion dollars are inexpensive Kingdom responsibilities for the fund. Somehow, he would have to lie down, but there's nothing more about it. Thus, such political policies are not completely clear. The budget expects a contract to be adopted until the end of the ten - year period. More recently, it is reported that a bright future has provided a paradox on the subject so that it will be won better. This is a huge commitment. I do not comment on the long term contract being valid, but such a contract would obviously have to be made in a way that would be acceptable. It may be that talking about the debt breakdown, which was completely less than 3rd, was spreading 80 billion to certain homes and actually using tax coins in an unconvinced and unconvinced way. At the same time, there was a growing need for built - up structures becoming enormous, and ministers in the government have accepted the view that more money is missing for maintenance and projects on important issues, such as road and education. Similarly, plans for the construction of new Hospitals were delayed at the beginning of the ideal period because of the lack of concrete funds. As a result, third part of my case is that the government ministers themselves decided to set priorities in this way. For example, if we had used these 80 billion in another way, using things to pay off debt and then in the development of education, health care, and where it was needed, we would be in another position today. Of course, the discussion on financial matters is consistent with the decision made and the situation would be better if it had not been taken at the discretion of the third part. Only about weaknesses in the plan. A growing economy is expected for the entire season that hopefully goes on. Since then, it is expected that the state will be able to sell its share on finance, and we will also expect money that has been considerable in recent years. This, then, is the prerequisite for reducing the debt of the state to some degree. Since then, it has been pointed out that financial policy needs to be more supportive of the Federal Bureau of Money. There's certainly an underlying spell in the economy. The external factors that may have saved us a little, like low oil and raw prices, that have kept the inflation under control, and the cost has been growing. 3rd smaller things start to worry about them. Of course, when there is a great need for infrastructure, it is a real challenge to manage economics during this period. Thus, experience has shown that in times of crisis, controlling is more difficult than even in times of crisis. Then there's an election up ahead, so we're going to see some funding coming up here where there's a few things that might show up. But I can agree with what was presented in the committee party of the greater part that we need to be careful and gently step to the ground. We can't lose ourselves. I would like to end up saying that I am impressed by the fact that small system changes have been made in the past of this government. Humans have been uniting some organizations, sometimes at high cost. Certainly, high school was cut short. It was a change that was actually run through without much consultation or any consultation or preparation. The forms of savings we have seen have been marked by a flat cut rather than a dive into the lawsuits and things were rethinking. It may always be good to ask ourselves, " What would it be like if I were to create this system today, how we would do it from scratch? ' What may, therefore, be expected to require more frequent improvement in individual areas is the fact that a new government is overworked, an example of this is an example of how much work has been done. Also, unfortunately, there is far too little tradition to suggest that in important policy measures an attempt is made to achieve parapolitic harmony in terms of working out cases over terms, over a single minister's session. It is a memory of 3rd in terms of public financial law that will sustain long - term thinking and careful policy management so that we can start taking different classes, hopefully transverse, and make changes in what we believe to be good for the future and can be confident that the process will continue even after two years or four years of government exchange or whatever it may be. To that end, I would close my case and say again how happy I am that I have had the opportunity to recommend this committee party to the financial program. A man had no other committee opinion to explain that these are the first committee books written in a financial program, so I will read them in the future for my enjoyment and delight, the Committee on the financial program in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech and an excellent committee opinion. There's a little bit different than the government side that's going on here. I'm especially pleased with the precautions section. That is actually the only thing we can really do to reduce health costs, to be seriously premiumed. It's totally singing to me to hear it. A senator speaks in this way. This was what I stressed when I was in the health minister's chair, hoping that public relations will become a change in the way people think, for this is extremely important. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator into things that lead to her income raise. We're in a hurry. A senator proposes an increase in the level of sleep-ins, just so I understand the right thing, and an increase in individual income taxes. I didn't feel completely clear about the interest of resources, whatever. A senator was referring to them. I don't think that's clear enough in the text. In case of a moment. A senator would inform me and others, and perhaps if there are other growing incomes that have passed me through reading the opinion, it would be good to have them too.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u46	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. Somehow, we need to get together with this prevention thing because it's all about how much savings can be achieved. In fact, it says in the drug program, so everyone is aware of this. I'm worried that we always think people can somehow change their diet, they know what's good and what's good, they can get to the gym. Of course, that is not the case. Hv. A senator was in a language that I presented for a clear sense of food so that consumers can see when they see if they contain a lot of sugar, which does not have to be an expert on these products. We agree over there. In terms of income, what we look at is that we feel that more money can be obtained from the fishing industry, e.g. In this regard, it was frustrating that when the mackerel came out, we would ask him out to see if we could not let the market rule there. It was a scene that we in the bright future emphasized. I don't think it's always possible to take advantage of fishing roads. We need to be aware that our government does not strengthen us, as is done in many other places, but access to an enormously important resource is there. When it goes well, it is likely that the nation will receive money without risking its companies. We think there's room there. The same with electrical prices. I agree with the direction that Land activation has followed, or I believe land induction has been followed, it may have been enough of selling very low electricity for large factories, so people are looking at the sea cable, whether it's practical or not. [[The president calls.]] But how important it is that we receive as much money as we can for the vital resource that is pure electricity!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u47	A respectable president. I can keep talking about prevention. The research that has been conducted shows that equals are important, as are wholesome leisure, when it comes to keeping people free of drugs and alcohol. I think we should use the same methods when it comes to younger people. It is, in fact, completely incomprehensible that we are still after school and school years with as many moving below as when we set off elementary school or school school in our own time. But we can talk about it on a better occasion. I want to ask you why. A senator about two things about the income fund. Now there has been some discussion of this when labor sources have left the local community. A fine example today is that of the village, of which this has been discussed. Now it is inevitable if we take this way that it happens very regularly, it cannot be avoided. Has a what? A senator's concern? What's happening, e.g. In the Faeroe Islands it's that there are very strong people who buy most of this, although they have actually offered very little, but it doesn't change that there, especially if this is going to be a public route. Then about the electrical prices and maybe the cable that is in many ways, I'll admit it, an exciting idea. No matter how we approach this, we'll have to activate more. We can debate how much it needs to be considered, but we can't avoid more active if we're going to do that. I must admit that I am becoming very moderate when it comes to increasing activation. [[The president calls.]] I think we're supposed to be very careful with them, a respectable president. But I'd like to ask why. A senator whether or not she's worried about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u48	A respectable president. In terms of the status in the fishing road when a company sells goodbye from communities, we know it like a whale. A member of the United States noted that it was not long since Húsavík and Húsavík. I think it's inevitable whether we have an auction or not. That's a lot of concern. But in a hurry, it is only natural for you to use the money that makes money, because it is a business to manipulate, and it is likely to result in more profit, supporting the damage to the communities. Since people sit there with their real estates and their job prospects are usually not very high, they have an eating plan to be supportive of the people and then to use local resources. It's a cliff we have. In some ways, he is controversial, but it is very important to make use of him to deal with the communities in which the eating is suddenly gone or his large portions of it are sitting directly in the soup. I would like to see far more support for the local community than then be put on a god and filled after the wedding. We can do much better out there. I agree with the cable, it's an exciting idea, and I'll bet I'll take a look into it. But if this means we have to go to major activations, I can totally put a question mark on that. What matters most to me, as it is today, is that if we take the initiatives at least. clear that we are making good money. If we go out into nature, and we will, of course, follow a frame plan in that subject, or I'm hoping that the next government will do so too, then we must be absolutely clear that it is worth it and that we get something for our return.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u49	A respectable president. It has been interesting to observe the debate today at the Hall of Congress on a proposal for a financial resolution in the years 2017-2021. As seen in the criticism of the lower part, there are a number of factors to consider, especially those that attract attention to the health system. It seems that there is not enough access to the health system. Also, it does not appear to be the case in the Senate arrangement, in this financial program, that it should be corrected as needed. We have naturally gone through an extremely special period of health care. Doctors and nurses have gone into a strike for many weeks, which is unique to the Norwegian welfare state, so I agree with what the lesser part has said about the requirement that we need to increase the health care expenses. Then I'd like to remind you of the research that Porta's body has had in the past three years that is about how the public wants to get their collective tax dollars organized. It has repeatedly revealed that the public wants tax money to be protected by health - care systems. It is not acceptable that patients' income is just increasing while we're in good health, at least getting into goods. At the same time, the interior of our health system has been completely crushed. I don't know how many houses the Land Hospital has. Similarly, we need to make sure that the pay paid by the health profession is competitive, especially in the North countries. I'd also like to draw attention to the fact that there's nothing really done about the education system, especially the university system, in relation to the LIN bill that came from the highest level. Minister of Education last night. There doesn't seem to be a whole bridge between financial plans and what seems to be a bill. The greatest risk factor in this matter is just how many individuals entitled to student loans will take a student's loan. There has not been a complete study of the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Education on how students' divisions are not borrowed. Similarly, it has to be totally examined and at risk whether there is any danger that the foreign citizens of the EEA may come to the country to attend this strength, but the dance fund has become a major cost - greater problem, the cost has gone from 5 billion Danish to 340 billion dances over about ten years is paying off the EU citizen entitled to a scholarship. I think it's a little special to see that it doesn't seem to rhyme well enough, and that in itself is a good one, since we're obviously trying to make a complete financial bridge and try to see the future. It's very interesting when you read here about supporting students that it's just not expected in the financial programme, such as. this additional action, which changes in the student loan, in fact, involves. That's very interesting. I also have to agree with my smaller parts about tourism. Travel services are a growing article in Iceland. Now I don't know if there are more than one and a half million tourists coming here every year. That's a tremendous amount of stress on the road system and on our health system and on all our infrastructure. I don't think the government has done enough in that area, either to earn money from tourists or to build up the wood that is needed for us to receive so many people. We need to realize that we cannot afford to lose the tourism industry. It just means that we have to take care of her a little bit, prepare well for the tourism service, and then, in particular, provide security for tourists to feel safe in Iceland. It's impossible for tourists to run on one - walled bridge repeatedly because they've never seen a single bridge before. Emergency transport is simply not fast enough. There are more than a thousand people who go gold ring every day in summer, and they need to be equipped to do so at other large tourist places in the world. There's a medic on the spot. In fact, this has been changed, and there is now a medical team and a doctor alert at the country's major tourist attractions. That's good, but it's also an expense boost for the state. One way is by increasing the balance of the stay, and it also needs to flow to the rural communities, including some burden related to strengthening infrastructure for tourism. Likewise, I take to heart the reasoning that goes on. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's irony made it a bit difficult to defend that travel would be lower than most of the other branches, which are at the top but not below. Then there is something else that might be considered. I know when you drive through the Czech Republic you have to pay for a road tax. You just buy a sticker that's put on the window. It costs a few thousand dollars and goes to the cost of driving on the road system of a car that you don't pay taxes on in that country. I think this is a possible way we can go. It's very easy to watch foreign cars coming to this country, e.g. ... throughNorse. I don't think it should be a very big deal. And also, there is another very simple way to increase the income of the state's money from tourists, that is to quit or lower Taxes Free reimbursement that tourists receive. It's just a policy change, and I've mentioned this before in this councilroom. There are some billion of us dropping back into the hands of tourists. I don't quite understand why. Now there are times when we need to build wood, where our road system is cracked. We need that money. Tourists use our infrastructure to match us. I think it would be a very simple way. We don't have all the countries at Taxi Free. We are not in some special competition with other countries to offer a special tax charge for tourists. I don't see why tourists should need some special tax charge from these guys they buy. This is something you could look for, especially since it's very simple to fix. I'm not gonna be in a drunk much longer, but I'm gonna put a little question mark on the overall picture of this synopsis proposal of whether it actually published the future vision of a welfare community or the vision of a future consumer society. Then, especially, I look to the section on young people and financing of housing where it is at the same time said that people are supposed to have a real choice for farm shapes, yet all are meant to have it. I think it's a little bit of a controlled so we need to be materialistic. I'll put a question mark on it, whether or not we're trying to contribute to a consumer community instead of having a vision for the future. Finally, I would like to emphasize that it is very important that the General agent will be assured of a particular basic development in order to do his job, especially initiative research. Last year's budget, 2016, came up with what an agent had assumed was to be taken away from him. But he needs much more than that. The house he's in has to be renovated, there's a nice room on the top floor that the General could use for an education and an agent as well. We also need to keep in mind the role of the institutions of the Kingdom. I think there's an excellent opportunity to create some kind of field where both agent and Council can have education and more in this beautiful hall at the top of Thorshamri. Similarly, it is quite unannounced, just to say, that an elevator to an agent has not been performed, so motor disasters can't go up there, it's on the top floor of an old house, one of the first concrete houses in Reykjavík, and it's easier to walk up all this ladder. This is not for the elderly or infirm or for someone who has difficulty walking or for those who are confined to a wheelchair. Of course, the U.S. commissioner is to be accessible to all. This is very embarrassing, and I urge that this will be resolved as soon as possible. Other than that, I would like to emphasize the importance of the administrations of the Generals, both the General and the head of the state accountant, to guarantee the funds they need in order to do their jobs properly. These are important organizations for democracy. It is vital that we strengthen our monitoring facilities. There's a reason we have them, and they're there to strengthen the democracy, to keep us under surveillance, to be a governing authority and a defender. We must not forget that. First of all, I'm glad that these attitudes are flaunted in the Congress resolution and I hope that they will remain the policy of the government, and they will not compromise. I'm not gonna have my case much longer than this. Overall, it's a very remarkable document, it's nice to have a window in it, it would have been nice to be able to get more involved in this process. But I thank you for the smaller parts and most of the money. legislatures for the good work they've done with this document.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u50	Madam President. I just want to get involved in this financial and financial discussion. I'm going to take a look at some of the things involved in welfare. Here I have spoken four o'clock before I do. Conspiracies, bright futures, the left movement, the green bid, and the Pirata. Three of them make up a smaller section of a budget and always do a great job. I wish, Madam President, they were in more part so this plan would look different. First, I'd like to express a lot of concern about the development of child improvement. Right away. A senator and head of the United States as well as our budgetary representative, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, was finance minister, then she raised child support for the 2013 budgetary year, for which they had become too low. Sadly, this government has been working on child damages and has even declared that the aim of reform is solely to the income of its households. I've been sitting in a councilroom with my computer and looking at child reforms in other parts of the North countries, Denmark and Sweden. I take an example from an Icelandic average - income family of a million a month, a couple with a million a month in each other's salary. They have children who are 1 and 3 years old, 13 and 15 years old, so this is a family of four, and they are quite a few in Iceland. This couple spends a month on child - rearing 14 of yours. K. Build them in Denmark or Sweden during the month 81 of yours. K. That's 67 of you. K. per month. Over the year, this 804 will be yours. K. which this family has less in provision for support of its children. This is exactly where we in the Union point out that this North American system, that there are non-employable child reforms, that it balances the status of families in the same range of income, whether or not there are children there. Another couple in Iceland who have a million a month and have no children, of course, will not get any children, but this family in Iceland with four children will only get a tax cut, so to speak, 14 of you. K. the month to make up for more serious forwards. Everyone sees that it is completely unrealistic that it is enough to settle within the income range by different means. It's a striking difference. We in the United States are truly going to raise the child settlement and reverse the plans of an independent party and a forwarding party to make them a complete poverty reform. Then we'll come into the premises. There I will express my concern. We were able to complete a great deal of agreement with a local rented bill and a new housing reform system instead of the rent system. The plan was about 2,300 apartments in five years. For one thing, that's too small. With the upcoming stock costs for housing, it was all likely to reach a maximum of 1,500 apartments over a period of five years, but they would have to be at least one. 5 you. During this period or even more people, taking into account ASI's assessment of the need for apartments. So there is a significant need to be increased to build more rented apartments, which are primarily useful to those with lower income and young people. Then we come to the social security system. Social and housing minister has not been able to change it during the election season, although it was for a complete bill when she went into the Ministry, but she started her job again, at the highest level. Minister of Harðardóttir Hardydó, has returned a similar bill that is going to increase the cost of social security by up to 33 billion over the next 10 years and 5 billion next year. Unfortunately, this increase is not taking place in a national budget program, and this announced bill is therefore likely to be launched if we are going to take note of the plan. Of course, it would be desirable for her to be effective, but according to the content, she may not be able to succeed. Then we come to health care. That's the last thing I'm gonna talk about this plan. I'd like to begin by saying that this spring the General Parliament agreed with a bill for patient payment, a bill to the highest level. Kristján Þór Júlíusson's health minister submitted and agreed, but we in the smaller part stressed that we could accept it only with increasing financial resources. We got the highest. Prior to handling the matter, a health minister is meeting with the Committee. He had consulted with the highest. The secretary of finance and we agreed on the bill and put in the Committee what we thought was between, that it was 3,300,400 million. K. Funding into the medical facility at this time of the year, but then the roof would not exceed 50 of you. K. A year to pay the health insurance check. It was supposed to be 95 yous. K. for general patients, but for our hardness in the smaller parts, we reached down to 50 of you. I'd also like to take this opportunity and promise the manager the case, please. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Consley's Konráðsdóttir, who did so well in bringing this matter to its conclusion. But there has been no change in plans for this decrease on the roof. I'm sorry. Speaking of crediting, there are 35 billion public payment parties in Iceland, which have their homes pulling out of their pockets and putting them on the table to pay for health care and medical aid. This is not a travel cost. That's 35 billion. The bill on payment was only about 6.5 of these billions. They are now down a bit because of the reductions on the roof, but most of them were just reassigning them, so the payer of the Icelandic domestics remains to be up to 33 billion a year. This is how the requirement for health care will be at least 11% of gross domestic product required as 86 measures. Icelanders signed, that it is a long way from our achieving it, for of course this increase will not come from the public's pocket, and it needs to be reduced. We need to make plans, very specific plans to increase money into health care and reduce the payment of health insurance. The biggest mail is drug expenses, aid expenses, dental expenses, health care and special care, physical therapy, occupational training, and so on. Some of these things, such as physical therapy and diligent exercise, are now better able to enter the payment program after the prime minister, and should be welcomed, but as I say, we have a long way to go and we need to be very selective when we decide how to increase money into the health system in the next few years. This is shown in a committee program. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harddoer's Harðardóttir that just to keep disappearing about the same service as next year's home would require an additional 5.3 billion, a long way to be involved in the operation, and together the Lands Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital should have an additional 2.3 billion next year. If this program is to be fulfilled, which we hope it will not, for it will have brought us a better and more righteous government when it comes to financial legislation, then the next year we will have a trial in the charge of the Land Hospital. Finally, I want to rejoice that we have taken the step that has been taking since the collapse when the government laws began to be won. There were four financial ministers who came to that work but what they did. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon started his work. At that time, his roommates, Oddný G. Harðardóttir and Katrín Júlíusdóttir, eventually Bjarni Benediktsson became financial minister and finished his job. The General Assembly provided the bill as a WHO law, and the financial and financial agendas are part of that legislation. While we understand political emphasis and have increased opportunities to discuss political emphasis with these programmes, it is important to point out how important it is that we create such programs to make the budget more firm for financial and economic hardship, not only for the general public but also for the institutions and the financial resources, so that we know what we can expect and should also make the policy more money, not just words, so that we can see what lies ahead. I'm going to allow myself, though I may be Copic on many things in this policy of the present government, to wish. The budget is to congratulate you on putting down your policy and plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. As mentioned in her speech, it's about the big numbers and the big plans. It's not a budget. When millions of dollars are covered, they are not found in this schedule. I guess it's 700 billion each year, more than that, that's the frame we're working on. Of course, people can discuss what they want under these forces, just as they normally do. But if they discuss the payment, here are the reviews, then this is the story: I set up this work in my own time as a minister and hid it. Councilmen of Pétur Blöndalur and Ásta Ragnheiður, the daughter of Jóhannesdóttir, are working that way. Sadly, the left government then placed work in a drawer, and it did nothing until this elected period. Our show has been in a position similar to that of the North countries. Yet, it was the lowest in the last few years of our independence, i.e. Not that last government. It's the government we used to be in. A respectable president. I think it's pretty steep when it's dark. Councilmen and representatives of the left green and the Controversity, which cut most of their health - and the figures completely, also with regard to the data of employees, etc. - come and speak in this way and speak down the emphasis that the current government has had on health care. We can see them at all numbers, and we can see them in these schedules as well. If you want to discuss the details of your housing, which is probably up to this point, then I'll be shocked. A member of Parliament and other members of the left green and Controversy, Pirata, and Bjarts'future, are now trying to keep a word for the more part in Reykjavík when it comes to property opportunities, since the places that are living are raising substantially the prices of apartments, especially for young people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u52	V.E.G. President. You're right next door. paritaprevir Guðlaugur told Þór Þórðarson that he was a health minister who, along with the Cooperative Work for the Drug and Health Care System, began his work. I want to correct the senator because he said that the left board put that job in a drawer. This is not at all to be done, for during the last term, in the reign of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, in which the Guðbjartur - fearing name Hannesson was the health minister, and thus the Minister of Health, we introduced a new pharmaceutical system. With the changes we agreed for in spring and are greatly improved, especially after we reached the roof, general patients, we at work and are able to work, will pay to the maximum level of medicine and health care paid for your 112 you. K. every year and pensioners and children, to a maximum of 74 o'clock. K. every year. As I studied in my case, much of the household expenses are not included in this payment system. The project ahead is to reduce this payment, therefore, beyond this amount, this 112 yous. K. and 74 o'clock. K. This year, people are raising much higher amounts of money out of their own pockets for health care and medicine because they do not care for their expenses. There's been surgery in the health system since the turn of the century. We know what happened here in the fall of 2008, which resulted in further cuts. [[The president calls.]] I have no shame in believing that this ambitious plans for the Independence Party and the Health Department are ambitious. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u53	A respectable president. Named why. paritaprevir Blöndalur Bögals was active when I left the Ministry of Health. Nothing was done with the work done there. On the other hand, like the oar, took. A senator mentioned, the highest. Minister of Guðbjartur Hannesson later in the election season, taking out the drugs that, of course, were a step in the right direction, but I think it would be more wise to have them all right as we did now. I'm not biting it at the point. Conspiracies and left greens changed their minds and brought it on the wagon, thank you very much. Congress officials for the work they went to do to set the matter straight. But, Mr President, please. In fact, when it comes to more and less reports from public employees during the last term in the medical sector, members of the council cannot come and say this. This is shown in the answer to a question I asked the Mt. Secretary of finance, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, while other jobs were protected and added to other places, such as the foreign affairs and the Environment Ministry and its subsystems. You may want to do even better, but speaking in this way, making it appear that this government - a government account has arrived, not just a government account, but a government account that shows that there has been an increase in the cost and contributions to health, both in billions and in proportion. And to come here and then speak in that way as here is done, it must be meant by each and every one of us. However, those interested in the case can look into terms of government, compared with how this was accomplished, not just for billions, but also even for proportion. [[The president calls.]] Then, in action, people see who have emphasized health issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u54	V.E.G. President. It's easy to play with numbers, but I'm here with the health minister's response to it. paritaprevir Svandís' Svavarsdóttir for payment and waiting for measures in the health system. Total cost to health is then asked as a percentage of national production. In 2010, at the center of the collapse, they were 7.1% of land production. In 2015 they are still 7.1% of the land's production. Of course, national production is much higher in 2015, but the situation needs to be taken into account. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I have to say that a government with members of a board that did little good besides subsidiary of the then existing government and showed little understanding and contributed a little bit, then a government with an inheritance from the government that is improving the interests of government funds and economic stability and allowing itself to speak as if this has not become a financial crash and can be compared the budget of 2010 and 2011 to the budgetary budget of 2017,2021. There must be much more ambitious plans than there was here in the largest cutout after the collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u55	Who was that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u56	To speak as if this government is ambitious in comparison with the former government is at best presumptuous. I reiterate my words, Madam President, that there has to be an additional charge for health care far beyond what a national financial programme expects.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u57	Madam President. I'm going to continue to review my second opinion on a budget board and take it, including... for maternity, child support, investment and environment and climate. I started discussing the welfare issues before my speech session ended, and I had taken care of health, education, housing and law enforcement, and now I'm going to go to my birthday school. Most important of the things involved in young families and the well - being of children and young people are those of child sacrifice. It has begun beyond doubt that the design of birthworm favors has made a great difference in the development of gender equality and has led fathers to take a greater part in the care of infants. Thus, the seminar class is a particularly important part of the welfare system and the government's actions at this level illustrate its policy and its focus on welfare and equality. In addition to insurance bills, the brochure was written to provide information on a variety of ways that gifts may be made either now or through a bequest at death. 113/1990 with subsequent changes. The insurance bill was reduced by 0.5 percentage points, from 7.35% to 6.85% on July 1. in relation to collective agreements made early this year, and further reductions in the insurance bill are planned over the next few years. The Government plans to increase the share of stocks in insurance fees so that the funds of the fund will be increased in accordance with the budget predicted to be paid in a manner similar to that in 2009, which is defined in the Parliamentary Reunion Directive on the budget. This suggests that there are significant changes in terms of insurance costs and its disposition and likely, in view of the nature of these changes, that the cost of a state's budget for birth is greatly underestimated. The 2008 maximum monthly pay of birth holidayes prior to a financial breakdown was 535,700, corresponding to some 761,000 on the current price, and as determined by the government's declarations. The decrease in the maximum rent has resulted in fathers taking less or less maternity than in previous years when payment was higher. Therefore, the importance of raising the payments should not be reduced, but since birthworm is much shorter in this country than in other countries in the North countries, the goal should be to extend it to the level of what happens if it was intended to operate here a norse welfare system. Game at the top. The social and housing minister has the advantage of elections at hand because there is no financial plan to assume the expenses they have discussed in the media. A team of green greens has repeatedly proposed a conference to bridge the gap between maternity and prenatal school, and the pleasure of public, state, and rural society will bring up acceptable plans for the children's families in the delicate life span of the world's present world. Children's payments, money paid by children to promote tax returns, are very important for the implementation of young families, and to ensure that no children will be completely detracted from material benefits and also include recognition that there is a need for any money to be made for children and young people. Children's reforms thus include protection from poverty, and they are among the most powerful tools of the social system to help balance and ensure minimal survival for children, as these payments often raise families to poverty limits. Children's improvements in this country are determined by parental income, marriage status, and children's numbers, while others in the north are most common for each child without regard for the income of candidates. In the next five years, two financial declarations stipulate government policies on child reform. Others include the promise of reimbursement of the child reform system and its simplicity in accordance with the suggestions of the International Cash Fund on individual income tax returns, and the rest is a declaration that the State's contribution for child reform is not going to change the real value of the programme. The success of this plan is clearly seen to expect large changes in the payment of child reforms and the ideal family of children. It is claimed that in recent years the government stressed the importance of protecting child care and improving the terms of the poor family's income. However, at the pressures of public pay for 2016, the total pay for child reform and recovery families dropped by 7.4% a year. This suggests that in general a reduction in the financial status of a child's family is seen. The government has not explained its ideas on future child improvement but has only referred to the World Bank on Thinking. A discussion of new child reforms, of course, must wait for the government groups to show and explain their plans on these topics, but the suggestion that a financial program for the late development of the situation suggests that this importance of the welfare system may be at risk in the management of the existing government. As expected, in the fall of 2008 the financial breakdown had an adverse effect on public investments, which has been between 2.5 to 63% of GDP since 2009, but this proportion is often considered to be no less than 4% to be kept in writing and to ensure the normal structure of society. Unfortunately, the government budget does not promise any growth that clearly has to occur in public investments after a long recession and decade of decline, but just the opposite. It is estimated that the annual investment of the A State Fund will be about 1.3% of gross domestic product during the previous part of the period and will only increase to 1.5% in the latter part of it. Investment of the A component of the countryside is expected to be less than 1% of the gross domestic product over the period. In the European Union newsletter, a 3rd tl. 2016, which deals with the financial programmes of rural society between 2016 and 2020, points out that the low investment level of rural society can lead to problems. The reason is that the investment level is too low to meet the need and the consequences will be revealed to the people inlands near society. Clearly, governments have promoted a strict policy of maintenance in the investments of rural society to keep the economy back, but at the same time, they contribute to an increase in private consumption by tax reforms. Understandably, this economy is not a concern to the infrastructure of rural society and thus to the common interests of the entire population. As a result, the 2nd lower percentage protests it as a social hazard. It is also to remember, when dealing with the economics of rural society and their inadequate investment plans, that rural society was obliged to donate after earnings due to property savings, which was supported by the detriment of high-cost property loans, i.e. It's called correction. Of course, this loss of income has weakened the financial foundation of rural society at both its acute and long length and is among examples of money transfer from private consumption during the current terms. Recently, financial and economic secretary's bill for buying the first apartment means that the tax rate due to special savings will be extended. Thus, this results in an even greater loss of income from a rural community. There is a need for a provision to improve the loss of income in the community when it comes to caring for their roles and duties. Investment plans for public investment in the interior are poor and far from enough. It is inevitable that many people are affected by society. It should be pointed to transport and tourism as an example of the failure of the government's resources and problems. As noted, the number of tourists in recent years has greatly increased in the area, testing for certain infrastructures that are not prepared to accept all the people who want to visit the country. These are called growth pains in government plans and are thought to be dangerous, but nothing is easy for practical programs to cope with the situation. Isavia, a pilot and flight guide, has made extensive plans for the construction of transport workers at Keflavík Airport in order to respond to increased traffic in the field, and there are already extensive implementations. Similarly, it would have been necessary to respond to the need for the restoration and construction of transport workers in the country, since it is known that tourists do not stop at Keflavík Airport but pass through the country. However, the structure of transport in the country is put out of the government's strategy, making it less difficult to do so. However, this lack of interest in society's interests, which will have far more extensive and serious consequences than the growth pains discussed in the financial agenda. Vega's contributions, as a proportion of GDP, are much lower than the average of the previous year and are intended for only a slight rise up to 2018. This is, in fact, an ongoing failure of these vital structures over many years, which must be a concern for all the people of the country, and especially the people of the country. The 2016 fund is 14,000 million for the environment and divided up to 22% for the protection of nature, forestry and agriculture, 22% for research and monitoring of Iceland's nature, 24% for waste management, 9% for protection against nature and 22% for environmental management. The change between 2017 and 2021 is only 1.2%, with a surprising slight increase in terms of the importance of the case category and also a further factor in the estimated growth of GDP over the period of about 14.5%. Therefore, the government has not seen any visible plans for environmental management and in line with increased commitments resulting from international measures in the environment and climate. A work programme for climate matters is referred to as being handled by the Environment and Resource Ministry until 2018. The plan will include: The role of fulfilling international commitments in climate accepted at the 21st United Nations climate conference in Paris at the end of 2015, while the international agreement in which it was able to contain and stop the activities of humans that contribute to global warming takes effect in 2020. It may be assumed that this will be an increased need for public exposure to climate, but there is no information in the national budget for the government's plans on these matters. Plans for the total budget of the category describe contractions, and it is clear that increasing global commitments to climate will not be carried out adequately unless at the expense of other factors, the least of which can be done. In general, there is concern that a debate about climate seems completely isolated from the environmental class when the greenhouse gas emissions programmes should be seen in much more chapters of the financial programme. This would be the policy of transport and employment, as well as the urgent use of green taxes and green economy in all sectors. In addition, projections for energy and fuel costs and tore on them show that governments have very little plans in this area. Energy and fuel costs are reserved for only 4%, i.e. about 10% under the estimated growth of GDP over the years. According to the strategy, the aim is to use as early as possible oil and gas in Iceland's economic legal history. It is not reported how this technology should fall to the targets of carbon dioxide emissions as well as other environmental and climate targets, but it is clear that funds will be spent on this objective. It should be noted that it would be more successful to use funds to reduce the use of fossil fuels in this country and to further use of renewable energy, e.g. by making them new in public transportation. Madam President. I haven't spoken of even. Developmental cooperation and co-operation on safety and protection issues, however outlined at 1st. The point. For the next five years, it is held in the Parliament's arrangement for financial planning that policy there is a policy of well - being, but I think it's a whole different experience. I just don't think it means support for the major aspects of the welfare system. Her business is the opposite, i.e. reducing equations, inhibiting infrastructure and social slices. Rather, such a course is a typical, well - known right policy that is not about the welfare of the public or of the insurance policy but that goes past it into the growing area of self - attention. Many examples of this have been explained, in the discussion of the individual aspects of the proposal, how far away it is from well - being, and however, it is not inexhaustible. The obvious fact is, instead of strengthening the welfare system, and society's overall interests are put in jeopardy with plans for neglect of the maintenance and structure of the infrastructure. It is not enough to mention, as it were. The head of the greater part explained that transport plans and financial programs do not communicate so much as many billions. Climate and environment policy seems very loose in the ropes and ambitions, and it is far from being in line with the importance of these issues or the commitments being made in the environment and climate. As a result, 2 memory items cannot agree with these Parliamentary arrangements for financial and financial policies for the next five years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-17-134.u58	A respectable president. I'll come up at the end of the discussion, and I won't extend it much. She's been great about a lot of things. The idea is that it revolves primarily on the big lines and on what goals we set for debts and goods and how we share these in the big context. I have to admit, I feel a little steep. Congress officials are trying to minimize what has been done in recent years when health matters and what is suggested in this program. I also find it strange when people talk about the survival of their homes that they take out one category of reformers and talk to him specifically as if he was the beginning and end of everything. True, it is a powerful contradiction. The members of the United States and the left green to talk about their wanting to see income equations but then oppose the fact that child support is primarily for low income families. It simply contradicts it. If I understand why. Councilmen are rights who want to treat them unfashionable and in such cases. The members of the council, they criticize the items that are unaddressed and that I dismiss them, e.g. to correct the so - called correction. It is interesting, however, to see how much emphasis there is on paying taxes. Councilmen, especially members of the United States and left greens, even though they were only with them. Senators Birt's future. There's a lot of work to do, taxes at travel, there's to raise the public income taxes, they're to set up property taxes that were so ill with older people who were in debt or in debt, raised so-called capital taxes, and some other things came during the day when you listened to what you heard. Senators. I don't like to listen to them. I don't like to hear them. I hate that the current government has not emphasized health issues. It was this way, and everyone can look up as he wishes, that during the last terms, the exposés and the above values are mainly in the medical and national hospitals. Another public service was protected. Everyone knows that there was a need to save at this time, no one claims that it was easy, no, no, no, no, no, not necessary, but what is incomprehensible is why people put so much emphasis on saving their health but improving, for example. in the foreign affairs and the environment, especially in the surveillance facilities. You would have intended that these institutions had no less maintenance or saving phase than health matters, but the situation was different. You can check it out if they want it to happen because these things are exactly covered by a government bill. This policy has been changed. It's a twist, as it happened in a single bang. Councilman of the United States, to refer to GDP in this regard. The proportion of all metal groups is generally much higher when GDP is low, but when it increases, especially if it increases, the ratio is much lower though the amount is much higher. A respectable president. I'm not going to correct any more of what happened. ... anticoagulation. I'm just going to say, as I said at the beginning of my case today, that I hope this is a step toward discussing the responsibility of the state's affairs, that we look for longer than we have done before, and are creating a political act so that it will be made up of the demand for all the politicians, no matter what they are, in the scene of the Generalis, the government, and at the level of government, that they will be responsible both in word and in conduct when it comes to public finances. If we do, we've taken a huge step toward making the public's standard of living better in this country. No society that we would like to compare with that that that has achieved the success and standard of living achieved by those societies has achieved without promoting a demeaning practice and long - term thinking in public finance.
