ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u1	Mr. President. I can't help but complain about the President's conference board because we're discussing a financial bill that was submitted late last night, and the budget board is due to be discussed. I find it totally unacceptable to expect members of the council who are at the meetings day out and day in, especially to a financial committee, who have also received final financial laws, and are trying to make budgets so that they are going to discuss budgets, which I allow me to say that no one has read in a way that he can express himself specifically about them. In addition, it is unacceptable that we live in discrimination when it comes to information. Yesterday an interview was made with a member of a budget board that included certain numbers that we have no idea, at least not me, and I know that more people have not had those numbers, in order to be able to participate in that discussion. There is a phone call for a interview with the legal committee, but they can't give us any information because they have no numbers on their hands when they ask for an interview in the afternoon. [[The president calls.]] It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u2	A respectable president. I'm gonna carry a volleyball from the President. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think it's right. I don't think it's a good idea for a respectable president to take it. We know the situation at the council, and the reason why the person standing here could express himself on this matter was simply that it is customary for government funding and bills to be introduced first at that council, and after the council meeting, I made comments about what had been introduced to us there. It's a work song that's been around for a very long time, and I don't know that there's any expectations of it being changed. I don't think it's right to make any comments to the President's conference board, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u3	Mr. President. I would like to agree with the criticism as long as possible. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir set up earlier. There's clearly a difference between those who are not members of the forward party and an independent party. We didn't see this bill until it was distributed between the clocks. Nine and ten last night. I was one of the people who got a call between the clock. Four and five yesterday, and I was asked to respond. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þórðarson had said about the budget bill that had not yet been distributed. It was uncomfortable. It's a good time. We'll have a discussion afterwards, totally unprepared, but we'll be forced to take the fight first that the program is set up in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u4	For this reason, the president wants to state that it is, of course, not preferable to accept important matters as quickly as is proposed. Unfortunately, last night the bill would be ready for contributions. It was hoped that it could be distributed in the afternoon or in the afternoon, but it was only after a long time in the evening that the matter was finally ready for distribution. As a result, even a shorter period of time was available for what was right. Councilmen to examine its contents. Of course, it is the circumstances we are living in during these extraordinary times that mark this and that of all. Generals realize that short time will live for Christmas or a year if it is done to all the important tasks in our hands. The president readily admits that this is not the general procedure to be used.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u5	Mr. President. ▪ Finally, the song was the opening words of one of the most famous songs ever written in Iceland. Kristján Albertsson, 1927, saw the subject of a great poet in Halldór Laxness when he released the great Webman from Kasmmir. Of course, I can finally use, at last, for a fall in the Federal Bank, but maybe not with the same conviction as Kristján Albertsson of the hopes he had in Halldór Laxness. I don't expect the bank to show a lot of genius in the future management of money matters, but it can and can bite to take the first steps, unfortunately, chicken fat, in the right direction. Fortunately, the Secret Bank's money policy committee has identified a more favorable formulation of economic growth, realizing that it is solid, based, and driven by exports and commercial investments, rather than by personal consumption. This is not a debt of economic growth, it is the economic growth of the new economy that is stronger than we have ever known. We enjoy it by evaluating the business balance, and for almost three years, inflation has been the target of inflation. However, in spite of the decrease in interest of yesterday's growth, it is worth calling the world's attention to the fact that in Iceland, there are ten times higher than in Norway and the United States, and Norway is our main competitive country when it comes to the export of marine products. [[The president calls.]] The lack of competitiveness in Icelandic industry is reflected in the UN's high - interest policy, which is really nothing more than a hidden tax system in Icelandic and Icelandic businesses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u6	A respectable president. In discussions at the General Assembly, speakers have concluded that a five - year national financial programme from an advanced government makes moderate ideas about the increase in income gain of 2017 clear, just as the plan of one government ties the relevant volume when the previous loss of more part or even the hands of the council. Clearly, this is wrong now that the previous body of Congress has been disturbed, and the general body of funds has been brought to its end. This attitude came, e.g. ... untilthelastthirdday of Castlight Show, on the V.O.W. by D.C. paritaprevir and the vice president of the Archipelago, Jóna Sólda Elínardóttir, who has heard in the council the representative of an independent party covering the budget. Do these groups agree on the importance of financial matters, should that be understood? Mr. President. The government's budget is political economics, and it is the same fate as the other basic policy laws on the left, right, or the centre of the politics. Do not forget, the purpose of a five - year national budget is to include to make the budget work of each year more efficient and to increase a responsible position on all aspects of the budget bill. This does not mean that a new council and a new feature behind a new government, if it exists here and now, cannot gain added support for community service in a responsible way, thereby going beyond the bounds of a fallen government, supporting the Council on that step, steps that some may take. Congress officials deliberately try to make it appear that there is a violation of a sacred plan. There is hardly a lack of teaching, but perhaps a misunderstanding in some case. Each new government establishes its five-year national financial programme under official financial law, we know, and it is to know that it is, not another government or a new congregation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u7	V.E.G. President. Since it is tomorrow's birthday party, we are happy to celebrate the forwarders with a glorious celebration at the National Theater and Celebrations in many parts of the country for the next few days. Of course, all of us are welcome there. The 100 - year - old advance team has worked with the nation for 100 years, a century. It in itself is not a long time, so in eternity, but certainly a long time in politics. The leading political party, the leading political party, has been involved in the government for 62 years. The nature of the matter has led many to progress and to the development of society that, at that time, changed from simple farm society to modern technology with a voice among the nations of the world. Of course, we did not do this alone, for politics is about cooperation and conversation. The value of cohesion never fails. The beginning of the party is the fall of 1916, in the fall of Sufjörður. At that time, members of the North and East were on their way to a council that had been called together in December because, like now, it was supposed to form a government. But the ships delayed, and the members had time to take their advice, and the members decided to form a council. When they finally arrived in Reykjavík, they contacted more members of the council, and they became part of a total of eight founders. On December 16, 1916, the first meeting of the new class was booked, so it is considered the day of its birth. The formations of the party stand on old soil. In 1931, at the Second Assembly of the Apostle Party, a central government and executive council were formed, in 1933, the number of party members had reached 52. The relationship between young candidates was established in 1938, and the National Association of Announcers was established in 1981. It's precious. We've got frames to work on, we can look into history, we've got a lot of grass based on old marrow, people who have ideals and want to work on them. It is a privilege to serve in such a group. V.E.G. President. The task of politics is to work toward progress, influence, and benefit society at any given time. We are going to continue to do so, looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u8	The president was tolerant of time measurements, and it was difficult to trace a 100 - year story in two minutes. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u9	A respectable president. The civil war in Syria has been going on for nearly six years. The terrible situation in Syria, especially the siege that has existed in the city of Akepó in the past few years and months, has proved to be like all wars and wars, which have taken a terrible blow on public citizens, especially children and women. Some 5 million Syrians are now listed as refugees, and 6.5 million are on the run in their own land. Events in recent times in which the Syrian government forces have taken over the city of Appo has caused anxiety worldwide. The response of governments in the world is many, most often sanctified by political and political lines. The disaster and war in Syria have been repeatedly protested worldwide by the public in cities such as Hamburg, Germany, Sarajevo, Bosnia, and the city of Rabat, Morocco. A protest and a meeting are scheduled here at the East Field on Saturday. I think that all of us in this room can join the plea for peace in Syria, as in other lands. Then I'd also like to focus my sight and attention on the government we live in and on the political position at the council that appears in that there are only two committees appointed, and that is temporary, and therefore no candidate for us senators to discuss urgent foreign affairs, requesting explanation from the acting state minister and the State Ministry of State at the time of international affairs. Is it not necessary for any Icelandic senators who represent the nation's chosen representatives both to get an overview and to ask for the latest change when it comes to international political issues of this magnitude, such as the war situation in Syria and the latest reversals in those matters? How clear is the government's view of the war in Syria? And when it comes to the government, how can it be applied internationally? [[The president calls.]] That's what I want at least to know and speak and ask a professional minister of foreign affairs and would want to draw attention to the need to be the scene for us senators to address this issue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u10	A respectable president. First, I want to congratulate the candidates and women on tomorrow's birthday. The case is related to me, my great-grandfather now came to the oppressors of the forward party, even though I would admit that I didn't always wear it. I would like to discuss far more serious matters than what is the situation and how to help secure people in this country. There's no question about the reason why I come up here and discuss this now is the tragic news of what terrible things we've heard here on the news of the recent news of bad equipment that I think everyone agrees to be on these matters. We heard yesterday that there will be an increase in funds to this category in the budgets, hundreds of millions of dollars. That I understand, which is well, yet the situation is that it's not just about dollars and pennies. It is good to place more money on the case party, and not just good but necessary, but to consider that these matters are far more important than that. I have a request in the process of conducting this seminary, where I ask for answers to how equipment is being done, how trustees get access to the needed help, especially for health care, because to me it is primarily about humanity. Money can be the movement of parts, but in the end it is about the equipment that we feel is appropriate for people who really need help. We need to examine this group of subjects, and I look forward to answering the question I'm going to ask about it in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u11	Mr. President. At an auction meeting at the University of High School in Akureyri, which took place in mid - October, there was a difference between the United States and the United States. Talk about the financial resources of the state. One of the nice candidate candidates of the Northeast District, a nice man, referred to the world literature in his case when he said that the state fund was full, like the property store of Jóakim the aðalöndur. V.E.G. In a similar vein, a minister of finance, though not referring to the literature, spoke of the high position of the State Fund. Other rulers had similar messages. It was called in the right direction. What good news those were that took on a joyful projection in an ambitious transport program! On Saturday, October 29, we had a vote. The voters took their way to an ideal place with this joyous information in the book. It was also listed from ballots, and the various political parties began talking about government cooperation. At that time, the Kingdom Hall's position was not as impressive as the weather had been, as well as the financial value of a new disposal program. When we discussed the budget in Kashlight on Tuesday, December 6, it was U.S.A. Secretary of finance, including, by permission of the President: ▪ I don't think there's enough room to make this transport plan fully meets our budget. So many were words. There's a lot of things that don't make room to finance because of the poor state's status. The voters were simply deceived. They believed and trusted that large amounts of contributions would be made to the health, transportation, and other matters that have indeed been lost. Mr. President. It's bad to be caught by a fool.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u12	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss here a lot of differences in energy costs in the country. Recently, the website of the Based Agency included a summary in this case. A building agency caused the Power Institute to evaluate these comparisons. It provides a wealth of information that affects many in the country, which live at high house - to - house expenses. According to one estimate, there is a greater difference between the cost of house warming in the country than the cost of electricity. It's more important, for example. 287% at house - to - house heating costs, and in rural areas on the West. There's a huge difference. The cost of electricity in rural areas is 52% higher than the lowest prices in urban areas, and the difference has increased since last year, even though we would have thought we were here trying to get it down something with more money to level electricity distribution. Based on the 140 square feet house, the cost of house warming is 291 p.m. K. over 123 of you. K. ... onSeltjanarnes. That difference is 135%. We senators must be encouraged to do better. Happily, over 90% of the people live in a house - to - house warm water. We need to look to those who don't have that resource on their hands. The total cost of house warming at home in Hólmavík is 265 you. K. every year. It's the highest cost in the country. My view is that the earth is our share of the nation, just as the fishing resources in the sea that all the people want to profit from. Is it not true that we look at this in the same way as the ever - reaching energy prices in the country and walk all the way through it? [[The president calls.]] We have the opportunity to do so in financial terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to make up the subject of the news received from a man-salt language that has been dropped by the local district attorney. I think most of us who have observed this matter are surprised not to be put to the test. In the news, the head of the Work Programme, Snædal, has said that this is probably one of the most clear examples of man-sale cases that have come on board and if this case cannot be reported, there are actions against a retailer who is not available in Iceland. It's a general lack of knowledge and understanding of the nature of human law in the justice system. According to man-selling procedures, police, prosecutors, and judges have been instructed. As news reports show, the police seem to have done well in this case and then found themselves at the level of the prosecutor. Because of this, earlier this week, I proposed a request to the Minister of Ministers on the implementation of the strategy, especially since it runs its course at the end of the year and it becomes evident that it is not enough to extend but needs to be added significantly to make good use of this group. I hope it doesn't even need this inquiry to look at these cases, see how procedures worked in this case, how education has returned to the justice system, and how it is said that women who sewed clothes in the basement are not considered to be sold to a man dealer because they received free food and shelter. [[The president calls.]] Like the ancient Roman senators, we may keep housekeeping only if we feed them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u14	A respectable president. In this discussion about the state of the fund, I don't think it's any way to describe it as a problem. However, it would be most desirable if we owed less, but that is how it will be unless we pay up the debt of the state, and the third largest budget is still the interest budget in the state's budget. There was no secret, and everyone who followed up on a discussion was not funded by the transport program. There's no new news. A respectable president. We need to look at other factors. It is not necessarily that we receive the money we have seen coming to a government fund. This will not be different from that of a strong, powerful professional life. What has changed in recent years is that the sector of tourism has become the focus of economic growth in the country and has made work as productive as it really is. In the following year, this article will provide more currency than the big industry and the fishing grounds combined. Now we look forward to strengthening the crown's gangs. There are in itself good reasons, but this can have very negative consequences on the competitiveness of the exports. I think we need to look at it. We also need to strengthen our pension system. Then I refer to most of the people who own their houses here, they do their business here, and it's not wise to have all the eggs in the same basket, that they also save their savings there. We look forward to the best opportunities we have seen for a very long time so that Icelandic pension funds invest in foreign lands. If there's no other way we're changing the law so that we place floors on investments and therefore have to invest more abroad, we should seriously examine it. Time is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u15	A respectable president. It is my great privilege to stand here today, the first time in a pontta that the elected senator of foreign berries broke, who has earned an Icelandic citizenship. I say it with gratitude, pride, and respect. I am part of a minority group that has rightly been given a hearing in the General Assembly. I am fortunate to be living in Iceland where human rights, equality and democracy are values that we maintain high altitudes. Of course, that means that immigrants have the same rights and are equal in their jobs, in their schools, and in the community. As director of a preschooler, I had the privilege of serving many families from a foreign background. In that assignment, I experienced that not everyone in Iceland is equal. All too often we hear about human halls, discrimination, and violations of immigrants'rights. At the same time, it is spoken of as needing a ◯land workforce. There is a lack of secular employment in every part of the world, but there are very few foreigners who are fully satisfied with their foreign education. Although we immigrants are only 10% of the community here, we are large enough to benefit and affect community development. In education and education systems, there is an opportunity to match the status of immigrants in Icelandic society. There, however, there are also differences between immigrants and natives. Children who speak more than one language are not invited to promote their mother tongue in Icelandic language, resulting in the lack of strength in the Icelandic school system and loss of students from foreign countries who are considerably higher than those of Icelandic students. It is my most optimistic hope that in my work at the General Assembly, I will have the opportunity to pay a way for more immigrants to participate actively in Icelandic society. We need it, and that's how we make a better community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u16	V.E.G. President. I want, as others have done, to congratulate the 100th anniversary, and I want to thank you too. The question is, Which invitation will you choose? [[Balds of laughter in the chamber of Congress.]] What I'd like to do is, when you watched the discussions of several categories on creating a government and the community debate on the budget, about the budget, here's a subsurgement law when it's reality that this is probably the biggest payback bill since 2007, maybe the next in history. So when you look at the extras, the compensations they come, the final budget that's being erased out of debt for most people if not for all the institutions, the tails that have been drawn behind you, that's a huge increase. However, it is true that nothing has happened, and even in recent years with a large increase in welfare, health, and social security, a historical increase between years. And everybody's talking about nothing being done. Just nothing. There's been a single cut here. In what reality have we come? It's completely incomprehensible to me. And they still talk like that. I think the problem we now have is that there's too much expenses in the budget. We're going too steep. Today, we do well to consider whether there is a basis for cutting down and administering discipline. In the long run, this may be better for the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u17	A respectable president. After reviewing the financial problems of the past few days, I would like to establish the role of the State in terms of investments and economic influence. There is a new law on public finance that the State's activities include other public bodies, i.e. The activities of rural society and businesses owned by government and rural society. To assess the economic impact of the activities of all these public citizens on the national structure, we need information and it needs to be consistent. First of all, it's interesting that the Haguems and the Council have not a uniform basis for making investments, but they're not exactly the basis for the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, without me knowing exactly the difference, but they're not the same. In connection with financial programmes of the rural community and the agreement made with the objective that the government jointly operates on good economic management and responsible management of public funds, the aim is to ensure that rural society does not contribute to economic expansion during the programme period. In terms of rural investments, the problem is that budgets do not clearly show how much country funds are used to measure the total economy. It shows what rural societies themselves invest in their account, but it does seem to be difficult to find, e.g. how many apartments are in a building, e.g. This year to find out how many people are on the organization for the next five years. This is the information I've been looking for, but I didn't find it. This isn't going to work out. The National Association has not taken it together. Some have been counting construction sites. In the past, a call was made. However, this information is not specifically available. To apply the goals of new laws, I feel that this is a cause for concern. Then, in this context, we also need to examine other government investments. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to mention this because, with the uniform information and with the aim of a government law on public finances, we are putting government interests in a better way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u18	A respectable president. The newspaper reported this week that young people are increasingly looking to an agent for financial advantages. This is not to be news for all of us. It's been almost two years since me and other members of the council. A welfare committee visited the Agency and reported that home loans and super-debreds were completed at the time, but there would still be a lot of work for the office to help young people in debt on the grounds of consumer debt. They were young people, often with children, who did not reach the end of each month. They just don't have money for young families for needed expenses, such as high school expenses, clothing, and rent. These normal and needed expenses are gradually funded by short - term loans, such as bank surfaces. At the same time, we have seen that young people's income has been attracted to other social groups. Young people have not been able to gain the same amount of money as older ones. A respectable president. Young families have nothing to do with this. It is during the course of life that expenses are high. Children need to be established. They need to be educated. rent has to be paid, work has to be done. And someone might say, "It's nothing new. It's been going through all these generations. Everyone has had a hard time setting up family and housing. But this is simply not true, for all the research and research we saw last year have shown that the situation of young people with a group is far worse today than before, for example. Ten years. Just these people have less power to buy. To do this, we need to give special attention to the budget, dignified senators. We need to examine it, for example. by checking the country's income exchanges and the state, because we need to help our rural communities give mostly free play schools and other services to assist young children's families. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u19	Mr. President. Westerners have had problems with reduced population size and lack of employment tools. This negative trend has lasted for over 40 years. That has even been true. so that over time, rural areas in the quarter have been difficult to perform basic services. Thus, Westerners have been in a great struggle for protection when it comes to building up a foundation in the community, resulting in widespread pessimism for the future of the territory. But now there are new times on the West. At last, opportunities have been created to reverse this negative trend by increasing the value of the region and by seeing the West as an exciting facility. Growing workplaces, such as tourism, technology, and fish farms, have the potential to become trapped in the commercial life of the West. Also, powerful companies have stuck to their posts in spite of obstacles. These opportunities are part of the need for us to work with our jobs to increase the value of national preparation, for the benefit of all the people of the land. This can be used to turn the defenses on the offensive. However, more is needed than having an opportunity, since the Westerners need tools to make good use of opportunities. During the wintertime, there are better times. I don't think the Westerners were so optimistic about what the area has to offer in the years when the cards are held right. We need consultations, on the contrary, in order to solve urgent issues involved in the entrances of the area so that the Westerners can continue to expand. I believe that such investments will pay off many times for all Icelanders, whether they live in Flattuus or in the West Side of Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u20	A respectable president. At the beginning of this council, I would like to emphasize cooperation and cooperation here at the council. It is, therefore, appropriate to start by wishing anyway. Residents on the 100th birthday of the party and a good party, thank you very much. At the assembly, the president of the Republic called attention to the lack of confidence in this institution and showed that the people of Iceland judged the general people by their actions, manners, and practices. I have no doubt that both the voters of last elections as well as the ones who have sat before us have had the vision and the goal of working hard with the people's interests guided. I also believe it, and I know that the discussion in this hall does not necessarily indicate how the entire job is being conducted. I have hoped that the work assigned to the council will be very meaningful and meaningful, looking forward to that work. I look forward to dealing with the work in Congress, and I hope to have a pleasant cooperation with all members of Congress. A respectable president. I believe it's urgent that all of us, these 63 o'clock. Councilmen, let us join together on the vital task of strengthening confidence and faith during the council. To that end, it is necessary in my opinion to change the tradition of conversation that may have lasted a little too long. During the campaign, and now in the first few months of this assembly, I have had the privilege of meeting a number of people who have an opinion of our work. No one has given me the opinion that there is a need to sharpen lines between classes, that political differences and emphasis need to be made more prominent in the council. Most people, if not all of whom I have spoken to, feel that more cooperation and improved work activity need to be stressed. Or as one mother said to me: Stop arguing and work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u21	V.E.G. President. I agree with those members of Congress who have expressed themselves because of the situation in Syria. It's scary. Of course, we are watching the position of the United Nations. In this chair, I wanted to say that there are three things the Icelandic government has been doing for this reason. First, we have been exerting ourselves internationally. We have severely criticized the activities of the United Nations Security Council because it shows in this matter that the cause of denial simply does not work. This war has now raged for five years, and the situation is completely inexcusable. There, our members, the NTSB, have made our case very clear. Also, on Friday's most unusual occasion, the UN General Assembly agreed with a overwhelming majority of votes that called for arms to be dropped and immediate attack on citizens. The northern countries gave a joint talk during the General Assembly to protest the matter strongly. Second, government agencies have greatly increased funding for the humanitarian efforts of the region through the UN institutions. Last year, two billion were given because of the refugee problem in Syria, and we plan to raise the budget even more than that of the United Nations organization there. Third, we Icelanders have met with Syrian refugees, we took over 40 people before this year, and we plan to meet some 50 people at the start of the next year. Iceland is truly taking positive action in this regard, although it is always possible to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u22	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to raise the budget for 2016 that is available on deck. 10. The bill contains a revised income plan and proposal for changes in the budgets of various budgets during 2016 to the General Assembly. It is proper to assume that the largest budget of the bill turns to the pension debt, which on the other hand is the monocommunication due to the A team, according to a bill for a law I recommended on Tuesday, and, on the other hand, the review of state funds on the commitments of nursing homes and various bodies to welfare services. The proposals in the bill note events in other respects of new legislation, uncertainty, and unscheduled expenses and the government's decisions on expenses due to urgent projects that have been reported since the approval of budgets in October. Law No. 88/1997, of the government's income, is a clear policy on the role and content of budgets. It is expected that all predictable budgets will be made in financial terms, but financial contributions will be covered on the budgets that could not be provided under budgets. In preparing the budget bill, it has been emphasized to be acting in accordance with the role of budgets as defined in financing so that it consists primarily of suggestions on unforeseen and inevitable budgets. It is assumed that other financial arrangements will either continue to be the responsibility of the relevant legal remedy or that the events will be considered in the next year's budget, as these matters need to be resolved permanently and not just to be considered temporarily with a bank account. In this way, adequate maintenance of the government's financial administration will continue to ensure that there will be an interference within acceptable limits. A respectable president. This financial bill is presented under unconventional conditions. First of all, it's a temporary employment program. Second, the bill is the second budget bill of the year, but earlier in September a bill became the law of October. Only in that bill did changes in financial resources have been made because of a few specific and unforeseen spendings, especially those who had been specifically discussed in the government during the year or were subject to the shock of commitment. A total of 5.1 billion gained a weight of 1.5 billion. additional contributions from a new framework contract on nursing homes. The former bill was not conventional and a pan-European financial bill was reevaluated with a reassessment of the budget of budget-shaped income, along with a complete review of the remuneration gate, with subsequent changes in the legislation on the reviews of state funds, funds and sources as well as special statements and detailed reports. So it is the primary objective of this bill to provide a comprehensive and traditional financial bill for 2016. However, in a general report on the accepted income side estimates, the previous bill was not included in a complete summary, nor were the laws being changed. In my history, I want to know that budgets for 2016 will be the last ones to fall under the older budget from before a new government law approved by the older law of No. 88/1997, because this is where the law takes over in the new year. Their laws on the role of amendments are similar to the terms of financial guise, yet they clearly point to the viewpoints that I discussed above. The laws on public finances require that the secretary's permission consult additional financial documents in the bill for financial support to deal with temporary, unforeseen, and inevitable expenses within the budget, as these cannot be dealt with by means of other measures. This refers to a release by means of advisers to transfer legal documents within the budget or to use the so - called reserve for the case. These two, permission to make changes within the seminary and then the reserve, are to reduce the need for a financial bill as we have known it so far. So it will further reduce the scope of budgetary laws and increase the responsibility of the Ministry to use effective financial management in the sectors and their litigators. That's when I went to the Outcomes of 2016. In the current budget for 2016, the third year was arranged in a row for the total balance of 6,7 billion. on the base of the management sector when a stable supply is excluded. They totaled 338.9 billion dollars. The sum of the remainder of the budget was 3,45.6 billion. This year's budget has been re-evaluated and based on up-to-date income schemes developed in connection with the preparation of a budget bill for 2017. Then the cost of the year has also been re-evaluated, but I draw attention to the fact that this bill discusses changes in budgets from 2016 plus budgets from October. The bill assumes that atoms increase by over 90 billion dollars. but an increase of 130.3 billion. It is then assumed that interest revenues will drop by over 1 billion. However, interest costs are expected to decline by 2.9 billion dollars. A total of 89 billion dollars, therefore, are expected to increase total income. from a budget plan, but to total budgets for spending goes up 127.4 billion from a budget as well as budgets since October. If this continues to occur, total equations are expected to be 302 billion. including stability contributions, except for those, he will be negative by 77 billion dollars. The majority of the modified yields that have been attributed here are explained by irregular and mono-changes in both the income and the reciprocal aspects. On the income side, an estimated 40.4 billion dollars is expected. In addition to the reassessment of accounting maintenance management, the 2016 budget expected that this part of the contributions would be made next year. Business interest payments are expected to increase 18.7 billion dollars. counted as 4.5 billion k. increase money from Iceland Bank that is classified as a stable contribution. At the same time, it is assumed that the fiscal tax will be 4.9 billion dollars. higher, explained by higher interest payments. It should be noted that the fiscal tax will also move to pay and will not affect the survival of the State Fund. At the end of the bill, this is also expected for a further 108.5 billion dollars. a single intervention of the RLSR, as mentioned above, is also expected at 9.5 billion U.S.A. ablation of exchange on the base of the network due to the review of state funds on the pension debt of nursing homes and various health and social services organisations. Looking past these irregular changes, it is estimated that there will be a positive increase of 77 billion, i.e. 3.2% of GDP. Among the 55 billion angles in vegetation, the total share in total growth is expected to be over 22 billion, corresponding to 0.9% of gross domestic product. There are nearly 16 billion improvements in government funds from current financial laws. According to the bill, the income of the state's budget is growing, as stated earlier, about 89 billion dollars. From a current budget or 9% from a budget plan. The rate of growth is estimated to decrease by 1 billion, resulting in an increase in income of more than 90 billion. First of all, tax returns to 29.2 billion on the basis of budget. These include the increase in income and profits of individuals by 12.3 billion because of the better economic progress of the present year than predictions indicated by budget. Economic progress in 2016 has been considerably better than expected in making budgets. Thus, economic activities have increased, and taxes have been collected for the remaining year. This will reduce taxes on income and profits by $1.4 billion. and become clear including due to the lower GDP rates by 2015 than expected which is an indirect contributing factor in the reduction of income tax assessment this year. Also, a special tax on law will drop by 1 billion which is mainly explained by the reassessment of the tax stock. Second, government funds increase by 18.7 billion, except for the side effects on stability production, beyond the budget of budgets, but more money from the clients, especially Iceland's Bank and Iceland Bank, it is clear that there will be no more money paid from the Bank of Iceland, as planned by the Plan. Third, a 40.4 billion standard of stability is expected to be exceeded, but it is moving in 2016, not in 2017, as previously expected on this aspect of the stability proposal. But there are 4.5 billion of these because of money paid from Iceland Bank. Fourth, except for other smaller changes in total income of 700 million. K. to increase. The budget has also been revised in the light of the changed forecasts and economic development of the year. The real value of accounting during the first nine months of the year and the projections for the development of annual spendings, as well as the various available government decisions over the year, is taken into account. The bill asks that government funds in 2016 be increased by 127.4 billion dollars. but this represents an 18% increase in total budgets of the current budget including changes made in previous budgets. First, the rate of spending in the current year is expected to increase by 118 billion dollars. which can be attributed to a single-mutation of the new A-investment of the Pension Department's Pension Fund and the custody of Pension bonds. A New Organization means that the state fund will have to contribute 108.5 billion singles of this year to a special pension fund. The aim of these changes is to adapt the Department of Pension to the Department of Life for the General Jobs. This includes assuming that the age - related production of pension rights will be replaced by the level of recycling that has been done without the limitations of the former employee's rights. In addition, the bill assumes 9.5 billion dollars. a single-change process due to the custody of the state's budget of pension bonds in the B-counter Pension Fund of government staff and the Pension Fund of Nurses. One is 5.9 billion. Penalties binding to various members of society that provide health and/or social services and 3.6 billion, respectively. The pension debt of a nurse's house. It may be that this year, in a previous financial bill, it has appeared and followed them like now another bill on the equivalent of pension rights. When it became clear that this bill was not done by elections, the General decided to comply with a proposal from the previous budget bill for a contribution to the LS. Now, both of these bills have come back, and I'm going to let it be said that I think that everyone has to see that it's necessary for the General of the Council to see how the pension is treated before the final position can be taken into account in the budget bill. Therefore, the best chance for the council to be tried is to set priorities in a way that would permanently be settled in what I would like to call the right order. Next thing I'm going to do is get to another deposit commitment that's up to 12.8 billion. The increase in expenses due to reevaluation of system-based costs is now estimated to be 4.2 billion. In this case, the high costs of health care for specialists and general medications, S-labelled medicinal products, helpers, training, dentists, and urgent treatment abroad are expected to be a total of 3.2 billion U.S. It is then estimated that the excess cost of social security will be 1 billion. The increase in expenses is mainly due to a larger increase between the years than the budgets expected. The increase in health insurance will include There is increasing growth in the number of specialist physicians, increasing the number of elderly applications by means of tools, and a significantly greater increase in drug use than there is a lack of action in the current year, such as increasing patient payment, in order to ensure that the expenses for the joint are within the budget. This can be attributed to the growth in social security, including to increase the number of micropigs beyond the scope of the budget. It is also estimated that the budget of the state's budget will increase by 2.6 billion dollars. ... as a result of the increase in the state's pension debt to the B Company. But under the law, the pension payment in the B-CU is rising in the rhythm of the remuneration of the pensioner. That's when the bill assumes a $1.4 billion bill. A further source for the road generation due to a collection of winter services in the past year's winter service. They look to the situation as it was at the end of the last year. Here you might wonder, " Is the accumulation of this kind more important than the fact that it is a rather long practice that it is done in financial aid, when there has been no explanation for it? ' Generally speaking, I would have thought that joints like this would be treated in the final budget. However, this is put here in a budget bill in line with a very long routine in terms of the need for additional resources to go to Vega because of a cumulative angle. Other large changes to the increase in budget binding are an additional build-up of 1.2 billion dollars. growth rate at the base of business, 700 million. K. a donation to face a large number of applications for asylum in Iceland and 623 million. K. up-registered to rural congregations in accordance with the revised legal requirements. Finally, a total of 2.1 billion will be raised by various other expenditures. This is a reassessment of the expenses of various smaller joints. Third, a total of 5.7 billion would be expected to be reduced in terms of payment. This is the largest reduction due to a reassessment of unemployment costs in the current year or at 2.5 billion dollars. caused by a decrease in unemployment. Children's hair saves are also expected to decrease by 1.3 billion dollars. From what was planned on in the budget. This decrease can be attributed to increased income reduction, which is explained by the higher home income than expected. It is then assumed that $1.1 billion will be spent. which was estimated to cover housing improvements from mid-year 2016. At the spring meeting, a law on housing was adopted, but the law does not go into effect until January 1, 2017, and it does not come to this budget in the current year. Finally, it is estimated that paying interest to those who have paid interest on loans on their own housing will be 800 million. K. under the budget of 2016. This, like child reform, becomes apparent after the government taxpayer's stress has been completed. When it is available, you can see how these joints are calculated. Fourth, there is an increase in expenses funded by government income of 5.1 billion. The increase is much clearer by the capital tax paid by the state's funds and is also moving on the income side of the state's budget. This has virtually no effect on overall survival. Fifth, interest costs for the current year are expected to be 2.9 billion lower than expected by budgeting. The reduction was largely explained by the payment of a bill of deposit in the U.S. sales on payday in June, but financial funds were expected to pay for it. A lower interest rate is also explained by the granting of the Icelandic kroner, beyond what was expected to be in the budget and a lower interest level. A respectable president. Then I'll briefly move to the changes presented in Article 3. The bill on loans, loans, and federal responsibilities. The 1st is suggested that the general financial and economic loans on behalf of the state's funds be $90 billion. The budget estimated that this year's loans of the A State Fund would be up to 129.2 billion, calculated as 65 billion loans within the country and 64 billion abroad. It is now estimated that this year the total loan of the A State Fund will be 90 billion bucks. and all within the country. Thus, the change in estimated borrowing is 39 billion to decrease. The figure in the 90 billion estimated loans is up to 25 billion copies of government letters for funding a contribution to the Pentateuch of the State's Pentateuch in connection with the proposed payment of state funds for the fund. The 2nd Amendment proposed changes in the state's budgets according to the prospects for this year. The change is a total of 1.7 billion for the reduction of loans and for two ways. On one hand, 2 billion to reduce loans to the Icelandic loan fund, in line with the reevaluated financial needs of the fund. 300 million, however. K. rise in warrant due to the Road of Vell, which will be 2.4 billion. in accordance with a re-evaluation plan on the financial needs of the company this year. The 3rd stipulation is suggested by changes to the granting of state responsibilities on corporate loans and funds that are authorized to borrow separately. We've got two adjustments. One is a 27.9 billion decrease in land reimbursement loan. The company received 65 billion dollars. entitlement to borrow with state responsibilities for financial gain, including ... withexploitation plan. It will then appear that the reimbursement will be much smaller than previously planned and that the company's borrowing will be up to 37.1 billion per year. However, 1 billion will be submitted. reduction of building-based loans. The Agency, which has $3 billion. A loan in the budget, using $2 billion. ... witha bond version of the autumnmonth, and no further plans to borrow this year. The fourth is suggested that special loans for deposit be removed. The undeniably part of Iceland's Pentateuch has grown in recent years because of the high influx of foreign currency, and so loans have not been needed to support the escape. It is suggested that the warrant be removed. The current global budget has been revised and revised this year according to the results of the bill includes significant changes from budgets, since it is now estimated that hand - given funds from business will be negative by 21.2 billion dollars, negative financial movements by 72.9 billion, and pure loans, thus negative by 94 billion dollars. It is estimated that in addition to loans and payments made by Iceland's Federal Bank, there will be a total of 106.4 billion dollars. and that the government funds drop it by about 200.5 billion dollars. This year. I'm telling you, we're down to less than 54 billion dollars. from what was expected to be paid for. In addition, emissions over the influx of financing are now expected to be 97.4 billion. More than the previous plan, especially since the sale of property items at the Lands Bank estimated to deliver more than 70 billion into the state fund, as well as 183 billion of the totals of Pension at the head of the head of the state's Penitentiary. As a result, a clean loan rate of about 151 billion drops. from what was estimated to be due to previous budgets in October. The share of loans and payments is also less estimated than expected, mainly because of the failure of the proposed sale of property items in the Lands Bank, which had been assumed to use the sale value for subsidies. According to the above, it is estimated that this year's amount of money will be a negative amount of 94.1 billion will be paid at 60 billion and that the government fund will pay off debt by 166.4 billion dollars. It is expected that the state funds set at Iceland's National Bank will drop to a minimum, i.e. About 200.5 billion dollars. Finally, four sources are applied in the bill, and they are outlined in Article 4. The bill. Regarding these changes, I refer to a discussion in chapter 5 of the report with the bill, i.e. about permissions. A respectable president. I've studied the key elements of this bill to raise funds for 2016. I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The Senate budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u23	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for the tour. Investments are used to provide a source of unforeseen expenses. So I would like to ask about the 100 million that will be made up of 1,98 different contributions from the Department of Employment and Development. 100 million are to be provided for a special marketing campaign on foreign markets of sheep products due to expected growth in supply. Of course, these are not unforeseen expenses. We've seen how the Ministry has set up, especially the Sea Scourges and Farmers Department, contracts with farmers, and it's quite known that there's overproduction of sheep that leads to a lower price, and it's too much of it on the market, so here's a provision to get it out. That's 100 million taxpayers. I'd like to ask you about this arrangement. First, the taxpayers pay for farm grants in order to produce sheep and everything in good condition. That's between 5 and 6 billion who only go to the sheep's deal, I remember. Then the system around it is so crazy that, as I traced before, farmers obviously don't get anything for these products because the overproduction is so high and when things go so bad, the taxpayers should start paying again to try to get it out and make no more. It's become so roundy and it's been for so many years that I want to ask the highest. Ministers why it is still like this again and what is so unforeseeable about these expenditures when it comes to how the system that is laid up implies exactly this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u24	A respectable president. It's been a long time, long years, nice support in the Generals for supporting sheep farming in the country. There has been a difference of opinion as to how this should be done. During the next three years, we have been invited to sign up for continued inspection. Regarding the 800 to 61,000 unsolved tons of sheep meat, which are the main reasons for the budgetary bill asked here, it is particularly that some 600 tons of that were planned to negotiate with Norwegians who, due to overproduction in Norway, withdrew from buying according to the current contract. There were unforeseen situations that would have resulted in failure to respond to a major loss of income for farmers in the land. One estimate is that there are other markets to achieve this production for sale, but it is clear that the domestic market could not have gone through without a major disorder. In order to support market initiatives in other markets, I'm saying that this is a short-term project, this proposal is made in the budget bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u25	A respectable president. What I'm saying is that Iceland's Food Land, as the project is called, is already 100 million on budget. So because the Norwegians decide to eat their own meat instead of buying it from the outside, there's 100 million people to go to the Food Land and they're supposed to do something about it. Is it not clear that the problem is that we produce too much? If we produce less, if farmers produce less, then the price goes up. I've said it's a lot of quality meat, it's a lot of quality products, that we shouldn't be producing so much mass. We're supposed to raise prices to farmers. It's a luxury product. Lambs of lambs growing up in the open - this is exactly zero factory farming. That's how we're supposed to market it, and it stays within the country because we get nothing much from it abroad anyway. This is just an expense for the taxpayers to throw it out. What do we get for that? Yeah, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, V.E.G. Secretary of finance may want to tell me what the money is that comes through this market.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u26	A respectable president. As I turned out, the first thing we see is that money doesn't become like sheep's farms. I can say with what. A senator who is promoted the quality of Iceland's production of this product. It can be achieved, as demand for wholesome and wholesome foods is developing in the world, that there must be an opportunity elsewhere. But there are many other complex factors that are involved here. It is competitive because of another import, another production, it takes a great deal of marketing to win a new market. I'm sorry, but the question about how we were best driven by the amount of production in sheep farms cannot be answered from the platform today. Of course, it must always be a pressing question when we are stuck with excess production. Is there something there that needs to be looked at? This is mainly due to the fact that approximately 600 tons previously planned for the deal with the Norwegians do not go there because they don't buy the product, and that's 600 of the more than 800 to 1,000 tons that are under here. I agree with what. In addition to other contributions we have thought about making a marketing campaign for Icelandic products, a senator noted that these are large sums of money. However, the difference between this specific contribution is that short-term projects are taken into consideration during the livestock contracts, with a much longer period of attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u27	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. We haven't had much time to cross the bill. I can see, though, that once again, the billions of members of the United States do not go out as the General agrees to provide family members in the country. The General Assembly agreed for 2016 that 10.8 billion should go to the children's family, but only 9.6 billion do so from that amount. 1,200 million. K. is returned to the state fund. Now it's so that child support seems to be impaired by 200 yards. K. a month's pay. Not even minimum-payers get full child support. The actual value has declined substantially since 2013, as the criteria have been 200 you. K. ever since then. Today, there are 12 thousand fewer children who receive compensation than they did in 2013. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Would it not have been natural when early this year saw what was going to make a adjustment in order to change the threshold so that the amount that the Council had agreed on for a child family would be right there? I also want to ask the highest. Minister: How does he see the development of child - rearing support and income balance? How does he see that role develop to the future? Next year, a child's improvement is expected only to begin at 225 yous. K. month. In what ways is the plan more reliable and reliable than before 2016? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u28	A respectable president. When we planned budgets for child reforms and reforms in 2016 at the time, we watched to see that the funds were involved in specific revenues and property development during the year. When it became evident that income increased beyond what was previously planned, not all the funds were put to the test. Then you might ask yourself, " Should I continue to stick to the goal of getting a certain amount of money into that category? ' I think it might be said against the view that the Council had arranged for the average income, to aim for some kind of possession development, this money would go out. But it was never in itself a decision to, regardless of pay or property development, to reach home would have to be 10.6 billion. In recent years, we have increased the levels of income savings and increased the total sum of money. It has meant that we have added more crowns to those who have a lower salary and a lower ownership status. In the next year's financial bill, we take into account the results we received during the stress of the governor of the tax business this year because of the previous year. Therefore, we feel that the increase in income spending will increase next year, and the increase in the financial level will increase in the number of families in the country. But the foundation here has quite a raise in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u29	Madam President. The situation is now that a couple in the lowest quarter of the income receives about 2 of you. K. in a month of child support. Surely we need to consider the role of the child reform system. Is it to strengthen all the poorest people in the country that is under the minimum or near limit, or do we here have a system that balances the status of children compared to the status of others in the community? While the pay card has increased by less than 30%, the limits for the full pay have remained unchanged. They need to review the role and take up political discussions and give us time to discuss the role of the system. But there's something else I want to ask the highest. Minister to the top, i.e. Plan of interest. I haven't had a good idea about these things lately. In 2015, the final result was 30 billion on interest payments. I think it's 36 billion by 2016, with an additional one, but the estimate for 2017 is 16 billion. Is it not there, in the course of an extremely insane plan? Or why it is not more planned in 2017 when our share is greater than, for example, in the year 2017. Before 2015? Then an estimated 15.4 billion in profit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u30	A respectable president. Yeah, well, we can think about how to build the growth reforms and children's reform systems. I've always found it very important that we look at it in an overall context, in the context of the income tax burden, which is mainly being looked at. That we will consider other support systems, such as the housing reform system, which also includes family size, and that we always make sure that there is not enough income and property connections to be placed here and there in the system that the trip tax effect has become unacceptable. People may find that they have too little to pay because of a variety of types of decrease in income - raise issues. Peripheral taxes have been shown to be able to study up to 50% in certain cases. We need to continue this discussion. In terms of a budget, it is true that in recent years we have been getting used to making money so much more money than we have anticipated. This procedure has been carried out in the matter of searching for the Council of Bankies, which carries the holdings of the state in the banks. The next year's budget is not generally available when it is prepared. It would be unwise to go far into the future what suggestions the current business banker will make in the coming year without having anything to do with it. In a way, it was an inaccurate science, but I like it better when we underestimated money from money money than when we overexploited it, especially when humans plan ahead and then plan things that were overrated to some permanent cost. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u31	Madam President. Thank you very much. A financial minister who works for the legend, and the answers were also good. Well, we're working on a budget bill, which is very clear that it's pretty much teased, that I know, and many others. It's good to see that the government's earnings are growing. A financial minister did well over what his income is and how it is growing. But, as a means to understand, expenses are also being referred to in the bill. As I said at the beginning of this meeting, I was very upset that the matter was on the program at 10:30 p.m. A financial committee has been meeting constantly and trying to put together adequate changes in the already existing bill, so we have not been given the opportunity to go through this bill, but it affects the financial work ahead of what they can find. It would have been unsatisfactory to present this meeting until noon so that legal committees could at least view the matter properly. Enough about that. First and last, as we know, the state's position is based on irregular donations and the income of the broilers, largely. The operation could be even better if it had not been carried out on the activities of this government, and we are well - known. I immediately found out about the rental on page 6. 41 where there are major spending changes. Now more than 1.2 billion are being added to building a rented apartment. It's not in the bill to cover 2017, as far as I know. I would have liked to see that at least. A project that the government has approved would be funded, a project that she agreed on during the more part of the council, that at least it was financed into the future, not put in financial contributions, and then expected the council to accept it as well. It seems to be a choice which of the government's decisions will go into the bill we're considering right now, e.g. was determined to stick to the intermediate phase of the income tax. Some are taken into account as regards the decisions of the previous government, and no other choice. I don't think it's okay for me to do this kind of thing. There's a lot of things here that we're always talking about, every year, for example. The winter service at the Road Building and the extra stock budget, which may not be annual. The Social Security is also inside, which I'll be back for later. The tax returns normally due to an increase in pay. It returns to the state. Then there are the interest payments mentioned, and we've talked a lot about it and we don't agree on approach. Our left greens and others have suggested that there can be an estimate of more money than has been done. There are 23 billion that will be added. We're not talking about any pennies. Although we had estimated only half of it, as we planned to discuss with the current budget, it is quite clear that year after year it has been so special that it is one of the things that is always kept on the lower side, although I may agree not to be viewed as money that can be spent ahead of time. But this is one of the things we talked about with the budget and suggested. In the day, it's been going along and on. I'm only going to go to the lawsuits, i.e. ... thespecialbalone under here. I say again that we are expected to get coverage of this on the budget board today, and then we can discuss this even more with the Minister and Ministry. I'm happy with a few things that are suggested in this financial bill. For example, one of the points we pointed to during the discussion is not to be expected. It's Akureyri High School. 30 million are suggested by changes in the time frame, but the study is being shortened for three years, as in other schools. As a result, the service year begins earlier, because schools in the Eyjafjörður and east of the Netherlands can work more together, and then they need to have a suitable service year. This costs 44 million, but for some reason, the school is to be worn 14, because this is merely 30. I don't believe that school will be especially exhilarating. I'm glad that the Deaf's Communication Center and the Deaf get additional funds. This is one of the important things that we put high priority on both these budgets and the budgets in the past, that the communication center will get the money it needs so that interpretation services are decent in this country. She hasn't been. People who are in need of such service have been eager to serve. I'm not convinced that the 77 million who are put to the test but are not going to claim it, because I haven't had a chance to go over it with them about the situation in the case. It is also good to be replaced by house - to - house subsidies. One factor we have talked about is balance the cost of house warming. This is a plan made, and it was clear that funds were needed to be added. There was no need for a plan that was so determined to be stored and is being financed here by up to 70 million in the years that we are living up to our commitments. I'd like to take care of the D.A. for a few minutes. It's 75 billion. K. increase in donations to meet the unseen loss of income due to participation of the Frontex Quality of the Work Programme. It is clear, however, that income loss will also reach in the coming years. Therefore, it is very special to see that the National Guard, which has just called attention to its status and what this means not just for sailors but for the people of the country, both us regular and tourists, cannot perform the ministry adequately. Next year, 300 million people are needed to keep their ships and third helicopters at a minimum. We're talking about men who can't be lost. I hope there's an agreement on the budget board doing the budget bill that we're going to be there, but of course it should have been on the bill. There's a situation like this. The same can be said of the Roadmaker. It is the snowstorm, an eternity of work, and the service team has been taken out of it in an effort to meet it. You cannot say otherwise in view of the fact that the road is being added to the problem and the way the European Commission behaves in terms of the approval of the Parliament's arrangement, with all due votes in the Assembly Hall. It is worth reminding us again that the later financial program was adopted by the then greater part of the forward - and - independent group, but the transport program was adopted by all the members of the council who were then sitting in the hall. When that transport program was conducted by the Minister of the Interior State, she said that she trusted to finance it. Still, it was about 3 billion higher than the national financial program of her fellow minister, which later appeared. Money is added to the insurance agency so that it can adapt the computer systems and provide improvements according to the new law and perform its duties properly. There's a lot of people in the system that we need to remember that there's a great need for new equipment, so I don't mention high school, which many people are in very bad shape about. But this is the best thing to do. Then it's the pension policy. There is an increase due to the growth of micropigs, and age - related disability and biofuels have been raised. It needs to be met. I must say, I miss not seeing, once again, despite the debate, despite all the election talk, that micro- and older citizens have arrived with a retrospective payment to May 1. In the time of goodness, as is said here, I find it very special that once again this group will be left behind. One of the things we deal with each year is health insurance and the high cost there. That's even. as the medical cost increases, i.e. Contracts with expert physicians, for they will be changing according to the pay grade. It is never expected in financial terms, which are very special. Then there are additional sources of spending, growth, and other things that health insurance expected would be considerably higher than the Ministry of finance decided it would be. It's a plan, and we're always sharpening our institutions to make good plans, real plans, good plans. However, as presented above, the budget allows for 1% increase in drug levels between the years, while health insurance protocols assumed that the increase would be considerably higher, or 3.5% above the previous year's absolute rate. What happens? That's what it says. We take this for every year, the S-labelled medicines, we take them for every year. Despite the experience, they are never expected to become what they are. 430 million are added. There is an increase as well as that, and it becomes the Ministry to collect information, estimated savings due to the non-reliance of anti-drugs with Renegade, and we need to know why and how much money is involved. It also speaks of dentists, but the agreement with dentists assumes that some climate change will take into account the pay number. The same is true today. That is 160 million in total, and 100 million are involved. It's not good that we set the law this way. At the end of this study, it is a pleasure to see that there is an application for stock contributions for the camp, more than expected. I think it's very positive. But once again, I repeat that the team is up by 1,200 million, but it is not assumed into this additional, which has been missing by half the Ministry. I don't understand why they don't do that. The whole big thing is so much of the Penitentiary that I've been through, and I've been over for a discussion that I'm sorry I missed because I was at a meeting with a legal committee. Again and again, I repeat that even with financial committees, we don't have the opportunity to keep track of everything here. I agree with what. paritaprevir "Odduja G. Oddný Harðardóttir about her child's settlements and the discussion between her and the acting minister. " It's disturbing that we should have such a low standard for the child reforms when we talk about the 300s. K. A minimum wage is something we can accept. Of course, it is not okay for a child - welfare defect to start with a much lower salary. [[The president calls.]] There's something else I could go over with the Environment and Resource Ministry, but the time's up, so we'll have to wait for the next round.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u32	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnsdóttir's Gunnarsdóttir that the outworking of this case had been better. We got it at nine o'clock last night and start a discussion at 10:30 a.m. That's what I said. I read it upstairs in bed before I went to bed last night. I got all right in my hair, and I slept gently after I had looked at it, but I ran across a few things I'd like to make up for talk, and I didn't even think I'd put myself in everything I've been doing here. First, there is a donation to the deaf and the deaf. I was in the meaning that this bill was designed to handle unpredictable financial arrangements. This additional amount of money for interpretation in daily life is an annual assurance of events. It's like a autumn ship in the state's affairs, that the government of Iceland settles down and decides to give extra money into this fund. It needs to be stopped. In 2011, Icelandic and Icelandic Sign Language were approved by law. By doing so, people were recognized as valid members of the community. The need always to make small contributions to save this fund so that deaf and deaf people can have a full share in daily life is a disgrace. To contribute it as unforeseen expenses is just silly, to no one's credit. Then I'd like to go back to a bigger institution, the Land Hospital. Some 100 million dollars are proposed. sheep from increased stress. I think it's kind of funny. This is an institution that owns the budget of the current year receives 51 billion, an institution where director speaks of neglecting 5.5 billion just to keep a lamp. I don't know if it's enough to say it's hardly in the nose of a cat, but I think we need some kind of nasal animal to describe it. 100 million in this context is hardly anything for an institution like the Land Hospital. Then I would like to make a note that this is especially the case because of the pressures of many refugees and the increase in foreign tourists. I don't think the 5.5 billion people the hospital needs are the ones that take refuge. I don't think that saying that in this text doesn't make sense. The land hospital is to deal well with everyone in the country. He is to heal without flaunting the status of people. Those who seek them are a sensitive group to whom we should take good care of. The land hospital is a big, important organization that we should be much more concerned with and that we have an ignominious amount and that counts to this vulnerable group, especially to me that neither one of us feels good. Then I'd like to mention one small detail that I saw in the head of the Environment and Resource Ministry, which is the first team, a variety of projects. They apply about 3 million dollars. a donation to start a formal work in preparation for the renovation of the Earth's Lakes National Park on the UNESCO World Memorial Index. This is classified as a task force for free partners. I was in the meaning that both the Ministry and the Waterland Park were under the umbrella of the government, and I don't know that this is a free organization. The committee might consider whether this is an application for a donation, in the interest of a matter I support my mind, or taking a money in the wrong pocket of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u33	Mr. President. As we noted earlier today, only a short period of time has since the budget bill was distributed. I readily admit that I didn't have time to read it after 10:00 last night and I've been at committee meetings all morning. However, there are a few things I would like to mention that are obvious when we turn down the bill. First, it is child support and growth. That's $2 billion. which the General had agreed that they would visit families in the country. There is reason to pause and review the discussion that took place when the 2016 financial bill was being discussed. At that time, a smaller part of the council pointed to the direction and proposed adjustments where child reforms, such as the U.S.A. Didn't start cutting off until minimum wage. It's basically the minimum. The criteria allow child damage to begin at 200 points. K. per month. These limits have been unchanged since 2013, and their real value is clearly drawn together at the same time as the pay sheet has increased by less than 30%, the real cost of child improvement is reduced by more than 12%, as well as by families paid to paediatric pay a reduction of 12 percent. Thus, during the last term, the role of support and balance in children has been greatly reduced. As we look at people in the lowest quarter get only 2 of you. K. in child reforms a month, a married couple with two children, the role of the system has grown thin. In my mind, the wrong course is to use the child - welfare system as some kind of money for the poor. We are to look to the Norwegian states where child reforms are not related and are designed to be supportive of family members in order to match their status with others. When the ratios have become the same as they are here and are made very clear in this financial bill, we see that there's not much balance. When we look at the bill before 2017, that's as good as it is. This figure accounts for an amount of 10.7 billion dollars. which is almost on the same scale as the General agreed should be a child improvement in 2013. True, the threshold is held up to 225 of yours. K. so that those under 225 you. K. I'm going to get perfect pedophiles, but those above that one get damaged pedophiles. The support of the children's families in the country, which are clearly the worst at analysis. The same is true of the growth reform system. The growing improvements are mainly designed to focus on the income and average income and are targeted on both income and property, but they have greatly reduced that system and now have twice as low as in 2013 as they are paid to raise 15 levels. fewer. As we look at the growth thresholds, they have not changed since 2010, but, at the same time, housing prices in the capital area have increased by 65%, 20% in price, and 50% in salary. The criteria are all in a way that reduces the role of the children's improved system and the growth system. This is a political matter that we need to take time to reflect on and draw out how this affects families in our country. The fact is, we can be with a family that has increased slightly, but real - estate estimates have also increased dramatically. This results in a reduction of the child's reforms and compensations and the provision of funds may be lower than the labour contracts that come in with the remuneration. This needs to be taken into context. I don't like the way this is done, saying, "Yes, we can be happy now that the amount of money to produce children's produce is lower, and that's because the people in this country have a higher income. They do not look back on how these coins are distributed or on the ratings below, which are shamefully low. This is what we need to consider and consider for our 2017 budget and then for the future. There is another big issue under which we have to look at, and there is the social security and the change that the smaller part has made up for budgets, both for 2015 and for the previous one coming in 2016, that the increase will be from 1st May 2016 but not from January 1, 2017, and that those who have to rely on insurance payments will be paid as soon as other citizens are paid. There's been an eight-month delay here. That's the poorest people in the country. It's certainly a table for carriers, as you can see when looking at the budget bill, and we're supposed to see our worth in raising our payments again from May 1st. In my answers in the past, at the top of the world. I talked to the secretary of finance about plans for interest. It's just as bad to go over like an over-development. We who are working with the budget bill at one time have to be able to trust that the plans are well along and that we know what we're doing, both on income and on expenses. It's been a year since money money is seriously underestimated, not by a few million or several billion dollars, but by dozens. I repeat, it's just as bad to plan like an overdose. It can be a single - trade operation that would be useful if money was paid. We must blow on it when people say that these changes cannot be made because those with the bill get information in June and therefore there is no way to change anything for the payment of a bill completed at the end of December, when the money investments are decided on the end of January or February. How we must know when the Kingdom is the owner of two large banks that share most of the money paid. It must be possible to grab the phone and see what is likely to happen after four weeks or so. Then we can set our expenses and work together. Salaries in 2015 went to 30 billion and 36 in 2016. It is estimated to be 16 billion in 2017. Clearly, there is something floundered about what needs to be considered. Prior talks on health insurance. It is certainly true that this is a matter that we record each year in allowances. But when we consider the figures that are now under the budget, it makes sense that there is a medical service to which we are paying extra. In that case, the collective agreement is made by expert analysts, where countings raise the pay from a government fund. The same is true of private service contracts. There are statistics that raise the pay from a government fund to either clinics or clinics. Obviously, the public system is at a time when this is due to an intensification. It is not expected that the growth will be increased or that we will take into account the age distribution of the people when we make financial decisions in the public health system, but when it comes to personal recovery, we will take into account both. It's going to hit the public system, and it's not gonna work. Finally: The Penitentiary and the large payment to equal the rights of those in the public markets and of the public markets is included in these budgets. I really hope that we can land that important issue. It is important that the basis for peace in the labour market, it is important for people to move between the public system and the general system of a labour market without losing rights or getting less pay, but it is also important for government bills. If we drop this big number in 2016, we don't have to lean on it, but if we pull it out and do it in 2017 or 2018, this is a home run over the year. This can have a very bad effect. I'm not gonna talk about it if we look at the financial rules we've created ourselves in the government of public finance. Third, it is very important for government personnel to shut down the A Containment and shut down the hole. We do not know how we or the state funds will be equipped to handle these commitments at some future time, and we may conclude that this will be a serious loss of pension money to public employees. So I think it's all very important, in any case, to reach an agreement on the bill that is now being developed on a committee. Actually, I don't remember if this is an economic and tax committee or an economic and business committee but I'm assuming people know what I'm talking about. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u34	Mr. President. I agree with what has been presented in the case of other members of Congress, including the Netherlands. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, about how late we senators are getting the budget for introductions. It is true that neither I nor more of the other members of Congress have had time to fully examine the budget. I'm going to look at certain issues that are the climate and the environment. But before I do, I want to give my highest commendation. Secretary of finance for making a suggestion in the budgets about 700 million. K. up-to-date contributions to face an increase in the number of inmates. As the text on that point points out that applications for global protection will be 1,100 per year, which is almost tripled in applications from year to year. These funds are being met with an increase in the cost of trust over the current budget of 2016. I'm glad this is how it's handled, because it would have been otherwise unnatural. But at the same time, I would like to point out the budget for the Land Hospital that the proposal is made about 100 million. K. budget for increased pressures because of a number of non-sponsored refugees and the increase in foreign tourists. I ask myself, " Is it enough? Is it really an increase compared to the expenses the governor of the Land Hospital has requested and requested to keep his business down? ' As mentioned earlier, I want to focus here on climate issues. I have previously noted in a speech at the council that next year's budget is unacceptable how small the budget is planned in that category, the climate, especially in connection with the signing and validation of the Paris Convention. But as it is known that Iceland's validated Paris Convention is an agreement on action against climate change in September 19th, when Iceland had signed the contract six months earlier. Next year's budget is 250 million. K. The earmarked application plan or funding of projects that fall under the climate programme, but unfortunately, this amount is for the three - year financing of projects, representing an average of 83 billion. K. A year spent in this group of litigation. I now find it extremely demeaning, with the importance and scope of climate and with the international agreement that we signed and validated so recently. This figure is about 67 million. K. ... threeyearsincarvail and a total of 8 million. K. in a carbon equation that can spread over two years. I miss not seeing the budget being added to the climate situation because the amount of money that goes on it under the budget for the coming years is completely unacceptable and out of harmony with the position we want to settle on the international level when it comes to the commitments, promises, and contracts we want to satisfy the climate. To this end, I realize that the role of the budget laws, as stated here in the introduction, is primarily to address the inevitable issues, including the influence of new labour agreements or new legislation in the year, but not to new projects, increased scope of operations, or management halls. However, this is a new contract signed and validated by September, so I believe that in terms of financial contributions, these agreements should be taken into account and increased funds to this seminar so that we can bear our heads high when it comes to validation of the contract and our status among the nations. I'll even wonder. For me, the financial contributions made to the State Department on the budget are not earmarked funds to the State Department, even though the State Department of State has an administration and part of the validation of the contract. When a petition was signed at a panel meeting, it was said that these commitments should be met with increased work on the existing staff, which I find in no way satisfactory. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that I miss it, and it's disappointing not to see an increase in the budget, which is certainly another reason. I would've liked to be the highest. A minister of finance would have shown his willingness to do better. According to this, I reiterate what I said at the outset, that I haven't had quite enough time to study the major classes of paint that are truly underneath. paritaprevir Adolescent's daughter, Harðardóttir G., was well - versed, including in the case of child reforms, interest rates, and other cases that take place, which are not being paid attention to the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-15-5.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with many of the people here who have spoken in terms of little time to study the bill since it came in and until it is discussed. That is especially sad when we have quite a few very wet ears and are so unoccupied. Still, it is natural to work fast and safely. I can say things with a lot of heads. Congress on specific points, so I'm not going to have this far. I'm only going to mention one team with regard to the Ministry of Education and Culture, i.e. The budget for Akureyri High School to 30 million is due to changes in school time frames. It has often shown that the budget is primarily designed to handle unforeseen changes. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that these are not unexpected changes. For less than two years, the highest. A minister of education gave a court order to give money on this project, but it could not be fulfilled for some reason. History is that after the gaudy races. A little over a year ago, a minister of education when he required teamwork, compression, or a team of colleges in the northeast, a large amount of work began in rural governments, school committees, and other schools in what ways to react. It's all been pretty badly prepared by the highest level. Secretary of education. However, the conclusion was that a committee in existence, in effect, was made up of the Eyll national body members, representatives from the high schools that discussed how the schools could work together. That work brought about an excellent outcome and reconciliation, where the scheme was to take on greater cooperation and, in effect, to respect the strength and purpose of small schools in peripheral areas and to put them in better ties with one another and especially with the larger schools in Akureyri. However, for that cooperation to have a start, the year of high school in Akureyri had to be changed, and that lack of money has prevented them from going to full - time jobs. While I am happy to see this on the budget, I show that this was certainly nothing unexpected and should have been paid to do so long ago.
