ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u1	With letters dated June 23, 2016, the president has requested this, as per the 8th stanzas of Figure 1. 13th par. Congress, to the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with the following reports: Pays for Real estate, Pursuitation Policy, Residence Insurance and Support for employment and community development.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u2	Mr. President. The Óskar Gís Gíslason son's documentary on the rescue effort at the Cantres of the winter of 1947 opened up to me yesterday as I watched the protests here in the East. The film describes how Icelandic rescuers accomplished a remarkable accomplishment in saving 12 shipwreckers of the British tugwreck Dhoon during a storm and were honored, both at home and abroad. These men put life and limb in grave danger of saving foreign people. This film is my favorite, because it feels so good about a part of the Icelandic soul that I think is real, and I am so proud of. The willingness to give help to those who are in a crisis and to be bold not to ask for the source of help. And the courage to help, even though they may carry some risk. Mr. President. I would like to encourage those who protest that me and the Icelanders will welcome the refugees and the refugees, so we will give them shelter to watch the film of the rescue effort at the Canon of Death. And I encourage them to reflect on what this image is, and the brave Western rescuers there tell us what it is to be Iceland, what we should be proud of in our history and culture, and what it is to keep. What a humble, negligent attitude toward those in need is not a part of it. Mr. President. Those who see too much control over the cost of securing human rights for the rest of the trusters, I would like to point out that all human rights cost. It takes a lot to protect the rights of property, a large part of law enforcement and police projects, a judicial system, to do so. But it's all coming back. Indeed, a number of studies show that countries that best protect human rights are also in general best place for economics. That is true of all human rights. And that is no coincidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u3	V.E.G. President. I'm proud of the independence party's success in the past three years. The independent party has worked to improve the interests of all the people of the country. There's been an increase in money. There's a minimum inflation here. There have been increases in pay, and there have been decreases in taxes. Tolls have been taken care of and paid for. There's been more advice on health and health care than ever before. In recent years, an additional 27 billion each year have been placed for social security. Yesterday a presentation was made on the bill that has entered the General Assembly and is subject to helping the young people who are buying their first real estate. This is a particularly important bill for young people. It encourages saving, and it encourages future thinking. If it is well kept, each person can save up to 5 billion. K. with its special pension and professional driver. When the person decides to take it out over a ten-year period, it is tax free. This is greatly improved by the young people who have not escaped from their parents'homes because they have not been able to resist payment and for the young people who have been rented and paid their rent in the sky, even tens of thousands higher in months than what they would pay of their own possession, if they had the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u4	V.E.G. President. More and more people now step forward and agree with what has been said for some time, that Iceland's Federal Bank is way too high. The latening bank has in recent years overrated inflation and inflation for the sake of percentages, apart from measuring inflation in ways other than in all other countries, OECD, i.e. by having real estate prices involved in in inflation analysis. Each month after the second month, in the stability that has been achieved by the forward - looking class and the Independence Party, it becomes evident that the only inflation rate in this country is those who work at the Federal Bank. It is not tolerated that each month after the second month, in Iceland, the height should be 5.5%, or, in fact, 6.5, for which inflation is around and less than 1%. This has been the last loss; both inflation is wrong and the quality of the steering growth is so high. This has resulted in a financial loan that most homes in Iceland have raised much more than they need and should have been. It's all there is to it. Last morning, there was a radio interview at Ólafur Margeirsson, a doctor for economics, at the Sign of the Wave, where he said that control fruits in Iceland should be about 2% lower than they are now. It must have to be at some point when the money administrations stop hitting their heads at the stone, even though their heads are thick, holding up the controls that are completely out of all shapes of reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u5	V.E.G. President. Soon the day will come, and an eventlike assembly will be over. I didn't think it was a good way to speed up elections at the time, but when people make promises, they have to be fulfilled. As we work here, we needed to know what the autumn program would look like. Now she's in a hurry, and that's fine. I look forward to total elections, and I am optimistic about the future gang gang gang gang gang gang gang gang gangs in which we are a very well - educated, progressive people all over the country. There's a lot of minds in people, because the class's topic status is very good. We corrected mutants of housing loans that included tens of thousands of homes. The proportion of budgets and annual income is higher in income - rich households than in earnings. A few years ago, 2012 ago, the homes in the country owed 125% of the gross domestic product and had the most debtable homes in the Western world. Last year the homes'debt went down to 84% of gross domestic product and fell to the debt of debt that has been here since the turn of the century. This decline is largely due to the government's actions, with the correction paid by bank requirements. I am returning now to the council. The contract went very well this spring. The total number of cases was taken in broad terms, e.g. big business, like the Four Housekeepers. So all I expect is that the Senate work will be successful now as well, and we will be able to complete the issues proposed by the government of Sigurður Ingi son of Jóhannsson. Yesterday, two basic radios from the government were introduced. At first glance, these bills look fine, although they may not be flawless, but I expect that their defects will be corrected during convergence. So my conclusion is that with these measures, there have been major steps, i.e. the measures introduced yesterday, under the lead of the move team, towards improving financial systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u6	Mr. President. There was a big presentation in Hörpe yesterday and there was a curtain set up, at the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance introduced how young people could acquire their first property. However, the mountain became feedable and was born to a small mouse, for helping young people to buy their first possessions is still an unsolved problem. There's nothing to deal with, there's no charge with the insurance policy, and there's no way that young people can handle their first down payment in an apartment. Is it just supposed to sit at home in the arms of Mom and Dad until they're 40 and they've already saved their savings? Of course, putting things together is not normal. There is no solution to telling young people that they should lay only for the next ten years. And where will they live during those ten years? Is it supposed to be in a rented home, which, of course, is very expensive, and it can't be handled either? Where is it to be, these young people with their families? We now assume that these young people will have children and will not wait on them for the next ten years as well. This is just one of the things the current government throws until 15 minutes in elections to make its independence party box, solves all the problems. He may solve the problems of the wealthy who have money to lay down each month, but young people who are taking their first steps in life with young children may not be able to afford to save for the next ten years to pay in ten years, and somewhere they must spend the meantime. This government has failed to meet the problems facing young people in the rented market, even though the housing products that were approved for us may not be until a few years ago. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u7	A respectable president. First, I want to say the word with the question. Magnúsdóttir Young people in their talk earlier are cordially accepted and thanking her for entering the position of young people. What I wanted to talk about in this brief period is that today Jón Steinsson published an article in the News magazine where he reviews how the movers have offered hunting documents that have been done in an experimental attempt first. There was a market for the operation of fishing warrants. The decision was made to experiment with auctions on a small section of fishing warrants or about 10%. Jón Steinsson reports that the auction was successful, the goody government received high price for fishing if the price is compared to the commercial fishing fees today. For codfish in the Barent Sea, An average of 3.42 Danish dancers per kilogram were given about a year. $2,000. In comparison, the Icelandic projections will pay more than 11 cents. In a catch of codfish next year. Thus, the difference is five times. I'd like to mention it, and I would like to say that in the last year's work on makovota, a group of Bjarts emphasized this route. Then it was behind what to do with these new fishing grounds. We wanted to do this exactly, try our way along the market, and bring this saying to an auction. The situation, however, is that it was decided not to do so, and I think that's why we've become involved in a considerable amount of money. [[The president calls.]] We just watch that fishing costs are now estimated at 4 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u8	A respectable president. I'm going to direct a query to what. Senator and president of the United States of America, Oddný Harðardóttir. In this hall, the new president of the Pentateuch said that he encouraged reasonableness in the discussion at the council and the society. In that light, the discussion of many who have taken place on the side of the United Nations draws attention. I'd like to ask the highest. A senator and chairman of the United States of America changed the focus of speeches and her publications in the United States. In this regard, at the end of the council in spring, just before recess, the chairman called me Donald Trump and described me as some racist in that regard. She has praised Shera Erla Serdar for calling me racist in public, and she thought that was a good job. I wondered, " Is it the Chairman's direction into the discussion that the president was putting in such strong lines? ' I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the secretary of the United States named three candidates at the SEC of the Southern District of Independence Party a variety of names. The no-good minister, and I wondered, " Do I want her to be equal to the Ministry's lesson? ' That's where I was named Rasist. One individual was called a condemned thief. I wondered if this is the way the United States wants to talk about people. Is it the opinion of the chairman of the United States that individuals who have been judged and returned to the community what they were condemned to carry that cup for the rest of their lives? Is not the United States ready to welcome them back into society and to respect their return to what they have lost in their lives?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u9	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for giving me a chance to respond to his words, but first I'd like to say that no one has I commended for calling him sick. Rasist's senator. In the United States, freedom of speech is high, and the Chairman does not tell members what they should or should not say. On the other hand, I stress that everyone can speak and avoid making judgments and hurting people and that humanity is always a priority. Hv. Elders especially need to be careful about what they say. Right away. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson wondered about the days on his Facebook page, and in the media, as a result of the lack of research on the background of the 1,500 Muslims who live in Iceland, many became angry and hurt. Hv. A senator wanted to see if there were any Icelandic Muslims. For some reason, a senator placed within his sheepfolds, had gone to a terrorist training camp, or had fought in Afghanistan, Syria, or other war - torn lands. Some people understood why. A senator so that he was promoting discrimination and promoting prejudice. As members of the General Assembly, we are to protect everyone's interests, regardless of his background, and we are to avoid promoting hatred and prejudice. It may be a temptation for some to resort to elections to speak into fear of the unknown, but we must resist such things and always take the lead in humanity and human rights. There should always be an opening point in every debate in the welfare and democracy. I expect that. A senator would agree with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u10	Mr. President. It is a pleasure to listen to members of the administrations come over here and to take credit for all the alleged achievements of the government. Today, these are no longer the joint achievements of the government groups. Rather, they are all thanks to the forward groups when the proselytists speak and the Independence Party speak. It's obviously getting shorter in the election. Many think, say an old Icelandic proverb, and point to the fact that many people tend to think like them, and all do like them. I have thought of this old saying during the past few days when appointed members of the board, especially the head of the Convention, sharp. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, predesigned the risk that present political opposition will take the council hostage and will choke everything into question. Well, a lot of people think of me. I guess that's happening here. Gunnlaugsson Does this mean that everyone will act like him and think as he did during his last term and will engage in an organized subversive and destructive work that would result in opposition to government? This comment is far more strange, considering that last of our councils showed their strength in making a very serious effort to advance important issues, and the government's main contribution was to the adjustment and refinement of many political projects so that they could achieve their purpose and be subsidized. The assembly was active, and there was a large harvest. So little evidence will be drawn from recent experience in speaking in this way. I think one of our associates hit the nail when he said it was important to pause. paritaprevir In the days that followed, Gunnlaugsson Gunuga's career was not too busy. Maybe we should what. A senator just taking a vacation for a few weeks. [[The president calls.]] He could then proclaim his return in Icelandic politics for the third time. As we know, all things are already three.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u11	A respectable president. Foreign affairs have been very busy in the community for quite some time, and they will become more and more up - to - date because it is a case that requires more attention. As famously noted after yesterday's events, not everyone agree on how to handle matters in that legal group. But there is one thing that we should all agree on, no matter what numbers we want to mention, no matter what our position we have on how the rules should be, and how easy it is to come to the country on any basis, and that is that we must welcome the people who come here, whether there are more than we want or not. In that case, it is well said that visitors are now expected to be about 1.7 million in Iceland this year the last time I knew. We can't simply close the border. People can and will continue to be able to come here and they'll apply for asylum and they'll be waiting for conclusions and they'll have some sort of cost. They will follow that decision. Whatever their decision may be, we must have infrastructure in order to receive people in a way that makes it easier for them to participate in Icelandic society because they all want to. They want the people who come here. They want the people who are here. No matter what we think of part of the people coming here, all of us should be able to cooperate. It is inevitable that this group of paintings stirs up a very difficult conversation that is often impenetrable and cruel. But there are things we should all agree on. I hope we can continue to cooperate, because whatever we do, let's do it well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u12	President. I heard the leader of the Independence Party, chief. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, stated on the radio this morning that he was opposed to the enforcing constitution, as he put it, despite the fact that a little more than 60% of those taking sides on the question of whether they wanted a new constitution to be based on legal proposals has answered yes in October 2012. But he had nothing to do with it; he also declared earlier in summer that he was opposed to system changes. And what system changes does he object to? He is opposed to the fact that the resources of the resource stopped running into the pockets of counterfeiters. He objects that the resource of the electricity has stopped running in the pocket of aluminium companies, he is opposed to changing the agricultural system that allows the Lactates to become pigs in my manufacturers, a system that enables the director of the Galaboss to say that consumers should pay fines that are laid on the company. In the medical system, serious health problems result from serious financial worries. Roads down in the transport system, the election system is so that those living north of the Haven world march have more than twice the right to vote with those living south of them. And the head of the Independence Party claims to oppose system changes. He spends special interest in the developers, and they pay for the campaign fees, he defends the tax favors of the aluminium companies, maybe even paying them for the campaign fund, and I haven't heard him criticize the Batsalamist who's going to have the consumers pay the fines laid on the company - because he's against the system changes. And now the government presents proposals for housing. What's the point? the prime minister says. Yes, it is to protect the nation, the people, from inflation. [[The president calls.]] Why does the government not focus on measures to prevent inflation? This is because the government groups oppose system changes and put patches on a hungry wound.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u13	A respectable president. You got it, chief. Secretary of education. Government officials rise here one after another and will make the few remaining days of Congress and try to convince us that government witnessing is successful and good and has led to great success. However, these same members of the council have decided to end their own terms. This is not because the work of government has been so successful and successful, but on the contrary, because their message is completely lost, the cooperation is involved, and we see no results of the government work, and we haven't done for a long time. That is why they have decided to end the terms. On the other hand, they have taken some time to drift into this corner and not trust in elections until October 29th. You must ask yesterday for a press conference by the chairman of the Independence Party and the Prime Minister of the Agency whether the government is serious about what was presented there is something that there was a reason to wait, or is a reason to postpone the election. Each person sees that measures to provide limited housing ten years in advance are not issues that need to be delayed by elections. I therefore agree with the chairman of a budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who rightly pointed to the weekend that there is no position, a dignified president, to interrupt a council and to go to the election and to get a more effective administrative part in the country that can be successful. It has been months since that this government has stopped making any case in the council, and there are no cases to the program of this council that must not wait and cancel the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u14	Mr. President. It is only hoped that many will ask themselves, " When is it our turn? ' The government now ruling, which has progressively weakened the government's income institutions in behalf of more people, does not see the need for a new financial programme for five years, to expect a more efficient rise in older citizens or desperate individuals despite the promise to correct the terms. Now the social and housing minister will come forward with a bill in which she intends to raise the roof and improve the position of young people who are having children of the good, but it seems to be the most important thing. Right before the election, they're young people, e.g. In the form of a birth - free orbsfsfs, although an unfunded fund, there is no money in it, and it is not expected to increase the amount of insurance paid to meet it. Despair and senior citizens are still waiting. It's a huge group, certainly, but he's still waiting. He's not expected. So it is only hoped that the chairman of the Organization will keep silent and draw such attention and ask: "When is it time for us to be reasonable? 190 ys. K. That's what a lot of people, too many, have to survive. Thus, the trust in an independent government is no stronger than that. They do not respond to any less and fail to meet their needs, even though they said that they would do so in consultation with those who had that great promise. A respectable president. I can't believe that those who agreed to the government budget--it made social and housing minister although she's now performing some bills that she must have seen how she's going to finance, this is the people she's waiting for, even though she's supposed to get it in the first few days she came to the government. [[The president calls.]] But it is not time to reduce growth because there is something in the economy, and it is not yet time for the lowest paying of the people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u15	A respectable president. During the last two days, people have been offered an amazingly amazing language at the council halls. It is said that in its three years of work, the government has done nothing. The fact is, the government has changed the status of the nation's population and changed the position of its homes. V.E.G. The secretary of finance yesterday pointed out that this year's pursuit of financial growth is going to be greater than the total accumulation of the left government's tail from 2009 to 2013. Likely, there will be more leftovers this year than the total collection of the left government. The government's five - year plan accounts for a 10% absolute expansion of the state's primary expenditures. Is that a small thing? No, that is much, especially when considering what has already been done during the election season. And what is it? They've gone to a penitentiary that's changed the homes' status completely. The benefits of households have led to greater financial gain and less misseparation. Economic growth is one of the greatest known in the Western world, the annual prices are less than 1%, and some 6,000 new jobs were created last year. Unemployable employment is at the minimum, and there has been a large increase in donations for health care. This government had the courage needed to handle the demands. Their end point will be due today or in the days following when the last bill of action will be seen. It is popular to tell the point that governments are always setting priorities for the rich. It is far from true, income tax is lowered, and the middle level of income tax falls at the end of the year. The midpoint will take place at about 400,000 times. Now it drops out and the lowest level has been dropped. All of them under 800,000. has received a significant reduction in income tax from this government. [[The president calls.]] These are the people the left government raised taxes on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u16	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, the highest was introduced. A government of two prime bills to legalize the purchase of a first apartment, where there is a true regard for young people's real estate purchases, and then a bill to legalize a change in the terms of growth and insurance. We look at changes in loans, especially those of the 40 - year - old Icelanders, who have the privilege of producing interest and a very high total cost in view of the 40 - year period. While the government's response was not natural, it certainly pointed out that this is not a decomposition, so it is much more important that we change the loans we have been given. I think most people will admit that the overall cost is high that people have to pay all the time they spend 40 years in this Iceland, which I think most people will admit to being difficult to deal with, especially when the economy swings, and then we are facing the challenge of achieving steps in changing this arrangement. That's what they're doing here. That is why it can truly be called a phase victory, the Supreme One. President. This is by nature a national agreement. There is indeed the urge to take a loan that does not go unnoticed, and there is a tax - and - tax - force for young people. This is a search for ways to change the arrangement that has been established. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u17	A respectable president. This will be a bill for student loans and scholarships. The bill is prepared by the Ministry of Education and Culture, and its objective is first to respond to changes in Icelandic education, especially the university system, which have been made since the current financial law, which is no. 21/1192 were set. As well as well known, the university environment has taken complete turns, especially when considering the number of students at university and the offer of study that exists in relation to what was given these laws or adjusted last time. Second, the goal is to respond to comments published in Kingdom Review reports in recent years. Third, to meet the criticism of students' organizations, other stakeholders, and State Accounting in terms of the discrepancies that make the scholarship to students in the form of wax pay and decoding, as well as the making the strength more visible and less apparent. Fourth, risk analysis has to be handled by the fund and the continuing trend, but by the same arrangement, the funds will increasingly need to be increased. Of course, this must be done in a very special way, and the student movement has expressed concern in this regard, as it would be impossible to handle the loan fund's affairs with a similar problem as we know it. On an apartment loan fund. Fifth, to improve the student's career, and at the same time increase the growth in the use of government funds. sixth, to provide Bible study aids closer to those in other parts of the North. For this reason, I would especially like to say that looking at countries in other parts of the North countries does not have one integrated Norse Study loan system. Each member of the Norwegian states has a special educational system with its special characteristics, yet there are key factors in the Norwegian learning loan systems, including it is a loan system and, on the other hand, a strengthening system as well as a reimbursement of the student loans, i.e. Paybacks are independent of income. But I'd like to warn you that there is some kind of Norwegian model. It's not. But there are traits. We have this bill to bring us closer to the arrangement we know in other parts of the North. It is a complete review of the law No. 21/1992 of Icelandic students' loan Fund, with subsequent adjustments. Obviously, the original plans for the implementation of the law, estimated on August 1 this year, do not go along, and these committees need to take their stand for validation in order to be successful. A respectable president. Now, I'm going to go to the main topic of the bill. It can therefore be divided into 11 things. First, the study aid that will be provided will be in the form of bone strength and potential loans in favour of the benefits of the loans offered in Iceland. The bone will be 65,000 bucks. In a month, a student will meet the requirements of the law. The scholarship will be given for 45 months, corresponding to five standard school years, so the total concentration can be 2,925,000. For a full course of study. Second, the credit loan straddles from the estimated 92% to 100% in the nine months of the year. Here we are, in fact, decades of fighting the student's battle case on the matter of borrowing for the full amount of living. This is an enormous interest because if we agree that the stratosphere has meaning and that is what it takes to pursue a study, then it can be obvious that by choosing to lend for less money than the end of the stipulation, students are being sent a message that either they have to own this money in the hand, from their parents or themselves, or by the school to make sure that they have a full contribution. By this step, students would be achieving tremendous success in a conflict of interest that has long been fought for. Third, study aid will be provided for a maximum of 420 ECTS units, or for seven years independently of study. I'll reiterate it here, regardless of the course of study. The study steps have been opened, when students make good use of their learning opportunities, and when they abandon the old system. I think that's a lot of baloney. Of course it's a debate whether it's right to go to 420 ECTS units, but then I refer to the arrangement and the number of units we know in the Norwegian nations, and I encourage them. Councilmen to relate this to that arrangement. Fourth, study aid will be limited to 50 years of age and will not be provided after 60 years of age. Once again, though, this is the arrangement we know among the northern nations in different ways. It is known that the arrangement is to start with a set age limit, as we actually suggest, or that the entire loan is always paid up to 67 years of age or does not lend on a certain age limit. There are various ways to do this, but we set out here that study aid will be limited to 50 years of age and then forced into the early 50's. Fifth, the bill stipulates a peak of 15 million students. At a time, but I'll draw attention to the fact that this is when we're looking for the total study aid to be 17,925,000 k. In fact, it is proper to note that the vast majority of students, far more than 90%, are well within their boundaries. sixth, it is strongly recommended that the interest of student loans per school year be 2.5% plus stress. I would like to call to the attention of the United States because this growth loss is determined, it is lower than the current cost of government funding and government funds. Because this number is selected, the loans continue to be of some strength, but obviously much less than when the interest level was 1%. I've noticed that in reviews, including. From the student organisations, the question is, Should this not be altered? And instead of being attached to 2.5% with 0.5% stress, it would be like a roof, for if the level of interest is dropped and the State's funding goes still low, it is likely that the fund and students will enjoy it. I would support such a change. Remuneration periods are expected to be 40 years, but all loans are paid up to a 67 - year - old student. Payday will be monthly. This means, a respectable president, is that it is much more transparent and predestination in these loans. But, surely, the arrangement we've had previously taken charge of the loans is disappearing, i.e. The concentration is contained in the revenue connection. I realize that it is political and natural to be able to deal with it, but I believe it is a more reasonable arrangement, and I will come back to what it has to do with this approach. A respectable president. seventh, you will be able to reimburse your student loans on account of events that cause temporary financial problems for one year and up to a maximum of three years combined. The reason for such a course to be taken in the form of a trust fund, i.e. Risk assessment of him. If such a law is not, it means that the risks of the fund are increasing. I'd like to mention that I'm expecting that this too will be successful, but I'd like to point out that here, however, it is assumed that temporary releases can be made to a maximum of three years. In view of the employment situation, etc. You might think this would be enough, but it's perfectly natural for us to discuss this very specifically, for surely I realize that events may arise that could make the fund need to react. I mention in my introduction that I don't find it unusual for the committee to discuss specifically whether there would be more leeway. eighth, it is a requirement for study aid that the loan fund has not previously had to be copied from the individual. In addition, remuneration of student loans is expected to start one year after two years of study, and in this case, I refer again to the arrangement we know in other countries, when the loans will begin. I think, in comparison with the arrangement presented here, to what is in other parts of the North countries, that this is a good arrangement. I also believe that the loan fund had to be copied by an individual normally to take some action on the basis of the fund as a result of raising loans. The ninth stipulation is required for those 23 years of age to become auxiliary candidates. In the past, loans for this type of study have been borrowed, but they have not been restored. It has been pointed out that we need to react, and that is done on this bill. It is true that there is a degree of discrepancy between students of 16 years, book studies, and those involved in this law. I believe it is justified, there is a difference that can be protected, so for those 23 years of age and older who are looking for this degree of testing, we give them special support over those starting school at 16 years of age and thus finishing school in the traditional high school system. A tenth: The right of the Icelandic and foreign citizens to help with the study is further defined. In particular, citizens of the EEA who are employed or independent in this country, along with the right of their candidates for the study. Then there are new recommendations that students who have a permit as refugees or as residents in this country have the right to study to meet the criteria of the bill. I believe that this should be a very good thing to do, a respectable president. In 11th, the bill provides temporary permission for loans from senior student loans to obtain additional updates from the student's head loan for the payment of an extra payment. This is for every extra payment that will cost a hundred thousand dollars. will be given 10,000K. additional post-reservation. A respectable president. This summer a lot of discussions were made about this bill. I had a meeting with the university presidents some time ago, in the summer months, where it was discussed. In view of the comments previously observed that occurred at my meeting with the headmasters, I would like to allow myself to suggest to the committee that the change of the standard of education can be considered at the time when a student loan can be given to those who are in doctor's study, although it will be specifically directed to those in such studies, that is not a general authority, but, since the course of the doctor's study is possible to include the same classes on loans as it has been before. I believe that the criticism presented was justified, especially in view of the fact that there are several percentages, though not high numbers, which are in the country's PhD and are on student loans. This is, in fact, a lot of smaller things, much more of those who are in PhD study are on scholarships of various kinds that may come from various sources. I would especially like to mention that this government has more than doubled the development of the research fund. Hv. During the summer of 2013, members of the Parliament remember discussions about the research fund and the anxieties they felt about the position of the fund, but especially was a loud debate of those who were in PhD, and they pointed out how important the funds were for such students and that they were in such studies, that the funds were strong and could be financed. A doctor's study of their funds. By double the contribution we have made to that fund, we have taken very big steps. But it is quite accurate that has been pointed out by university drivers to the arrangement, such as. Since you are known elsewhere in the states of the North, some of the aside funds are intended for this study that we do not have here, at least not to the same extent, and are then called upon to revise the law of the original bill. So I redirect it to the Committee, and I repeat that it is wise to change to the former. A respectable president. The Ministry of Education and Culture called and offered reviews about this bill this summer, and some people have responded very well to it and reported it. In fact, it is proper to note that the bill was made called after the ideas and comments from stakeholders on how the student loan system wanted to make a living. It was called for in writing and then worked in the Committee on the basis of it. I'd especially like to draw attention to what. Congress officials at the school board of the University of Iceland have worked. The student council produced a 180 - page report and analysis on the bill, its consequences, and how it will affect students. Without any means of minimizing the importance of other comments, I cannot help but mention that it is obvious from the reference that it has been buried deep into the bill. There are extensive calculations from students on the effects on different student groups, different revenue groups, etc. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to study very carefully the conclusions presented at the University of Iceland. Similarly, I call attention to information from the student council of HR and HA. I'm not trying to minimize the implications of other reports that have been made, but I'd like to point out that there's an enormous calculation of the SHI, where the effects of this bill have been calculated, I want to mean. As I would like to mention and point out a fine article published by the chairman of the School Board of Students HI today. I, by permission of a respectable president, take it down here in the fine article that says: During the past few weeks, some have expressed concern about billing on student loans and scholarships. At times, I have come to realize that one of the principal interests of students is made a political fight at the General and that it applies to the new student loan bill. No, it's not perfect, and I myself would like to see some changes, but in the foundation it involves a big step for the college students in Iceland. I'm going to continue to quote in the fine article of the chairman of the Board of Students, which says, by permission of a respectable president: You may not be able to create a perfect loan system, but you can create a better loan system. The system changes that have been announced will clearly depend on that requirement, but it can always be improved. I'd like to make it my final statement, a respectable president, that there are some of the comments and changes indicated by the student council in their analysis. I hope they're well looked at by the committee. I say for my part that I'm perfectly and completely prepared to have a conversation, including... based on the comments that have been made there. Although I don't agree with all of them, there are a number of things that I believe can be viewed for progress and that this discussion will be exciting. Of course, we do the same for other comments that we have received, and we need to make good use of them. I believe this is such a change in the Icelandic loan fund that it will be a success of students and Icelandic people. We don't need to make these changes to help with the university education in Iceland. I believe if this bill is legal, we will take a big step in the right direction. A respectable president. I expect the case to be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Education minister of the past and this major step is to begin giving scholarships to relatively direct studies. However, I would like to ask the highest. Minister if they have gone to the expense assessment of the potential for foreign citizens from EEA countries to come to the country, take the scholarship, and work for a week. For example, in Denmark, where there is a similar preimbursement, funding for foreign citizens of the EEA has increased by 43% since the fall of the Court of Justice in 2013 in the European Court. Now, I want to know, and I don't see anything on the expense assessment that was considered specific: Don't you need to make a new cost estimate? Am I missing anything? I'd like to know how the state funds are going to feed on these costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u19	A respectable president. You're right. Regarding the dance system, a senator notes that there are quite a few foreign students, and so much of the program is available in English. This arrangement has been especially discussed with the Danish minister and with them what they intend to do in this regard. The situation is not general here, the main part of the study available in the university system is Icelandic, and I think that it is an arm for foreign students to come here to study a variety of studies and to study at a loss in Icelandic environment. Of course, if this is about to become a major problem, we need to take action, but I don't think this calls for a reexamination of cost estimates.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u20	A respectable president. I just have to say, I think it's really strange that I didn't take into account that it was possible for a government fund to produce a paid scholarship, especially since we saw this trend happen very quickly in Denmark. Since there are 1,500 students in Denmark from year to year, I think this is something that needs to be taken seriously. There are more subjects who are taught in English than the Icelandic language for foreign students at the University of Iceland, including much that is going on on on a geological track in the University of Iceland and more in that manner, medieval literature to name something. This is all something that is taught in English too, so I don't think it's true, I think it's something that really needs to be considered for such an extensive change, whether this premeditated strength will actually be an expense for a fortune fund because a foreign citizen could possibly come to this country and get the strength, right? In this regard, costs simply need to be made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u21	A respectable president. There was quite a misunderstanding. A senator who said that it was premeditated paid a scholarship. This is not the case. Strengthens are paid after learning failures have been achieved. I'm just gonna let myself say here that I'm not concerned that there are so many people in geology and medieval science that it will lead to some fantastic problem for the student loan system and the state fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u22	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to the criticism that has been heard by this bill, by removing income connections from student loans, except that interest rates are increased from 1% to 2.5% in the loan section, i.e. Not the strength, but the credit section, what's the best effect. Minister that this is in the selection of those who need to make use of the loans of this system in view of the fact that payments have been linked to them and the purpose of being able to study by interest rather than by possible earnings? Has the highest. Ministers don't worry that high school students, e.g. to go to jobs that do not necessarily make a lot of money, we can mention the studies and studies of any kind, the highest. Don't Ministers worry that the way to remove the income link actually affects learning selection and will make it more uniform with unpredictable results for Icelandic society?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u23	A respectable president. I challenge it. A senator to study the analysis and the calculations published by the University of Iceland in this discussion. That's where it's gonna be. A senator can look for answers about different study groups and different tasks and how they come out of this system. Of course, the fact is that all students with a loan of under 7.5 million who are students will present at the end of this new system that is already in the past. What groups of people should bring out just below the weight of payment? Indeed, there are a lot of the groups that are often in the discussion, groups that are not busier, people who date, e.g. The average pay of BHM, which will be more successful in paying payment on student loans. When people take a look at the numbers, and once again, I refer to what is so accessible, both in the analysis and in the bill, but especially--I'm sure that many people are convinced that nothing is in terms of what comes out of the Ministry of Education or the loans, something like that, and then it's nice to see what the students themselves say, how they've calculated it. [[The president calls.]] There you see why. A senator's answer to this question is: No, there is no reason to worry about it. A senator describes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u24	Mr. President. It would have been good at it. Minister would have had such an analysis follow the bill he's been working on, but I would also like to ask the highest degree. Minister, for earlier he said that he was open to a change in doctor's study. Of course, the intention of crowding out the potential of doctors has also been a source of great criticism. Wants the highest. The minister explains what changes he is talking about in view of the fact that the distribution rate given by the donor strengthens for doctorectomy is very different. I saw, for example. The figures for a mental science of the past year, where 17% of projects that were assessed as qualified for doctors, which say qualified students who are considered qualified for a doctor's study, were given the strength of 17%. So it's the highest. Ministers to suggest that there will be a temporary change in the possibility of a doctor's study, or there is a plan for a doctor's study to be paid which appears to have been the basic premise of the bill, that it must be agreed to assume that it would be rewarded? The highest. A minister explained this to us?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u25	A respectable president. What I meant, I directed it to why. A committee is assuming that this is expected, and it is assumed, that the number of years the loans are given will be cut short for a year. It has been suggested, then, that it can be especially difficult for those who are in the doctor's study. I believe that there is reason to accept this criticism and therefore direct it to the Committee that it will take a friendly look at this group, i.e. If you are a student at a doctor's school, you will have the same possibility of learning loans from the current system. That's really what they put up with. Then there is a great subject for us in the future - how we should do so in a practical way. I believe that from then on we should look forward to building up the colleges a special fund to finance the Ph.D. The majority of those who pursue a doctor's course are on some kind of pay, sponsoring a large part of it. There's a lot less of the ones here in PhD who's only on student loans. These numbers are public, and they can be looked up. So I believe, because there is a group there, that after the original set, they should not follow but keep the existing arrangement and also consider these factors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u26	A respectable president. It sounds good to look at an arrangement in other parts of the North countries for direct strength and then cost - price loans. On the other hand, when you look at the real environment in Iceland, you must ask the highest one. A economist, a economist, would he believe that the high-growing environment in Iceland does this over a head? As we examine the growth of Swedish student loans, they are 0.6% today. It is the overall growth that Swedish students have to repay. We've got a 10-year-old historic inflation of 5.12%. For the past ten years, if this arrangement had been in force, there would be an increase of 8.12%. The student's financial height would have doubled on this Icelandic interest load. If the minister is aware that at this elevated level of physical growth, we can introduce a model that is created for countries where there is much lower interest needed than there is now?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u27	A respectable president. This is a good comment and a significant point of view, but the answer to it is this: You cannot watch the interest level on your own and isolated, but you must watch the pay level, the pay development rate, and the overall pay ratios of the payments. It's the number that matters, and I know why. A senator knows that if he compares, for example. pay development in Iceland during the last four, five years, and pay development in Scandinavia is quite significant. That is why it is the question of the provisional income and the proportion of the cities of the provisional items. And, yes, I think it's wise to do this, this is what students have been calling for, this is what we've always called for. By attaching this to 2.5% and placing the roof there, and I have pointed out, in fact, that it may be the course of wisdom to keep it as a roof, that if the government's credit costs go lower, I have to say that these are the most practical loans available and I think that it is absolutely justified to go off with this arrangement in view of what I said before, which turns towards a relationship between interest level and pay development.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u28	A respectable president. I don't think commercial power in Iceland is higher than it happens to form in Sweden or at least Not so much that people depend on what seems to be over 13 times higher than on the Swedish student loans. Of course, today there are exceptionally low interest rates, but it may have been up to 2% in general. Even so, it may have been five times higher than it is, so you must ask: Will the minister lend a favor to putting some kind of therapy into the reimbursement so that people who do not achieve an increase in the potential for education, people who are educated, e.g. to care for or to work in the education system at the highest level. A minister, that he does not fully receive this tremendous weight of interest but will be taken into account in paying back a small amount of money? Does the minister believe that there is something that the council can consider making an improvement in the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u29	A respectable president. One is the debate over growth, but it has to be associated with the strength and then considered whether the remunerations, i.e. Remuneration will be higher or lower after a new system begins. 85% of students will be in a position to reduce their reimbursement. It's all right. A senator says that high interest rates are not desirable. Yet, as mentioned, the fliers are now negative in Sweden. I'm sure those in charge of this situation are deeply concerned about that position. It's not good to be in that position. A respectable president. What matters is the overall result. Not only do we watch the growth rate alone but we see its relationship with the scholarship, and it turns out that a large majority of students will be in the position of paying less than per month of their student loans. That's what matters, that's the fact, but not the only fact of growthprofen. You have to take this into context.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u30	A respectable president. I and I think all of us in the United States share their interest with the Minister to establish a learning system, and we've moved on to that proposal here in the past. On the other hand, my concern is that when you look at the case from the minister's case, it makes it appear that the current learning loan system and the financial resources involved are being used to find ways to finance scholarships by making those who have to charge student loans at that cost. We in the United States have never felt that it would be necessary to raise interest in those who are paying student loans to cover the costs of funding to the others. On the contrary, the bill on the part of the Minister shows that the benefits of funding are increasing production and better progress in the system, which the government obviously profites from. Is it not reasonable that the government amasses the strength completely, and then we make changes in the student loan system and that the funds so far have been spent on it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u31	A respectable president. I think it's overhistoric that it's only being made that way that those who need student loans to keep a city for everyone else. This is not an accurate description of what is involved. True, a certain group of students, one who takes the highest loans, and some very large loans, those who go, for example. in a very expensive high school course, will have to pay more back, that's exactly right. But, for example, Just an ordinary student learning in Scandinavia or Iceland will be better off. It cannot be said that if 85% of the students are to carry a lower load of payment, these laws are being laid as strong as water. A senator is talking about. And, of course, as the bill shows, the government funds will be paid for this, and there will be additional. Government funds will put more money into the student loan system. There is, in fact, a significant increase from what used to be. I think now is a historic opportunity, and I hope we do what we do. A senator can work out a solution to these matters, handle this matter from here on, because that's when we've fulfilled the old dream of many people; that there's going to be a sponsor in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u32	A respectable president. I share the Minister's interest in finding a reasonable solution in this matter. I think it's our job at the council. It can, however, not include adding spells to those who have had to borrow so far in order to give strength to those who have missed out on loans until now because they have not needed them to make progress. They are used to strengthen the system's production. I totally understand that goal, and I share it with a minister, but it's only natural that the state pays for that promotion. Then let us review some factors that, of course, are important in the system, and in recent years and decades, we have many criticisms, such as how they encourage debt, such as what is rightly presented in the bill, that it results in a very variable decline in strength and that those who have already taken expensive and long years of schooling can actually continue in such a course in the assurance that they will not pay for it. The fundamental thing I feel is that there will be a solid agreement that the State will pay to the full the scholarship.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u33	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. A senator sees that we can successfully resolve this matter. It's never gonna be like that we're all going to agree on everything, but I think it's possible to get a solid solid solidarity on the main points. I'd like to point here because of these words. A senator, in a fine article published by the chairman of the Board of Students today, by permission of a respectable president: The above table shows the borrowing need of single unwed students who do not live in parents'homes is the highest standard of living. However, calculation shows that all groups will eventually have to pay less than that, based on their being helped and borrowing 100% of the stratosphere. Hv. A senator mentioned that we do not want to promote unnecessary debt, etc. Based on the 100% extrapolation criteria, as calculated here, this is better off for the group. Should we not be able to get along with one another just about a system change that leads to this? I believe the Council can do that, and we'll try.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u34	A respectable president. The person here shares the view that it was long time to bring the student loan system to a better end. But the bill we have here is not what you would want to see on the system we have on student loans and scholarships. The bill covers the values so far that there have been the basis of an Icelandic educational policy for education and freedom for education. I would like to start by reviewing that ever since formal schools were being run in Iceland, there has been a population of sort of social agreement on the value of education and the role of institutions of education. President Jón Sigurðsson viewed the establishment of a national school as an important part of the struggle for sovereignty. Clearly, that fight is still ongoing, although in other ways than in the past. The authorship of the institutions of education has long been the power, since Icelanders have believed in education as a means of living. We educated our nation from the roughs to the present, from poverty to abundance, as is education, knowledge, and the most successful weapons in every nation's struggle for survival, as is the individual. As a result, we have been proud to be a educated people, read and write, able to acquire all the knowledge that the highest schools have ever had to offer abroad and abroad. We've been proud that in Iceland education was something that would be meant for everyone. This social treaty that I would like to call has also included the strict request for freedom for education by Icelanders. This involves the approach to the population that aims to reduce the separation of classes such as class distinctions and, instead, to increase the availability of all, regardless of the economy, gender, habitat, etc. Study skills, motivations, and wants to be the dominant aspects of learning options, not economic or social status. On the basis of that ideologies, the high school program was, for example, high school. Larger groups were opened when the multilanguage system was established, and the policy was set on making the most of it possible to take in knowledge on the basis of motivation and learning. Education is also meant to be human rights. On that basis, as early as 1928, students received loans from a loan fund at the University of Iceland. When the first law was given in 1952 for student loans, it was stated that the new funds should provide student loans to a greater degree than before, so that students could make contributions but also be as good as qualified students. That's where the tone was played regarding the social role of the academic loan fund, i.e. making sure students make progress and take into account the potential of payment. Then let's take a look at this bill that's being discussed, because I feel as if I said at the beginning of my talk that this is the basis for education for everyone and education freedom. One of the most clear examples of this is the change in the bill not to lend on a doctor's test. Now it's got the highest. In his speech, a minister says that he is eager to see that the council alters these requirements and restores them to its present condition. It is in itself a pleasure to have seen about it, for the human potential to gain knowledge and to take full advantage of it would have been out of the board if this change had taken place. Who is really improved by reducing the potential for the highest education and the loss of freedom that has so far been the hallmark of Icelandic education? I hope at least The change will be made if the bill goes through, the General agrees with me, and the Minister to disappear from the uncooperative plan to stop strengthening doctors for study. In fact, I feel that the programs that appear on the bill, even though men have seen it, give evidence that there are a number of selected educational governments, this obsession to restrict the possibility of adults for study, e.g. by putting 25 years of age and older out of the high school system and now published in print to cancel a doctors' loan, but also to limit school loan time at 56 years of age and total student loans to 15 million. All of this is to the same well that is being closed, reserved for a narrowly tailored group to which right men feel should be subjected to some form of prostatism. Cuts, trials, separations, and closures Sadly, these are the landmarks of the theory. It's a shame to see it. I want, for example. Consider women with children who often stop studying until children are out of the way. People in the country or people who for various reasons have not had the opportunity to pursue conventional schooling are examples of groups that are very damaging to the changes being made in the bill. I ask: Is there anyone better by shutting people up and closing people in situations they want to get out of? Is society any better? Of course not! I'll admit it, as I said at the beginning of my case, that the current school loan system is about a lot of flaws. There was, indeed, a need to make changes. One of the positive things I'd like to mention in this bill is the change to repay payment by borrowing. What a change that was! It is also a long time to pick up a general scholarship, as the United States has already suggested. But then, making sure that what is given with one hand is not snatched out of the person's hands and then taken away with the other hand. It now appears that the growth rate will be counterweight to the scholarship and that other lenders will thus pay for the donors, as they were saying in the previous comments. Of course, there is nothing fair about the financial support of those who most need loans. Let us consider, then, only the role of student loans. In the bill, it is a step for all students who fall under the definition that they have the right to be helped by a student who has the value of 65,000. every month for up to 45 months, less than 3 billion. K. However, the need for such strength is not determined by the fact that students need it. 65,000. During a month, students living in their parents'homes who have free food and shelter can use money as pocketmakers, but the circumstances of such students differ from those of those who come from abroad or those of children who live in rented homes and support a family. Thus there will be dissension between groups of society. This could be dramatic and is likely to contribute to discrimination. There are apparently more people than me who are concerned about students from the country. I'd like to testify, a respected president, in the review of the Union's Association in Northern West, who have pointed out that nowhere in the bill nor in the law data is a definition of what is involved in an opportunity for study, however, in terms of the economics of the day. It seems best to refer to students whose situation is that they have the same kind of help, i.e. All students in parents'homes can receive similar assistance, or all students in rented homes can receive similar assistance. What is broken here, however, is the fact that a section of students in the capital area and, for example, part of the study site. In Akureyri, where there is also a university, it may be possible to get through a school without taking a student loan, e.g. Those who live in parents'homes, but it would never work for students outside those areas where the possibility of getting out of school is clearly dependent on the economy. It is clear, then, that students from the country will owe more money at the end of the study than students from the capital area. Of course, this will affect your choice of study. This affects the way people choose to live, both parents and young students. You can, for example. Note that the number of inhabitants of the northern western West aged 0 in the past 20 years has decreased by nearly 1,700 people, while students have grown dramatically. It is not likely that this difference in personal study regardless of the economy will clear up some of these people and clearly show that there will be an even greater degree of discrimination with the changes that this bill foretells. The bill then claims that the Icelandic student loan system is closer to what is known in the states of the North. If the facts are taken into account in connection with this, that claim cannot stand. It is not in the spirit of the Norwegian model that all students receive the same strength whether they need it or not. Then, if the bill is approved, the payment rate of student loans will be very heavy. Paybacks from all student loans over 5 million. K. will gain weight after a change. It has been observed that most of today's student loans are close to 5 billion. K. Instead of over 11,000 bucks. The monthly payment on such loans would be the payment load of 17,900 dollars. in months and increases with borrowing as high as 53,700 bucks. 15 million a month ago. K. A loan. According to the bill, the loans immediately begin to collect interest and prices from the first day, not when payments start at the present time. This, of course, has an effect on swallowing. Instead of the price insurance with 1% interest rates, a loan that is guaranteed by 3% interest in the current climate is still a heavier burden, as discussed earlier. The length of the study is shortened. Payback time is a statue. They're raised, and they're decontaminated. In other words, the fund is being moved away from the social function that has been the basic theme of its operation from an institution. It is being brought closer to some kind of public loan agency. We don't need any more public credit agencies. We need human loans that take into account the circumstances in life of students. We need an equation device. Education should be human rights. It is the key to the welfare of a nation. The nations that have reached the longest in prosperity and welfare have spent most of their money on education, research, and science. The requirement for study freedom is irreverent. It is as irreverent as the requirement for employment freedom and freedom of action and expression. Sadly, this bill, a respectable president, does not respond to that requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u35	A respectable president. Just a few things, first of all, in order to correct that misunderstanding, never came to stop supporting and strengthening and lending to the doctor's school. There was only the question of, for example, that. Danes are conducting six years of Bible study, and Swedes too. We recommended that we have seven years, but it has been suggested that because of the fact that a certain part of our doctors is in the school loan system, although their chief majority are strengthening, this could be a disaster for them. There is no way that people are shutting down about getting a scholarship or a doctor's degree. It was supposed to be shorter for a year, and I suggest that it not be done. Then I'd like to talk about it. One senator said that study aid is up to a maximum of 15 million; that's not true; it will be 18 million, i.e. Fifteen million borrowed, and then less than 3 million strong. Then, the fact is that if you are considering borrowing under 7.5 million, while 85% of the students are under it, the group is arranged for a lower pay load. But what has been pointed out to you, including, is true. of the head of the students, that when they see the intervening of other systems, e.g. Children's reforms and contracts, compared to the student loans, will make the groups better. I referred to my background talk in an article conducted by the chairman of the Board of Students, and I shall again quote it, but the table shown in the Chairman's article, by permission of a respectable president, to lend the interest of single students who do not live in parenthouses, is the highest relative to the forward point. However, calculation shows that all groups will eventually have to pay less than that, based on their being helped and borrowing 100% of the stratosphere. That's what matters, that's what they're looking for, and there's a little bit of a fit for themselves. A senator said before, there was a lot of roughness here. If the interaction of these factors is in the way described here, should we not take it on a more objective topic of discussion and see if we cannot just get a new opportunity and put everyone in a better position than before? I believe it's possible, it's an opportunity here. [[The president calls.]] I refuse that there is some kind of abnormal system that is different from what we know around us. On the contrary, I think we're moving closer to what we know in the North.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u36	A respectable president. As for my Ph.D., I'm glad the Minister saw it and felt that it is not right to restrict the possibility of doctors to student to student loans while they are in their school. That's the basic thing. The social arrangement, that doctors can be both sponsors and loans, is successful, but it is from time to time that doctors can improve their ability to refer to the implementation of research funds and interests solely or almost exclusively and to reduce their ability to take the time they need to be examined by doctors. With regard to the comparison of the North countries, what is implied in the bill is that this is being presented to the Icelandic student loan system that what is known in the North countries cannot be understood. In Norway students in university are offered a loan to study, and after study they can apply for up to 40% of the loan to be cut down and converted into strength. There are certain conditions for this. In Denmark a student's circumstances, depending on whether or not people live at home, may vary. The same can be said of Finland, where parental income and others can influence funding, and in Sweden, some of which depend on the circumstances of students. It is certainly not in the spirit of the Norwegian model that all students receive the same strength, whether they need it or not. Let's see what happens. Now it's up to you. The General and Education Committee of the Parliament. There will probably be many comments and tips, but I don't feel that the bill can go through the council at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u37	A respectable president. I disagree. A senator on one point, that some combination of loans and sponsors is a desirable system for the doctor's study. This is not the arrangement we know in general abroad. Most countries do not lend credit to the Ph.D. but are strengthened because this is a long study, and it's not a person who is in debt to his basic and master's study but is about to study strength. That's the rule. I think that's what we're supposed to be headed for, and what I said in my opening address is exactly this. That's where we're supposed to go, including... The decision we made on the research fund, to double it. I recall again the discussion that took place in the summer of 2013 on the importance of the research fund for my Ph.D. It came out clearly then, and I don't think there's anything different about it. Then I'd like to say one thing. One senator noted that Norway can be dejected to less than 40% from the loan, however, that some 85% of Iceland's students have a 7.5 million and less student loan. The strength is up to 3 billion. 2.950,000 a.m. If we just look at them ratios, that is the situation. A respectable president. There is no such thing as a single Norwegian student loan system, any more than a single non - Biblical welfare system. Each country has its own characteristics, e.g. We go far beyond the North countries in terms of student loans to school fees rather than in general. It has its historical roots that have, in fact, changed with regard to, e.g. an opportunity to attend the most expensive private school in the world that we are approaching in the North. Not to be overlooked, too, is the fact that the Icelandic students have a very good access to colleges in the North countries. Of course, there must be a special thought for us. In view of how the payload will develop, what effect it has - if we look at what will ease the load of the vast majority of students because of changes in system itself, and then because of involvement with other systems, or if you take a loan of 100% of the strategment target, all the groups will come out better. [[The president calls.]] As a result, I do not agree that there are several ways in which people may be able to attend.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u38	A respectable president. You're absolutely correct that there is not one system ruling all over the North countries, and that is why it is very misleading that the bill refers to a Norse Example model to support the beauty of the bill when the North American model is first not a single picture, but as if I traced my speech, it receives a comparison of the highest power. There's no way a minister could resist. It's just that way. I completely disagree with the highest degree. Ministers that the future vision should be that doctors will not be on student loans. It is fundamental to the learning freedom of people that, based on their learning ability and ability, anyone could pursue his highest education without being given the resources of research, research funds, or some systems of funding that would take into account other than the professional and knowledge requirements of the student. The minister doesn't have to teach me how the doctor's system works today. Well, I've done my own PhD in this reconstituted system, it turned out fine, but my lord an animal, if it hadn't been possible for student loans at that school, would never have ended. I'd like to say that the knowledge community is improved by any medical form being protected and able to withstand the university community in our small community. Then I think a little bit about this pex with my payback burden. If that is the basis for calculating that has been presented on the table in a public discussion on this matter, the remuneration rate is 5 billion. K. total exposure is considerably higher than is unchanged. Today, the payload is about 11,000. in a month no matter how high the entire study loan is, the pay rate will be much higher at 5 billion. K. The total loan can go to up to 53,700 bucks. per month. [[The president calls.]] These may be the wrong calculations they're offering here, but I'm just gonna have to ask for respect. I'm referring to numbers and data from this discussion from the Ministry that I believe.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u39	Madam President. There is an interesting discussion here on this matter. It can be said that this is the case with very different opinions. I don't think it's necessary to go deeper than that. In order to catch the ball that was removed from these calculations, I have to mention one thing, because here, a minister at the studio, he says they have a 180 - page review, it may not be very common to mention the 180 - page review, for I think it's rather interesting, I must say. Because the minister gives her a lot of evidence and clearly considers her interesting and speaks of the calculations that have been taken deep into him, of course, it should have been employed by the Ministry and followed by the bill. Then, as the minister noted, some of the information that seems so important would be summed up. Although I haven't been at a council for long, I've been on big committees, both the General and the Board of Education and the Board of Education. We haven't had so much debate on the subject of this kind. But it's gonna be an arm if we're going to read this review, I'm just going to say nothing else, along with everything else that lies ahead for the committee's work and expect it to be taken here and taken care of in a few days I'd like to say, as well as to get some other reviews when the bill is sent out for reviews. As mentioned here in the discussion, it seems to be very deep, changing views and not just on this payment rate or on the financial side, although it may seem to be one of the others, I think it will be a rather large arm. Four o'clock. it is said that students entitled to study aid must not have missed the loan or that they did not have to cancel loans to the individual. Then you can ask yourself, " Am I going against my study without regard for the economy at once? ' Many have experienced many things in the past but may be attending a study and may have had to write off some of them. So I think this is against the idea that studies can be practiced regardless of the economy. I also agree with what's been done here and trace it considerably, the thing about the loans being paid not only as the bill likes, or the Minister wants to say that there's a good deal to pay for it, but the subsidies, I mean that it's a concern that those who take the loan are actually paying off the money. I'm glad that this too was a discussion of the doctor's study to the Minister directly to the Committee to fix it. This was one of the very things that were severely criticized in the initial records. But that does not change its original thinking. There was an interesting exchange in foreign languages. Clearly, there is no diagnosis. A minister says that he does not worry that foreign students will be greatly strengthened to the land of the study available here. I think there's a reason why we should have an analysis of it. In 2007 there are 717 students, 2015 totals 1,105. You may need information about who might be among these students. concentrations. There are nearly 2,000 English students who have such support abroad. In 2015, many Icelandic students share some of the northern countries, 1,165 in Denmark, with a total of almost 2,000. In fact, I think it's a reason why foreign students who are enrolled here are assessed for the amount of money involved. A lot of these numbers have been discussed, i.e. that the loan can turn out to be 15 million and the amount is 3 million. Here are reviews, but only three that we can see online, pointing out differences in living quarters. The Icelandic community seems out of date and is not listed here with the organisations involved, but, of course, the rural communities and the scattered settlements are extremely important. Most would agree that it is interesting and good to develop a learning system, but it may be too expensive to buy, as it may be, an increase in the amount of wax and removal of the revenue mechanism, i.e. It'll be equal loans, if it comes. There is talk of discrimination between habitats and economy, where regional students will need to take more student loans. We, from abroad, know that the extra cost is to get an education away from home, whether from house to house or from travel, and many others come in. You need to get more involved in the bill. One thing that has been said not to solve a student's main problem - I know of a young woman who was finishing her master's course in Britain. The hardest thing to do was to get paid all the time. On page 18. 28 people are talking about how complicated and difficult it is when something is overcrowded or the student does not meet the requirements for a student's career or the number of units is not exactly the same as the student had anticipated. But the North countries are doing this. If we are offering some northern role model, why are we always taking some things, but that is not all? You can't say this doesn't work. There must have been something solved in other northern countries who rely on themselves to ask for a monthly payment, which is not done here. They must have had to solve it. They must have faced some of such problems, and we have had to do so. This is what you hear, that students are always complaining, that they have to take an expensive bank cover to make a living, get their money, get their money, or borrow long time later, and spend an eternity in their dealings with the bank and everything that belongs to it. They are even abroad and have Icelandic banks, so this is really something that is being rolled over to the studio instead of dealing with it. It would be interesting, therefore, because I saw that the Minister is going against me, knowing why the Icelandic loan system is like this at the LAIN, and why they don't trust themselves to do it the way the other North countries do it. It must be our goal to reduce the cost of students to financial institutions rather than to promote it. I also worry about it when we talk about students abroad. The minister came here to see that he is not deeply concerned that foreign students are attending a limited study. Similarly, we want to educate our people, even send them to expensive studies, or they want to go to expensive school that is not taught in Iceland. This may be the danger where the school fees are high, e.g. In the United States and elsewhere, it is not just there that students will be handed over to bankers if they have the opportunity to do so. Recently, we were given senators, some of them, a letter that told us that a mother was betting her house for 8 million so that her daughter could complete child psychiatry in the United States because the arrangement does not work out. This is a long, expensive study. We really need people with such an education here at home. But then there is the payment system so that students do not trust to return home, become reality, in order to keep up with payments, i.e. in the current system, because the pay is so low. This is based on a mean wage of 500,000 bucks. which are not the reality of those who enter the workforce. We know and have heard of a considerable increase in unemployment among college students. However, that number, half a million a month, is determined. Of course I know there's gotta be some point of view. But is this realistic? I'm not convinced of it, and I look to a newly graduated teacher who is not so sure of it. I don't want our students to go to a private student loan fund that's beginning to appear or take a big bank loan or something that you've known to have to do. We must want to build more on this if we are reevaluating the system, which, of course, is long - term. That's why I'm taking it. The article referred to a 180 - page class review, but there are now more and more who point to a number of factors. One of the factors that have been pointed out is that if you take a student loan, there will be really many bonds, e.g. When the BA is finished, because that's every semester. This bond is closing, and then it starts to grow. Instead of the arrangement as it is today, where interest grows to the end of the study, they begin to tick and tweet right away on their first records. It may be an expense that I don't know if a secretary has assumed in his conclusions or what, but at any rate it seems to the figures, I confess that I haven't done it, that it really means that the student's starting to collect a lot of interest until he does today. That is one of the things we need to consider. Once again, with income-related payments, I think it's something we need to look at, removing the income connection, raising the interest. I think my strength's coming up. Besides, as mentioned earlier, some may not need it, it's just a good allowance for the people who can live at home with Mom and Dad, especially in the big capital area where there is access to college. But for students who have to go far, it's no allowance, they're very short for a lot of things. Madam President. I think that ahead there's a lot of work on the General and Education Committee to go through the bill. When you revise a bill like this and make these changes, as is suggested here, it seems to me that after you've looked into these reviews, there's a lot that needs to be considered. As a local woman, I feel weighed more specifically to the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u40	A respectable president. I'm going to start by praying with respect to what's happened. Senator, I didn't mean to scare the senator with the length of this review. It is proper to note that this 180 - page assessment contains a lot of pictures, actually a great deal. It's only 180 pages. This does not change the value of the pictures because they are looking at the financial burden by student groups and by groups of work, by income, and by how it comes out. It's so important. I also feel that if we look at these factors and that students take a loan for 100% progress, which must be the goal, the groups will come out better. That's what matters, and turns even. magazines, as it were. A senator mentioned the position of those in the house - to - house house office who come from abroad. Whether they come from abroad or they are living in the capital area, and they have rent rents, the same is true of them. But the figures I mention here indicate that these parties will be in a better position than before. Of course, once the student loan is over 7.5 million, the situation will change, while the vast majority of the people we are talking about, for example. In Iceland's University, and that's what students' analysis at the University of Iceland points out, is better out of this change. In turn, it is a natural state. A senator mentioned when the remuneration will begin, so our system will begin a year after the end of the study. In Norway it is seven months after graduation, in Denmark on January 1, after the final year of college, and in Sweden six months after the last study aid year. In other words, it's made clear here, there's no single system on this, but we'll have at least a little more time in this regard than anyone else. [[The president calls.]] I'll come to the second time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u41	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It's a good thing that this is a much graphic presentation, these 180 pages, but it is also worth calling attention to the fact that numbers can be played in graphic format. Criticism may have included that if the minister believes that there is an enormous amount of information on just what has been called something left over, i.e. effect on different income groups, it would have been very important to get it out with the bill right into the discussion so that we could take it along from day one. In view of the fact that he also mentions child support and reduced growth, we should not forget that the income groups, i.e. Those who get pedophiles are fewer than before. I am surprised to learn that despite the results, while less people receive interest improvements, fewer are getting pedophiles, despite more interest on loans to be given here, this system is better. It just doesn't quite fit in my head, but it might be a good thing when we go through this, get these numbers, and get some visitors and maybe other comments. It would also have been desirable in view of such an extensive review that she had been exposed to a minister, and in reality it would be to react also to the criticism of others, other comments would have been based on that if those calculations had followed. That's what you might have wanted to see, but we'll see how it's coming out. And I wasn't talking about payback time, i.e. when you start to repay, but mainly to the interest level, you start to tick in right away, different from what happens now. [[The president calls.]] We're building something that I don't think we have to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u42	A respectable president. Of course, the data that the University of Iceland's student council has worked on the student group there, which reflects much of what we know in Iceland. Not everyone gets better out of this system. I've never said it, and I'll never say but I'm pointing out that a large group, vastly more things, will come out better when it comes to a payment rate, especially groups I know we are. A senator watches. This can be discussed by the committee, and I know it will be done. I also realize that this is a complex and complex calculation. As a result, it is normal to go over the calculations, I realize that, but they are no more complicated than it is possible to reach them. The other thing I would like to mention about students abroad is that according to a report published by the Icelandic Schools Fund from 2015, there are about or over 2,000 creditors from abroad each year. Of these, less than half, some 950 people are borrowing for school expenses. Of course, we need to focus on this discussion when we are considering the effects of the changes presented here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u43	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. That may be, however, I think that we need to look primarily at our borrowers, that the payments will continue to be income-related, in view of the fact that the balance of pay here is not practical, unfortunately. I don't think it's all classes that graduate after five years of study--and then we're just talking about the BA, not the master school or the MBA or what they're now called on, where people have even committed themselves even longer -- who are getting paid right now at the market as they are today, despite all things. Despite all the ups and downs and downs, there is still considerable unemployment among college people who go abroad, so I think we need to take a good look at this and also the interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u44	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for her speech. I just wanted to come in because I know why. A member of the committee considered several aspects of the bill to be considered. I like the basic thoughts of the bill, i.e. trying to get younger people to go to college straight from high school, try to finish it as soon as possible, and gives them a group of opportunities to get even debts out of college if they have had the opportunity to live at home with their parents. Then, however, there is a group with no place to do so. He will then have a slightly inferior one. Then there's the group I'm really worried about, and there's those who come back to college and they're going to be stuck with a huge load of payment, because if people don't have to be more than 35 years old when they finish five years of college to get that heavy pay money, it's a question whether they pay to do this, not unless they get a lot more money. That's the part of the bill I'm really worried about. I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament whether it is true that the committee reviews these scenarios and the effects that will change, because we say at the same time that we want to run a community in which we encourage people to be educated throughout their lives, people always have another chance in society, etc. Then there is a question: Is it another opportunity for a person who goes to five years of preschool, graduates 37 years of age, to offer her the opportunity to have the high pay on the loans that she needs to work two evenings in the Theocratic Ministry School? [[The president calls.]] It tugs on there and overlaps the viewpoints and goals that I feel the committee needs to review carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u45	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with her. It's just this thread that we've both criticized, and you've seen in the media that most people criticize. Despite the efforts of a minister to convince us to the limit that this will be better and lighter in all places, people are deeply concerned about the remuneration burden. I am not convinced, and I need to see calculations from more than one person that this is so and in view of what was said earlier, that both child reforms and compensation have been reduced or the fewer groups. I saw it as a student and professional counselor in high school where I used to be there when a new school rose, people who had left early in school, were on their way again, and if it goes on, it's just the people who have come to this age. Some of them are still in the rented market, others have already invested, etc., they have commitments, so it can become insurmountable. I think this is something we need to look good at. This is totally against it, as I said at the outset of my talk earlier, which says in the bill that everyone should be able to study without regard for the economy. The way this looks at me at least it's not like that. It is also very important when we see this that we do not think only about graduating for jobs. We need to have our variety. People must be able to pursue the education they want to pursue. I'm worried that this is a small goal, that people pick out something that gives them good money rather than an interest in something.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u46	A respectable president. Yes, I hope that the Committee will do some stunt analysis from the bill, how it can affect certain articles, such as. those classes requiring long university education may not pay accordingly. This can be a major burden to them; teachers, gymnasium teachers, and other sources. So I'm asking for it. Then I wanted to mention something else. It's not quite all gold that glows. We're talking about strength here. As soon as someone is taking something more than strength, i.e. loans, because of the changes that are being made, start to collect interest on the loan as soon as it is paid off, that the strength of those who need more than the thin strength will start to eat up, i.e. The State saves itself by letting the interest begin to drop on the loan as soon as it is paid out. [[The president calls.]] This is a point that I feel that the committee needs to look at, that there is an inequities among hosted volunteers, and where they stand in their place at home or not. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u47	Madam President. There are very few things that are certainly the largest part of what the committee needs to consider, i.e. The accelerator connection to the cities and the scholarship. It is a question, as mentioned earlier, whether the interest is actually paying up. The Council of EI has given us a conclusion that they believe this is a costly price, i.e. increase in growth and recovery of income connections, and the bill for the difference between students from home and economy. I agree with that. The Icelandic community is also concerned about that. This must be the focus of it, for education is an enormously based language and not only in the form of attending school but also, as mentioned earlier, to get people to come back in some other way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u48	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this assessment of the bill, and he wants to ask it a little bit more about extracurricular students. Now I know that she is a member of the country and has also been a student counselor. I would like to be curious about whether it was a problem, her previous job, for students who completed the student's test of going to Reykjavík or to Akureyri to attend a school. Remember what's set up on the bill, that 65,000 bucks. might, in addition to loans, make it possible for the local students to come from a study with a burdensome loan burden to their peers and a similar student from the capital area? I think that's a lot of concern, especially if this will lead to students in the capital area for a while at their parents' home. I want to know what my attitude is. This is the case with a senator, especially with regard to her previous experience as a student counselor.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u49	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Today, this arrangement is under discussion. Of course, most of us who have served in high school and perhaps engaged in the work I was facing that students have even found it difficult to pay the small fees in high school. Clearly, there are some students who always struggle to attend. But it's quite well taken, and I know it only as a parent who has sent a child to University South to Reykjavík from the north, and actually in high school too, that it matters whether you have a strong backland or not, whether the student has someone around him or not, because it costs a lot of money to go to a high school that isn't literally where you live, despite some transportation. Some students are studying at the University of Akureyri from my hometown, Olafurd, and taking a bus from bus to bus every day, but this does not change the fact that there is a certain additional cost. However, it is clear that those who have to go further and cannot do this will be able to sit down with more weight and more loans. It's just that this 65,000- call will not be a allowance like those who live at home, as we know, but will be primarily part of the progress that the person needs. That is why it would have been so important for the minister to have this dissension that he quotes from the students of the accompanying bill so that we could have taken that discussion right today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u50	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. I would also like to ask, where there is nothing. A member of a General and Education Committee, of what I recall the European Union of the United States, said that perhaps a similar arrangement could be adopted as in Norway with regard to broken settlements. In Norway, if a student finishes his study at the specified time and moves to North Noregs, a certain percentage will be dropped from his loan. I think of this as an incentive for people to stay in their homes and for others to be able to see them as practical opportunities for learning to go to other settlements and potential innovations, and so on, instead of just being in Reykjavík. I wondered, " Is this a possible way to look further? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u51	Madam President. Thank you for the senator. I agree with that. Of course, this has been discussed many times. Some feel that it is sensitive that a person will follow the completion of his studies and return to his home country, or he will simply decide to move to a country. I think North Norway has been taken as an example. This has been very much discussed in the medical professions, especially in the medical profession. I think there's a reason to look at this. I think at least. that when we're changing the system so much that it's really necessary, there's reason to review and go into it and may also be allowed to know what the unions generally lack in the scattered communities might be.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u52	A respectable president. I always find it appropriate when a case is submitted and to a 1st. that you might ask large statements and listen more closely to what a prominent person has to say and try to examine the subject. I often have it as a rule not to speak a lot in the first. but try to listen to what is being said. This is a huge story to me. A lot of discussion has been on that during the summer, and right away there are some doubts that I'm going to break in my speech. Of course, I hope that in the progress of the case on the General and Education Committee, these doubts will be met. But at the beginning of my speech, I must say that at the very top, I find it truly optimistic. Minister to intend to have the bill approved for elections. There's only a few days left of this senator, and it's going to be all discussed on the committee. This is an enormously important subject that affects the very important aspects of society. I'm not necessarily stating that I think the bill is all bad or so, I just think it's optimistic at this point, with this time frame, that I intend to accept it. I feel that there is some kind of irreverent need to be established, and the pressure on the work of the Committee is that the bill must be agreed. I also find it appropriate in such an important case that the groups simply put in place their policies before the elections that are coming and that people are allowed to take their stand for that policy in those elections. This bill is obviously headed for the highest. Ministers and his party, at least naturally, are discussed there. This sound may not have been heard from my body if it had been changed. There has been no very extensive consultation with other classes at the council. Behind the bill there's no such thing as a work ethic. were exemplary in the foreigners'laws that we agreed on during the days, with a parapolitic committee covering the important issues, sewing on the important issue, and then giving a bill that was under the rule of a great deal of peace. I would think that the case of Icelandic students and Bible students in Iceland is a case where groups are supposed to sit down at the beginning of the term and try to reach an agreement, because I think we share goals in this. I think it would have been great if we were now with a bill that would have been the product of such committee work. Of course, a whole different landscape would be in this case. All right. In other words, I am not sure that time will be sufficient to eliminate any doubts over this bill. I'd like to say first, when I saw the first headline on the bill, just like all the people in this country, in the papers, I hadn't been properly introduced to it as a member of the General and Education Committee, I thought this was a pretty good idea. Actually, I agree with that, and I think the representatives of every class would agree that it is important to establish a learning system in Iceland and that things are paid out in strength, that it would be good. This is in harmony with what happens in neighboring lands. When you saw that you were going to pay for that strength and then you borrowed it, you were positive. I still have a very positive attitude toward that goal, and I would like to reach it. Then you start reading more and reading what people say about it and learning more about the subject of the bill. Then there are the natural two things that come to mind. First of all, it is the purpose of the student loan laws, the Icelandic loan fund, to ensure equality for study regardless of the economy. Of course, there are significant questions about whether this is achieved with the bill, since it is expected that the sponsorial section should be financed by more rigid reimbursement and higher interest rates on the loan section. V.E.G. Ministers have been talking about the calculations of the University of Iceland in that topic. I'm going to learn about them. I will see the basis behind its calculations. According to the Minister, according to a student council, 85% of the current students are going to get better out of this system he proclaims yes, that's the calculations that need to be studied. [[It's the calculations that come from the loan fund.]] But there are also important questions in this regard: What about this 15% group? Who's in it? Is it an important group? I think all students are important groups. But what are we discussing? Is there a significant difference between this 15% and 85%? I think we need to see all of this together and from what basis is going on. I think it's a good point that Jón Ólafsson writes in the August 12, where he writes about this bill, what are the loans he's about in this article. The suspicion arises when the bill is read to the highest level. A minister wants to correct only one type of injustice that is paying back on student loans now only about 50%. Some don't pay back their student loans, but others pay them back. It's not fair. I have often described my view that it is right to try to change this system so that the things that cannot be returned are somehow, in part, used to create a supportive system, but I'm not sure that it is the primary goal of loans to make sure that everyone pays back student loans without exception. I think we may be excluding an important educational group that we would like to obtain an education that may be extremely difficult to pursue, from all criteria, on the basis of the study's length, from expenses at this time, is still a very important education. It may be the entire caste. It may well be that we face the fact that these groups, some selected students, cannot fully pay back. Therefore, questions arise as to whether the restoration of the funds system really is the most important objective of all. We may need to compromise on this. That's what I'm saying, it's not necessarily as good as it is now, where so few pay back completely, but some compromise has to go. My presentation will be on the basis of the Commission's discussion. It's natural that you're removing revenue from student loans. For example, suppose it is true that almost everyone or a huge number of people are still going to pay less than is currently being paid monthly on student loans. Suppose that is true. I'm going to put my stitches on it. I think it's a bit incredible that the removal of income bonds results in this. The donation may come back. But we are designing a system permanently. We're not just responding to the system as it has been. We're designing a system, isn't it, that's supposed to work into the 21st century, and we'd like to have it the way we accept it. We will then have a learning loan system in the future, which does not have income - related loans. This, of course, means that in the future, when the system that we now have is long forgotten will develop the motivation for pursuing a university education that involves higher income because people want to be quicker to pay off the loan or they don't want this burden, which will no doubt be regarded as considerable, too much. So they will look for jobs that are most likely to involve a high income. Is that really good as an incentive for the future into the university system? I don't think so. I think we have to design the system so that it allows people to choose an education without necessarily thinking about their permanent rigid income opportunities. It is very important that people also seek education because they have a deep and intense interest in certain fields of activity, with scientific interest in some research that needs to be done, and perhaps at great cost to others, they want to sacrifice themselves in some way in the interest of science and research and increased knowledge. It's got to be there, too. We're creating a very homogenal impulse, I think with this. I also wondered, and I need the answers to the fact that there are more limits to the building work than there is now in borrowing. Maximum time is shorter, though a minister wants to discuss how to meet doctors in that relationship, the maximum number of units, and so on. I need to see how groups that are under attack, who may want to look for education in a way that is different from many others, and over a longer time, coming out of this, people from abroad, and those who take ill - income groups obviously, as well as older students. It is obvious that it will be very difficult for people later in their lives to pursue education, not just after a student's test. It will be very hard to repay, because people are supposed to have paid their loans at 67 years of age or when they are in a general pension age. I'm not sure this is the right policy. I think it's totally ignored that there's a lot of education change in the world. I think we're looking into the 21st century where there's a huge need for ever - increasing education, that people are constantly learning. It's not that people just go to college and get some kind of official tests and then work in a condo all their life. We will see the adventureful advances in technology and science in the coming years and decades, the adventurous changes in society, and it will be very important for this nation as well as for other nations, important for little Iceland to be at work in this and to have a lot of people and people who are really learning. This part of the bill feels like I'm totally working against it. I think he's old-fashioned. I find it very hard to believe that we are simply going to shut down people's increased education after they are a student of college in younger years. I find it very difficult to accept it as political policy that is appropriate for the time we are living, I'm having a very difficult time with it. However, I am very open to the idea of what is at the top of my mind. A minister has to face this. This is, in fact, very similar talk as was the case when the availability of over 25 years of age was reduced to high school. That's when they answered. So a minister would want to increase the education and availability of older people in other ways. It needs to be demonstrated here. It also needs to be explained in what way it will be certain that the modern - day education of an Icelandic nation will always have what is suitable for it. So I need answers to some basic questions. Is this guarantee of equality? Are important students and important groups put outside parentheses? Am I increasing myself? To invest in a wide variety of education does not compare with the important goal of a student's loan. I feel that this must be my goal and that it is also a very important economic objective for this nation. At least these doubts will occur. to spend in my mind before I give the matter my vote. Besides, I'd like to mention, in the end that I find it very shocking, and I see that the University of Iceland's School of Students agree, that there are not many ways in which students completely make up for the financial institutions, and, in fact, the interest rates are increased by the bill. Finally, I must assume that I find it a terrible injustice, and now I'm not going to talk about my personal matters in the context, that loans should continue to be borrowed from a dead borrower, but that responsibilities should not go down with an employee's death. Thus, it is a system maintained that responsible men's children, grandchildren, and grandchildren have greater obligations to student loans than to the borrower's family and relatives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of this speech. Obviously, one of the things to be waiting is to consider the fundamental calculations, both that the loan fund has calculated and that of the Ministry and Foreign Experts, and since what has been calculated from the student movement, which I beg of you. A senator to study. I think that that will be the scene I have mentioned as I look to the reimbursement, which is so important in that regard. A senator is discussing the choice of study. I don't think there's any reason to worry about what the senator has to worry about that will somehow narrow the course of study. On the contrary, I can argue that this will increase the possibility of choosing a study because the remuneration will reduce so much, the payload will be lost. Second, as to the guarantee of equality. Yeah, I think equality is completely guaranteed by this. But what we are doing is separating the loan section from the other. Of course, you have to go through all this well. I don't think this operation is a failure to reduce equality for study. Third, please. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator spoke about the future. I'm just gonna take it in the second part. I just agree with what. A senator says that we need to think a lot new in Icelandic education because of the changes we need to make. A senator mentions. I'll mention to the senator what I've been fighting and fighting for and really stressing that in a society such as us, our future in education is unacceptable, and then it's unacceptable to be in the position of having the poorest student careers known in OECD at the high school stage and that the average age of those who complete the BA and BS in Iceland is the world's highest. Our use of education is too small. We're late for our studies, and we're too long. We need to change this because education is, of course, the basis for this. I'm going to say with regard to the number of people over 60 years of age, I think it was in HlV that three people were on student loans, for example. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are 49 subjects aged 51◯59 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u54	A respectable president. Key elements in what I'm saying are that it is good and valid to compare the system as it is and the system as it is now, which is being used according to most people's opinion of proben as out - of - date and does not play a key role in building an education in the country, and long since it has become time to reevaluate it. One is to compare these systems together, and hopefully the system is better than ever. Minister announces but present systems, for this, the game is likely made. On the other hand, we also need to watch for the right thing to do. A comparison with the old system will not be endless, it will be forgotten. One day we'll realize that we've got a system where payments aren't related and then I'll say it's going to lead to private effort. There are two factors in this matter that lead to uniqueness. On the other hand, the payments will not be related to income, so students in the future will think, " Hey, best I earn as the highest income, so I don't get anything at all on the student loan that makes me feel at least a ratio. Today, people can expect to be taken into account, but that will not be the case in the future. I think it's going to mean "oneness." The other is that before people go into pensions, they will no doubt have their student loan returned. This will also lead to resolve and keep us from developing an ever - increasing educational society, my knowledge, that needs to be present for the society to which we face up to what is coming into existence. For students to be in school too long, and so on in the streets, I think there are things I need to do to redefine professional requirements and grant them the freedom to try to direct students to what they really can finish and want to finish. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u55	A respectable president. The question is, Is the load of payment losing weight on a large portion of students? The answer is yes. As a result, I think that I have a measure of anxiety. A senator has an unrecognized income connection, i.e. if you have a lower load of payment. I'm not just talking about comparing what was before. I'm talking about how we're creating a system that reduces the burden of payment by the majority of students. Even if the income transfers are gone, I don't worry about them at all. A senator simply has because when I look at the formulation of the income now and if we think about how it will develop in the future, this system change is not a failure to reduce people's choice of what they are interested in. Given the arrangement we have today, there is more room. I'm not worried this will happen. Back to the future. You're right. A senator says regarding this old concept that we used in the old days, where it was said with a little contempt that men were eternal students because they did not complete their studies. All that thought has become old - fashioned and out - of - date as to the fact that we do not complete our studies once and for all. We need to re-encourage ourselves, etc. The point here is the student loan system, and we look to how we are in this type of support. There is a wide variety of education in society, such as coz. A senator knows, e.g. in Iceland's college re-education, all kinds of courses, all kinds of evolution within companies, college institutions and special schools, etc. There is tremendous recovery in this whole operation. We compare the number of years we will spend to support our students by means of a student loan system with what other countries do, e.g. The Norwegian and European countries, and that's what we're talking about here. But I completely agree with what. A senator and I are ready to have a word with him about any changes we have to make in an Icelandic education system to adapt to the factors he mentions. [[The president calls.]] That's what's at hand. It has to do with study periods not only in high school but also with so many of the more important things. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u56	A respectable president. We may back up a little because my answer is actually very similar to what I gave earlier. But first, about the weight of payment, and all of it, I'm going to make sure that you've heard some numbers in it, and you have to go carefully to the sewing of the committee during the procedure of the case. So I'm not prepared to agree with it like that. It needs to be seen all of it, what it's like. But okay. What I'm saying is that even though the load of payment would get lighter, the system that will take over is a failure to increase monotonousness and not fail to meet the necessary demands of the same time spent on a status society. What kind of college community are we making up with this bill? It seems to me that people in the future will see this reality: soon after a student's test, preferably everyone, first of all. All right. Fine. Go to college. Get it done quickly. Education for a job that pays well because you won't have to worry too much about the payload, even if it is less than now, at least you don't have to worry too much about it, it's going to be less of your high income. And just learn once. This is the system's message, for as the years go by and people may be 43, 44 years old, and they want to move on to new projects, as we have planned, it is therefore difficult to pursue education. Society has also changed in that people are in good health and have the ability and desire and even greater development to pursue education later in life. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's serious, though it's not necessarily the main ingredient of education to promote such an education. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But this is exactly where they're working against it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u57	President wants to ask senators to respect their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u58	Madam President. I felt the same way. The first time I began studying the bill, a speaker I thank for the talk, but I feel that my concerns are growing and diminished, we seem to be in a similar situation. I've stayed a lot of that as a matter of course. A senator specifically made a publicity subject which is an entirely independent component of this case, i.e. Uncheck all income fixation. In itself, we can fully discuss the arrangements of a verse - lender to some degree scholarship, etc. Of course, to the extent that humans have taken a student's loan and are about to repay them, that is a fundamental change. It is a ideological transformation that is supposed to disappear completely from some of the reimbursement taking into account the wages men have since spent years of their lives studying. In fact, I think that there is reason to look at the other end too, and I don't forget that the legislation on the loan fund is an important social law on both sides, because it is also remarkable on the loan side, the approach to ensure the development of men, and thus equality to study through it to a considerable extent, and regardless of economic circumstances, all will be able to support themselves during study time. Then at the other end. Maybe I'd like to hear a little bit more about it. A senator's opinion and reflection on the fact that this will narrow the choice of study. As far as I can see, there's just a simple motivation to go to the highest-priored jobs, to remember when you choose to study, he's double, for he's always there to some degree, " What will the study do for me in the future? ' But it will double if you look at the amount of money you pay on your student loans being paid less than that. [[The president calls.]] I can't see any better than it's a double motivation, but it's not simple. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u59	A respectable president. I think there's a good reason to worry about this. As I say, there is one thing to discuss this time point now and compare with the existing system or something like that. We must also look at future time points in front of what students will be able to do. It is true that it is very natural that students look to the potential for study to create it in the future. It's just normal. We have considered it an important part of the study loan system to be important. However, we have had a key role in the student loan system not necessarily in making it the key question when considering study. I believe that it is not necessarily the key questions people will face: Is there a high income in the future? I went to Icelandic and philosophy, I don't think that at that time I thought about what the future would be like, but I attended what I wanted and wanted to learn. If I had been standing at that point before the earnings, no matter what the system might have been ten years before, or the loan would have been unregistered, the system would obviously have been telling me to think more about it. Wait a minute, is this study perhaps the right thing to do in relation to the fact that I would have to pay the exact amount I had to pay for the rest of the month? I think it's so obvious. This, of course, is fundamental. A senator, in his mind behind the student loan system, says that it is the income connection of the payments. I think it is easier to try to reduce student loans rather than keep them related to income in order not to take out this important role in the student loan system, that people don't necessarily have to worry too much about future income. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u60	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the reaction. I think we also need to put this into context with the atmosphere and think about the periods we've gone through and maybe in some ways, and, unfortunately, in a large way, we're still on, i.e. A time of materialism and high attendance at such worldly advantages, high wages, and luxury. What are the needs of society, and how do we want this? I suppose we'd like to have that variety. I suppose we don't want such catalysts to become too populous and crowding people from education to important jobs, the things they want, which, in my opinion, are part of human rights, i.e. Having the opportunity to learn and learn about and to learn about things of your mind and the needs of your community for them too. Let us consider one sector and his design in the decades to come, that is, the way he cares for us, the health - care system and the caring work. I asked and received a written answer from a health minister in advance regarding the prospects for design in the care groups and health groups in the coming years and decades. The answer was quite chilling because we are faced with a huge need for professionals, well - educated professionals who are not very highly paid. Is it likely that this arrangement will encourage people to complete preschool education at university, medical school, and other such activities that we truly need, and more so in the years to come, if they become discouraging rather than looking ahead in the future, where the cost of learning to the extent that they borrowed will not be paid in a financial way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u61	A respectable president. Yes, people in caring classes, people in creative articles that often make a lot of money, but they benefit less from their work than they should. It is a very important group, and unfortunately it is a low income. Of course, it would be desirable for those groups to get simply a larger income and a higher salary, but I think that even if they did, even if they were, large groups of government expenses, public, large groups of government retails, they would get a considerably higher income, which would be desirable, I think it would be safe for me to say that there would be no payiest job in society. I think they'll be different, I'm afraid, but I think there's a certain chance of that. Then I'm going to insist that if we approve the bill and the pay of student loans go unsupervised, there won't be many years before the demand is taken up, and it's very understandable that pay will be paid, because these groups will see that the ratio is too high. There will be some here in this hall to discuss the level of reimbursement of the interest rates of young, fresh out of school, and of the groups we're talking about, and so forth. I'm pretty sure they'll see why they had income connections at first. I think there's a point to be seen in this future and to determine if it's wise.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u62	A respectable president. I've been waiting a long time for this moment, getting a bill to discuss on student loans and scholarships. This is a bill that has apparently been working up in the Ministry for some time, and it is noteworthy that the chairman of the Committee was also chairman of LIN. Then I just have to ask if I've been making a law about myself and if it's normal work. Would it not have been better to get only more neutral members to create a standard for this important institution? There is also the fact that in the panel assigned, there were no students' interest groups, and as a result, I feel strongly about reading the bill. It's a very LIN-center bill. There's a lot of power being made to the board of directors, I think, in my bill, and that's what it's about to be. - I'd love to have the highest. A minister of education in the hall, if he's here somewhere, where I'd like to have a word with him. President? Well, okay, then I'll just talk to the air. It's a question that when we're making a full reexamination, we don't have a proper overall review - I really have to admit that I find that I'm very special at the top. The Minister of Education isn't here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u63	President wants to give it up. A senator knows they're calling for the highest power. A minister of education, and hopefully he's just out of the hall for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u64	If so, I could stop the clock or start my speech again at the height. Minister will come?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u65	The president feels that there is no reason to start the talk again.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u66	If I could, then...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u67	The president may consider a few seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u68	Yeah. Interesting. Thank you, chief. President. Then I'm going to carry on with what I wanted to say, including criticism of the type draws this bill and the number of stakeholders from LIN to the production of the bill. I think it's very unnatural for the board to make laws about itself, I have to admit that I don't think it's a good practice, and as a result, it's a very special LIN. Three o'clock. It is said that the Board of Education, the Credit Line, appreciates whether study is helpful. There are no standards or emphasis that show when study is auxiliary and who should evaluate it, and if there is any doubt about whether the student should enjoy the doubt or not. I find that there is much to be said about giving students rights to enjoy the doubt when it comes to LIN. There are other factors in the bill that are very important to consider. First, the discussion is about strength. When is strength, and when is strength not? In the present system, it is assumed that the strength is kept in that students do not pay back all the money they earn unless they have enough money to do so. Hence, income payments are linked, and in that sense, efforts are made to promote social smoothing and to pursue study regardless of how much money they earn after the study. However, it is not expected here. Everybody here is supposed to pay the same amount back. This is where they try to make sure that the loan is actually profitable, that the loan money gets its money back. That is, in fact, a fundamental change in the thinking of the loan fund. There is something important to consider. Such changes need to be discussed in order to develop in the community. Then I have to tell you that I find this to be an incredible optimism of the highest degree. The Minister of Education to try to get this bill through the end of the council, especially as it is today, is being announced for the election in October and so forth. There are some things that need special attention on the bill. A roof is being placed on the level of the individual's loans. The peak loan is 15 million, and it does not take into account how much of this 15 million is in progress and how much is involved in paying expenses. There is the sky between paying fees and making a living. If the financial goal is to be able to pursue university studies without having to work concomitantly, a distinction must be made between what the loans are made. 15 million. K. A loan doesn't go too far. What is lacking in these numbers is a consideration of why people have high loans. It considers who has the very best loans. The bill shows five of the highest requisitions of creditors, the highest of 48 million, so these are enormously high, but on page 20. 29 You can also see a number of borrowers by means of a loan. Most people have the lowest loans, and it's understandable, of course, that most people who take loans and who have open loans now are those who have either a BA or a BS study or who are starting studies. If we take those loans and don't have school fees, it's about that. 3 million, if I remember correctly. Next, the ratio declines, the second to most people have 5◯7.5 million in loans. Plus, there's 4% of those that borrows 10 to 12 million. The bill does not tell how these people live in a family situation. Like the situation today, parents who are also Bible students are borrowing from the Icelandic loan fund to provide for their children. A single mother with two children who attend five years of study has about 10 million after five years of study, actually 13.3 million after five years, according to Table 5 on page 5. 29th We see that those who take the highest loans are very much for parents. This is not taken into account when looking at the loans, and it is a complete failure when you try to explain it. Fifteen million peaks, a single mother with two children gets 10 million in the new system, and the strength is the same as for others. A person in a home gets a scholarship and doesn't need to borrow. We'll just see how it's won. It is absolutely a failure to avoid looking to people's circumstances when we charge out how much money they borrow. That's why I think it's really important, and there's something I could have done on the bill, separating money from college loans. These aren't the same things. For alimony, especially when talking about the advancement of our children, it would be wish we could choose and take the good out of the Norwegian route, one is, for example. that children's growth with students is really strong there. I would find it a far more natural way to give strength than for those in my parents' home to enjoy strength, but in this system that is being proposed, they will get 65 of you. K. per month. How will it affect consumption, how will it affect inflation? 65 p.m., it's very nice for barina downstairs to get the farm, where students are famous for wanting to drink a little bit, not worse if they get to do it with government grants. I'm putting a big question mark on this arrangement. [[Up front.]] - It's just that it has to be said right now. In regard to the height of student loans, the difference must be made whether we are talking about a peak of school fees or a peak of staging loans, simply because some studies are expensive. Some studies can't be held in Iceland, and I just ask, "How much does it cost to pay for one of Iceland's High School medical students? How much? When we are going to make such a system change, we need to take into account that sometimes it is simply cheaper for us to send people out to study, especially in art studies, but I know that the top. Secretary of education is a great artsaver. The fees for the world's most famous acting and music schools are not particularly low. There are specific articles that we do not teach, such as. in a musical game, people often have to go outside the landstones in order to continue playing musical instruments. I don't think the bill handles the problems that Icelandic students now face. Here, the main problem of the system is to create some kind of crown equality, so kids living at home with their parents can still apply for scholarship, and they are actually best out of this system. If you don't have to take a loan, you get the best strength. There is one thing I would like to mention at the highest. Minister where he's here, but it's the comparison of sponsorship in the old system and the new system, how it's illustrated in the bill. On page 18. 36 is a picture called a type - old system, followed by a different form called a type - a new one. It turns out the pictures are less large. I hope it's just a mistake, but it seems that when you're speaking through this as a senator, it's about three inches higher, and that's why the strength seems to be higher in the new system than the old one. There's something I need to check on. Also, there's something else I think is a very misleading presentation, it must be said at the moment. This is a table on page 6. 29 shows a loan after three years of study and five years. The loans, the figures that are here, are just a name. The real value of the loans at the end of a study is not demonstrated, since interest begins as soon as the loan goes on, every semester. This means that a person after three years of study, with six counts behind him, has six open loans, six credit notes are correct. After five years of study, he has ten bonds. It says here it's 5,527,000. a loan in the new system in case of a person who takes the full extension for five years. But the real value of the loan at the time when he finishes his education is about 6,270,000. There's 700 of you. K. Difference. There's nothing to consider in the calculations we have here, and that's what I want to criticize the highest. Minister for. It's a misapprehension. It's showing, yes, it's possible to say that it's coming out better. But better for who? I'm not sure this is going to be better for kids who have 10 million to pay. K. A loan of 3% interest. Similarly, an increase of 3 billion is needed. K. borrowing with 3% interest after 40 years totaled 2.4 million. K. During the 5 billion interest rate. K. loans with 1% interest for an individual in the current system would be approximately One million. The growth rate is so great that we really need to consider whether there is a need for growth as much as this one does. There's one thing here that I'd be really happy to get an answer to the highest. A minister of ours is under pressure from recent casualties. I don't think that's clear enough. That's what it says about the loans at 16. Gr., I remind you, interest is 2.5% along with pressures that are likely to pay back student loans (U.S.). That's what we're talking about, like, a super-open monstrosity. I'm not sure how LIN gets to interpret this. Are we talking about 0.5% of added stress? Don't we need to place some roof on the pressures that the LAIN can put on students because of a recent failure? There's a lot of things here to fix, and a lot of the numbers here, shouldn't I have had a few extra seconds? [[The president calls.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, then I'll give another speech to review all my other concerns.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u69	A respectable president. First, I want to draw attention to the fact that when it happens. A senator says that this system works out that the loan fund gets its money back, of course, it's totally wrong. The current arrangement allows 47◯48% of the loan fund to be actually a source of strength, i.e. Don't come back. On the contrary, this bill is not meant to change it or to reduce its strength, as it were, to be a law against it, that government funds increase their financial resources to the fund. So it is wrong to argue that this is a change because the loan fund receives its money back. The ratio will be no less than it is now. A respectable president. I have a question for you. The senator, for it is the pay factor and the result for individual groups. There's a figure here that I know about. A senator has not studied, but they were published today. I know why. A senator is very interested in this. It examines standard nursing students who are taking a Bachelor degree, 240 ECTS units, and considers the difference between these two systems, which will be the reimbursed. In the calculations derived from the students, the conclusion is that the current system of recovery would be 5,636,204, but in the new system 5,449,668. Given that this is the right thing to do, why not? A senator would agree that it was a better system, which made it possible for the nurse I mentioned - the need for more nurses and caregivers - if this is the case, if we assume that it is correctly calculated, then it is not. A senator agreed that this system with the changes and conclusions I described earlier, i.e. that the return would be lower, would it be the preferred system modification?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u70	A respectable president. Now I don't have a basis to determine if... given that this is the right thing, we're talking about 300 yous. K. Payback. [[Up front.]] I can't tell you if it's better or worse. I'm thinking about the overall impact of this, and I'm especially thinking that we are giving people the strength that lives in parents' homes and really doesn't need it, instead of that. to give the scholarship to students' children so that they do not have to borrow for their children. I think it's to make a better use of this strength. In fact, I think it's a sort of catalyst for my mother's hotel at the invitation of LIN, that the Icelandic students who live in the capital area get more incentive to live long after their age. Whether one system is good or bad when it comes to reimbursement - it needs to be viewed on the basis of both systems because we are comparing apples and oranges when we try to compare these systems together. First of all, by making our payments, we are usually relieved of the payments and those who can pay more. That is the basic thought behind this system. It's not that people pay evenly. It's that people pay for what they can. Will a nurse who borrows 5 million and that's still 5 million - and we're not talking about inflation and insurance in all of this, which we should consider - finish paying off his loan? There's another motivation, too. The whales in this system vary, and the strength varies. I must admit, I find it immoral that when an individual falls away, it is called strength. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's just a decapitation, or when we talk about loans, everyone's banks would talk about individuals'strength. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u71	A respectable president. I'm not going to have a long discussion about this, but I want to make up what I think is important. When it comes to single parents and children, we cannot watch the student loan system alone. Of course, we need to look at the funding systems available to support that group; child reforms, cohesion payments, etc. In fact, it is a group that is very low in income when these payments arrive. That's what we've pointed out. When you look at this combination, i.e. Given that people are planning to have 100% extension, and then plus a loan to 100% of the sources, the calculation indicates that the groups, at least when we look at High School of Iceland, are the ones that have been fully examined in this case and can be expected to have no major differences in other students groups here, come out better than in this system. That is the standard we have when we try to evaluate whether the system change is positive or negative. A respectable president. I realize that there's a complicated matter that needs a few overexplanades. I know why. A senator has been lying over it for quite a while, and that's why I trust to deal with her a word on the figures, because I've noticed why. A senator has taken this matter very seriously. That's why I asked about it. When a situation like this comes up as I just described it, for example. Nurse students, we must not agree that although we come from different political sources, it is desirable that the most part of their education loans now pay back, i.e. the people who are on the usual salary, and who don't go to the most expensive university of the world or borrow tens of millions, but the normal people, they get their share in this, they're not the most expensive, while the least go to the most expensive university? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u72	A respectable president. This is exactly why I think we have to separate college loans and a staging loan. On page 18. Thirty - three on the bill referring to the payment rate, it says that if a student borrows, 9.4 million. In five and a half years, for bank and master's school, it ends with a monthly salary over 500 you. K. Twenty-three of you is the burden of payment. K. per month. A man asks himself, at least I do: this example is being taken here, 500 of you. K. 825s. K. In a month, we're talking about a rather big salary, aren't we?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u73	... BHM...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u74	Yeah, but there's a nursery teacher who doesn't have 500 you. K. per month and elementary-school teachers who do not have 500 points. K. per month. We'll see to it naturally. I would have liked to see a much more detailed analysis from the Ministry on this particular point, how it happens to special revenue groups. Unfortunately, it's not done on the bill. I've read the bill over quite a few times this summer, and I've been getting involved all over the place. I see no better than that borrowers simply include those who pay down their strength while those who take strength gain strength. So I'm really no social equation in this. Yeah, okay, it's still a loan system, but we're talking about how the equation system is. It's such a certain crown equal you're offering here. Everybody gets the same cent, then we talk about the loans. Those who take the loan actually pay it down. I just don't think it's very fair. Either creating a system that has enough strength to sustain and sustain people or just have a credit system, as we do, with someone in it if people finish at the right time, as the Norwegians do. So I don't particularly agree with this approach simply for ideological reasons. It may well be that we continue to disagree on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u75	A respectable president. Thank you for your time on this big and important matter. I don't belong in a full-scale educational committee, but I've only been looking into it. We're only in 1st. So I look forward to seeing the rest, the discussion has been very helpful and informative, and I look forward to seeing what would happen at the committee. I hope she can take with her what has been discussed in this discussion. I'd like to come to some points. First, I'd like to say that, of course, that's the way it is, and I think most people are on it, and really know that, everybody is happy to bring the student loan system into Iceland's sponsorship. It's a long time, but we have to do it properly. There's some ideological controversy about how it's done, that's pretty clear. Hv. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir finished her talk, saying that she had been mixed up with the bill all summer and that she had been looking for the equation in the bill. That's also what I've been doing, I've been looking for where we find people's equations, where we can find a place in the bill that people with different opportunities from different directions, with different backgrounds, get equal opportunities in student loan systems or sponsorships to study in Iceland. Best of all, let's say the boy's name. A senator who spoke before me is not alone in not finding that place in the bill. Clearly, this is not the goal of trying to match the educational opportunities for students. This is not particularly surprising, since this may not exactly be what independence has been known to be doing, not their ideologies. With strength per se, it's good and good for him to be on, but 65 you. K. there's nothing, and then I understand you should also take income taxes from this 65 you. K. People will have to correct me if they're not like that. So it's not gonna be anything. On the one hand, it's my opinion and my vision. I have a very great grasp of the highest. A minister wants to use himself to try to figure out how we can get people to accept our debt. It is unfair that some pay back, those who have borrowed relatively little, while others who have borrowed more money, went to more expensive schools - we ministers agree on this - it's not fair that it should happen to everyone else, on taxpayers, to pay it back. We have to try to figure it out. However, I haven't seen in the bill how it's solved without being highly defective in many other ways. I haven't seen it, but you can try to open my eyes to it. The highest grade has been observed. Ministers that it's bad that we Icelanders go to school too late and study too long, that it's all very bad for the economy. I have a certain understanding of this, but I would still like to shed light on it and move it into the reality of what we are seeing in other European countries where people go to school early and go to the job market with exactly no workforce experience. It's early, at least sooner than we are, most of us, from college, but maybe it's weter than those Icelanders who are used to working hard in summers, maybe working between high school and then college. It is only very valuable to collect experience, and it is also important for society that we get people into the educational system that has gained experience and may well know what they want to learn, is more determined because they have been able to move into the field of interest. It happens just in life, but not just at a school table. I'd like this to be put in context, and we'd appreciate it a little bit. I don't think there's much to discuss in this context. Only with reimbursement loans, i.e. The accelerator connection has been removed. Clearly, this is worse for long - term high school students who work in traditional women's classes, such as midwives and nurses. It's a long study, and above that, in women, the natural 10% difference in salary that they can somehow expect. I'd like to say for women that it's a system that's being offered here completely lost because we're going to pay as loud as others, it's not a income connection, but it's expected that women as a social group get less pay, the unexplained amount of pay that can only be explained by sex, unfortunately. I'm also worried about students from abroad, students with children from school, single parents at school, and I'm worried about what I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the equation I feel is completely missing on the bill. First you get the strength, but then you can take a student loan if you need something more, and it's quite certain that more is needed if you have children, is a single parent, or comes out of the country. These groups need to carry more money, and they are in the least position to do so. Then it is the cost of living as a minister that he spoke out of it and specifically stated that the educational movement in this country has been fighting for long enough that we have made this loan system a real cost of living. V.E.G. Minister says it's working now, it's about to be done for 100%, not 90% or something that it used to be. All right, then, of course, it matters how the cost of living is calculated. I'm not so worried about it here in Iceland, but it's just been shown in the reviews and in the context of the situation that foreign students were very angry about the way a minister established their policy of development. We had a discussion about this before a council ended in the spring, where SINE, the European Students'Union, was very much challenging the figures that the minister proposed in his analyses when he calculated a future criteria for students abroad. This needs to be examined much more, and the criticism of this group needs to be answered much more. You're fast on time. I have a few questions that I may not necessarily want to direct to a minister or, yes, since he is in the hall. I appreciate the fact that he's sitting here with all of us. There are some comments to some of the articles that I would like to introduce, first to two. par.: ▪ Accelerators who are organized at the same time as they work are not auxiliary at the fund. I simply ask: Is this new? So there's no work to be done in school? So, are we talking about a popular study like NPM and MPA mine, all that study, study with a job, having knocked off the table, that it's going to be a student's loan? There's 5. par.: ▪ Right to help out for study in Iceland The bill says that a citizen of the EEA can apply for this in the form of the following conditions: a student is an employee or an independent person and will continue working here during studies. Simply put, I ask, For a second point. Which I mentioned, that a student would not borrow if he was employed, how can this work together? It would be good to know. Then there is 9. par.: ▪ The end of study aid, the impact of age and limitation due to paid study. I may have brought this into my talk earlier with the way it gets worse for women, and of course the way people have been doing here, senators before me, to go to school later, study at 35 years of age, or about 40 years of age, and then have to pay a considerable portion of their schooling back to pay them up to 67 years of age. Then there's the interest rate. This is a significant increase, from 1% to 2.5%. They always talk like these are such great loans because they have so little interest, and yet that's how it is -- I can just take an example of myself, I went this safe way, took a small loan, as little as I could, but out of insurance and other student loans, even though I pay a lot of money every month. All the talk of this being so awesomely favorable for us is not supported by my reality, inside my private bank, so I haven't quite quite known what people mean in this relationship. The increase to 2.5% and the loan is assured to continue, but with the recent success of the loan as soon as it is paid out but not from the end of study. This means significant increases in student loans. Finally, because I see that my time is running out, is 21. which is responsible for the management of the fund: It is permitted to hide financial contributions loans, collections, and other daily payments. I want to know what this means, if it's new. Does this mean that the financial companies like Dírímur can take over a debt, or does this mean that the law firms with the tax collectors, whose names are all of them, have become financial companies? We know that they are already collecting for the loan fund that I have felt was overly harsh or somehow foolish. Can't the loans do that for themselves? I couldn't get over everything for now, but I would appreciate it moving forward, at least to the Committee, and to be examined more carefully. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. Of course, she was quite businesslike. First of all, the last show I had. A senator noted that this is not a law - altering time since it has been for decades. It is the exact same law as it has always been. I also saw this discussion in one of the reviews we received. There was some small mistake, there was no change in what has been before. Regarding women's position as a dog. A senator made particularly interesting for the publicity of the student's comments from the University of Iceland, but a large proportion of students at the HI are women, and how this system comes out for the class there, and thereby the major number of women attending the HI studies. The result of this calculation is that it is a better structure, leading to a better economic conclusion than the present system. Then people can wonder if something can be made even better. I'm sure it's possible, but based on the framework we have, the funding we have - and we know that if the bill becomes that law it will cost a considerable amount of money from government funds, so the study aid is being greatly added in Iceland - this is the case. The other thing is, it's time to remember about the study aid in Iceland that, if I remember those numbers correctly, about 25 of you. a person who is a high school student, both at the university and in a high school trade and to-dos class. About ten of you. In turn, students are taking loans now. This combination suggests that a greater proportion of students who are borrowing are not borrowing. All right, then they can talk about why it is and what it is. There are reasons, but we assume in this bill that there will be a considerable increase in those who will at least be strong. I think in the end, it'll be better for the Icelandic education system that we back up as many people, that's not much of the most expensive schools that get the biggest scholarship and the rest of the guys who go to, for example. a formal study in the North or Iceland where school costs are the least. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's a smart system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u77	A respectable president. At the top. Ministers agree with me on this last one. I agree that this is unfair, as shown in my speech, with those who attend the most expensive schools, who take the highest school loans, student loans, forward loans, and we've seen that we can't, compared to the current system, and who will never pay everything back. Something's over and maybe a lot of things. It is not fair that this is the case when those who go the other way, choose a moderate way, pay everything to the top. Of course, that is not fair. I'd love to see the calculations as the highest. A minister mentions that women should have it better now compared with those 65 you. K. in a strength, which, though not due to income tax, is it not right? Yeah. So that's less money. Women are very often with children, and younger women at the university then have a pair with the men. What's left is that we have the shitty fact that women come to the job market and get about 10% less pay for the same work as men than they do according to the system as the highest level. Still, a minister proposes that they pay as much per month from their student loans. And there's a situation difference, the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u78	A respectable president. I know why. A senator agrees with me that you watch out for being out of group in such a way as to say that women come out of this way and men come out of it like this. It's a lot more complicated than that. They focus on your choice of study, on income, on study periods, family conditions, etc. I noted that in the analysis that has been performed on the University of Iceland, so I specifically mention it, HR has also reported this and HA, but with this school where the gender combination is, I brought this conclusion to my attention. I don't want to get over it. I just want to say that. Then the other, because of what. A senator was wondering about a school planned for work, so it's not the same as being able to work with the study. Of course, humans can continue to do so. In fact, the level does not decrease, although working with the study is not reduced, although if you can get over the income line and make money, it becomes high, but much of the students do not work so hard by the study that it has an impact. As a student who is expected to have jobs and earn jobs, it is really a matter of justice to reduce the ability to strengthen others and to lend loans to this group, but that is a matter of contention. For e.g. It's not gonna be affected by the foreign citizens who are active here. Again, study is being arranged for.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u79	A respectable president. It says here, this is the last sentence on the first page of the bill: A person who is organized at the same time as a job is not auxiliary at the fund. Then it is important that the General and Education Committee take this discussion here with them into their work, and we all have the same understanding of this thing. Not all employers readily pay for high - risk studies along with work. People even have to shrink... now I'm talking about something else. [[Up front.]] If you choose to reduce in consultation with an employer, study, while an employer makes sure that you cannot do 100% work -- and you reduce your work to 80%, or what, can the person take some student loan? [[Up front.]] So this is a staging point, and something's been taken care of, and that's very good. What else would I discuss? Now that I've forgotten, it's happened so Ministers can get rid of my pill now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir daughter for her talk that included a series of points that I have considered when I have studied this subject, a bill for a school loan and a scholarship. There are mostly two things I would like to have to do with what's happened. A senator about. The first factor is that. A senator said that people in Iceland are often going to school later and with some more experience, or, as the senator said, people do not go as easy behind their ears into an Icelandic labour market. I'd like to discuss this just because one of the things I've seen as such an advantage in Icelandic society is that you can change the course. If you are on a course, you can change later in your life. I worry that people who do not take what is sometimes called the direct way through life are being pressured. This is so because high school education has been limited, since over 25 years of age now has much less access to high schools and so, for example, to high school schools. by reducing the borrowing capacity of older ones. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree with me that there can be great social change and not necessarily for the good? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u81	A respectable president. I certainly agree with the senator. Of course, we know that the community has changed that way, and will change much more in that direction, that we are not in some assembly, born, going to basic school, going to work in summers, going to college, and dancing at some office in a job that someone's uncle helped you. Then you work there all your life. It's not like that. I rejoice that the reality today is that people can follow more dreams, find out what is really good, study them, and work on them. Then the interest field can change, and it's good for society that people do what they want to do. It is more creative than a person's losing weight in something that he or she feels is boring. Each person knows that there is little more to it and not much in the long run. I now remember what I wanted to ask a minister about, and I know that the senator is interested in it too, and I would like to get it to. Now it's being limited in some way for months, now it's limiting the number of units, and I'm worried about how it's going to deal with groups like invalids who can't attend their disability or circumstances for nine months of study, as you say. What will happen to these people? I'm worried about that and I'm wondering if the Senator's not doing it too.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u82	V.E.G. President. The last thing that ever happened. A senator came in with disabled persons in school, I think it's very important to consider, the effect there, and I'm shocked. A global and educational committee to investigate this because we know that this is a group of people who have generally seen a lower level of education than walk and happen in the community. Of course, there is a need to consider how changes in one system can affect that group, so this is a good suggestion. Senator. I hope so. A Senate committee will take the initiative to examine this subject. Once again, only in the community and in the opportunities for people to change their course of life. I think this is particularly important in today's society, where people's life span has grown tremendously. We simply live longer, so it may not be strange for people to want to change their careers at some point. I think it's just good. This is also related to what I want to do, which is the gender dimension. This can also affect not only the fact that women are often in less paid jobs, and therefore the non income - paying pay load affects them but also the need for women to take a break from school, e.g. Due to childbearing potential. There are factors that are involved. The burden of payment should also be higher for later students. It shows that there is a substantially high gender difference, with 13% of women over 35 years of age, and only 8% of men. [[The president calls.]] 1.4% of women are over 50 years of age, but there are not so many men. Does the senator agree that this bill is the most important factor in its influence on the sex? [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, I haven't been able to study what has come from the University of Iceland's Board so I can't evaluate it, but I think we need to get a good gender analysis on this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u83	A respectable president. The Senator has clearly identified the highest standards for us. There's a great difference between the sexes in the age range. The more women are studying at 35 years of age and older, and we know that they will have higher payment loads and suffer for this system. Minister. It's very serious. This is shown in a document with the bill, which says in the minister's data. I find it very strange that they didn't stay there, that no one said, "Wait, wait, it can't go this way. " Now we're about to offer a gender-related difference. And it's also with the women's classes and women who educate themselves, long-schooled themselves, midwives, in order to care for jobs that we think are too low as a community. They are under a low salary according to education and according to management. Then they apply this huge amount of reimbursement. It doesn't make sense. If it's true that the School of University of Iceland and the women sitting there, if their review was good about this, I just hope that they didn't realize it and will revise their comments in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u84	A respectable president. I'm going to make a few comments about this huge subject and the viewpoint that wakes up when it's examined and noted. I want to first thank the Minister for taking part in the debate with great intensity today. It is important that the minister handles such important matters carefully and with members of the Parliament. As officers, we have always emphasized the arrangements of student loans, and we are proud that Gíslason Þ. took the initiative to establish the academic loan system that we have long been preparing for. For nearly a half century, this has guaranteed equality for study and a very jealous situation for people to pursue university education within the country and outside. I also think it's important to keep it in place that for more than a decade we've had as our policy in the United States to establish a learning program. I think it's good and wise to take it step by step. It matters in the way that it is done. The basic concept of the academic loan system as it is is that it is an equation system that has equal opportunities for those who could not otherwise study. However, the nature of the scholarship is quite different. It is as well as in the bill and is logical in many parts of the bill in order to improve the efficiency of the university system, to promote an improved course of study, and to shorten the time leading up to graduation. There are detailed evidence and many figures that people will complete education much later in Iceland than in any other country. In one part of the bill, it says that the government's benefits of a better course of study are 3.1 billion a year. I think it's a key number. When we look at the situation as it is here, we should draw strength from it. There will be some additional advance from the state, certainly, somewhere between 15 and 2 billion, but the rest of the cost of system change should be paid by students who need student loans. That's where I don't think it's the right thing to do. I think we're supposed to start by saying, "It's absolutely certain that the state itself is supposed to contribute this 3.1 billion, that's only the State's profits by increasing production in the system. Of course, the Kingdom will enjoy that growth in various ways. Then let us take the remaining sum and ask: What adjustments do we need to make in the student loan system in order to deal with certain faults there? There may well be some savings, some changes in terms of spending, but I think that we should keep these separate, the state should be at the cost of setting up the scholarships, and then the loans should be added. There may well be some savings to the export, since all of us agree that certain problems are built into the system today. The strength of the empire is being used in a most random way. The bill has figures on the highest loans in the last few years that are huge. The bill says it's about 20% of the borrowers who receive 74% of the state's grant. Of course, it tells itself that this is not necessarily what we want. It is also very important to bear in mind in these situations that there are also benefits in the present system that people can study, not just when they are young. That's what I may feel is a lack of in the coverage of the bill. In a totally natural way, people are not able to raise much loans very late in life, which are obvious to me that they will never pay, but I do not feel that a clear discussion of how the State will handle this fact, not only in Iceland, but in many other countries people are making two, even three, carrier's life and have to be re-created to complete new jobs. I just feel like I don't have a little coverage about it. I also find that some of the changes you see here make me feel that there's been an auction to make changes that could possibly save money but that all students are in trouble. It's, for example. continue paying out a student loan afterward, which means that the banking system in Iceland is enabled to suck money out of students. I mean, if this becomes reality, it's beginning to be time to test it for EFTA to see if it works when the Icelandic government has a banking system that is more and less on the market, it's about to give Icelandic banks this way an unorthodox opportunity to make money on students. I just can't believe it can be done. So I feel that there is good reason for me to look especially at the committee to change this. Also, it is not clear that school loans should be more expensive than a staging loan. I think it's normal to be done. They say these are two loans. But we also know that there are indications in the past that we have seen a large increase in school - based universities and loans for school executions. All we have to do is stop them for bad. It is also a matter of observation and in the bill that one of the reasons for the changes is now a large increase in borrowers, following the efforts of young people to engage and study as a working road in the last government. I am very proud to have been involved in this assignment. But it was part of a conscious decision to use the university to re - educated people. We need to decide now, taking a position on how we are going to ensure that the government has the opportunity to do the same in the next crisis, to use the university to further education, to fill schools rather than to put people on unemployment benefits, to improve their skills and to pursue further study. There is a need for a materialistic view of opinion. I also notice another change that I find to be against students. It is the fact that rather than borrowing at the end of a study period, it is taking on growth and compensation for growing and paying for the entire study period. It is now a bit ironic for those in attendance at a government that they thought should be a government for decommissioning insurance and putting the risk of inflation on students, getting them out of the state, and putting students at risk of inflation during the entire study period before people begin. One is to carry a risk through the insurance policy when you complete your education and receive the pay increases that are on a pair somewhere during the increase in insurance, but I think it's a very long way to give students a risk of inflation and interest throughout the study period. I also notice that men talk about 3% interest, but it's a secondary size, that's not a Š primate size. It is not the size that is based on the statement: "It is because we think it is righteous or normal. It is based on what is now available the fund budget. On page 6, he has reached a peak of 6.7 percent. Thirty-nine in the report. The cost of financing has increased to 2.32, but today it is 2.94. I find it totally unnatural for loans that are now taking student loans to pay for past decades of neglect of sin. Is it so that the adjustment generation should not only get money from a government fund now in correcting its mortgage at the expense of students now in school but also, in fact, for future students to pay down the funding that came into existence in the past? I think it would be normal for a government fund to come in here and usually say, "From this point on, it will be a government penalty plus pressures that dominate the budget, and the government will take over the difference. " In any case, I think it's completely unnatural that the generations coming are going to pay off this financial cost. Finally, there are some views that I think are important to us. Of course, if a person is going to take a clean look at the loan fund, he will also face the challenge of taking a position on the responsible person who has been in the people for the past few years, where the funds have gone forth hard with responsible men over the past loans. The sea has been used to the full extent that it has felt in order to stand out there. I think from the views of legitimate expectations that it is absurd to argue that responsible men who signed up for a student 30 years ago expected the loan to be, for example. ...real. I don't think it's a good idea to hear that the fund is trying to borrow and then collect on today's market interest today. I think it is minimally necessary for responsible men to enter the loan as it stands today and pay it to the end on the basis of the initial loans. I know at least Many who have written on student loans and have done so themselves, but I don't know of any man who assumed that there would be any reimbursements and that men would pay market interest from the postmortems they fell. It is apart from the opinion of the responsible men and the way their responsibilities are fixed that I find very contrary and that it is very important to find a solution. Of course, it is not logical to conclude that the student's loan itself is not missing, but the responsibility of the responsible man is lost. Finally, to sum up these factors that would make this matter and these changes much, much more temperate. That is, if paid out a month or a month later, people would not be led to reviews. It would be if those past sins were taken into the financing and directed the funding to expect funding for the next few years, and a government fund simply took these instead of sending this account to new generations. Then we could possibly be looking at 1% interest, 2% interest, somewhere between them. Also, I think it's perfectly normal to revise the accelerator connection. I also find it normal to say that there should be more interest in school loans. I think that makes sense. I also find it unnatural for students to be at risk of interest and insurance during study periods because of their lack of securities at that time. Now my time is running out. I think I've been able to review most of the factors, but it's good to see changes in the way that a scholarship has to be made. But it seems natural to me that the cost to them is fully paid by the government. Then we build an additional learning loan system that holds many of the best things we had in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a material speech and a good review. First, I'd like to say it's true that this will be a national gain. If they are predicting, e.g. After that if 60% of the students who are not now taking a student loan take the scholarship and achieve the learning, Iceland will actually become part of the population of the nations that are achieving the best course of study. Then we are talking about the cost of reaching more than 2 billion, so it is the long way for the national benefits we have been given here. In fact, in terms of the cost of financing, this figure, 2.5%, may not be directly found from the fund's financing cost, but who is the financing cost of the state, which was, if I recall, 2.8%. We decided to attach it to 2.5%, which is below the expense, and then half a percent comes down. You're right. One senator noted that if we then look at the fund's position and the problems of a collection of old funding costs, which were too high, we call it very high, and we've been building an e.g. To the hanging of the bank, that there should be a fair sum of money, but it should not move on with this decision. On the other hand, I have been suggested, and I agree, I think it's true, and I hope the committee will consider it, that instead of attaching 2.5%, it can be placed as a roof. So if the government's financing costs go down, which is then floored, then its funds and students will be enjoyed. Then I'd like to say about some of the other things mentioned, maybe I'll come to that later. You know, about the riot as a dog. A senator called so I'd like to say it's true that the loan fund is being reviewed and certain items are being mastered. But the thought behind it is to make better use of the funds so that we can better control it to make it stronger. As less discipline is involved, it costs money, that is, something that goes out elsewhere, and then it will see to it that there is a lower strength. [[The president calls.]] That, of course, is what may be behind the emphasis. A senator pointed out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u86	A respectable president. Thank you for your explanation. They're all for a reason. It will be good to see the committee carefully review this matter. On the other hand, I think we can be so careful that we do not lose the good that has marked this system and created a special place for us. It's easy to say that we don't want people to take, or so - I might want to say this a little different. It is desirable that we have been able to equip people for education in the greatest educational institutions west of the sea and the east. It has been supported by Icelandic innovation companies that there is not a single group, that all experts write out from one school, but that there are people with knowledge in a very different direction and that they add up. We've gained from it as a community. We must not forget that this variety has built us up as a community and we have made money on it. I totally understand. A minister would be interested in the rioting so as to save money and find food holes here and where with normal ways of collecting them, but some things such as e.g. The income link is invaluable. We've been through a lot of years going up and down in the earnings. The good thing that's been in this system is that when you get a lot of money and you get a lot of money, you pay off your student loans quickly. I see, for example. Until now in the fall of the year or the next winter to finish my entire student loans. You can be thankful that you had the opportunity to do so, but it was also very good not to have to pay while you were old.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u87	A respectable president. One thing as soon as possible. A senator mentioned the issues of responsible men and their prospects for borrowing. I think it's an important point or something like that. A senator mentioned. I don't think it's easy to look at it in particular. I think it's a justice thing if it's like this. Actually, I admit I don't quite know it. I think it's perfectly normal that this should be done specifically. With regard to which American students go and what groups we look at, only 1% of our students are taking a student loan today that is over 17.5 million. The arrangement we are now looking at, 15 million in loans, and then the next 3 million in strength, includes over the entire class. Of course, a discussion will arise, naturally. You go to a very expensive university, especially in the United States and Britain, too - if you remember correctly. A senator in Britain like me - not there, there are good schools. [[...not there.]] But I've believed that when people go to the best American university, private, they pay a lot of money there, and we borrow it, and they study it, I think it's totally normal for people who come through that education system that has a lot more profit than most people, I think that it's not fair or wrong, and I don't think that there's gonna be anything to stop people from looking for that kind of education, if you want to pay something back. At the same time, schools in the North, Iceland, Europe, and other countries are much lower and even less school fees, which are very useful schools of education, and which provide excellent education. So I think all these possibilities are open. I believe, then, that by the arrangement we are developing here, it is in no way possible for us to reduce equality for study. But we are certainly changing the way our strength is divided. Then we're even. To look at the fact that various classes that now receive very little strength from us, which are many of the classes that we often discuss in terms of purchase and cost and status here, take a small student loan but pay back a very high rate. [[The president calls.]] We are saying: We want you to be strong too.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u88	A respectable president. V.E.G. When it comes to student loans, a minister does not come to my empty cabin, for I have taken all the loans offered. So I've taken a college loan, alimony loan, I've taken a kid's loan, I've taken a spouse loan, and the loan loan made it possible for me to get a great education. That's why I think it's really important to keep our hands on this beach, it's really important to us. I agree with the highest. Minister when he says that somewhere there is a limit to be set. I've been talking about how long ago there was evidence to make a distinction so that people couldn't collect loans forever and there was no way to pay them back. I'll take it as I believe he says there are 99% of those limits. Of course it is. There is not necessarily evidence that the student loan system fully accomplishes everything. I can buy the argument that under certain circumstances in the most expensive schools, when there are other equally good choices, there is no basis for a conflict. I would like to emphasize the importance of being able to attend the best schools in the world, with all kinds of backgrounds and opportunities. It's a very important part of this system. That is what this system gave me, and it is a very important reason why we live in the complex social benefits of the diversity of learning and diversity in people's background.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u89	Mr. President. I would like to agree with many of the points presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator, and especially what he mentioned there, wrote about the importance of considering whether it is possible to pick up frequent pay for students. It is true that it has been considered a pretty expensive monopoly to switch from the existing overwage system that is not going to change, however, that would be very important, I think, for students to get out of this interaction with banks. So I give them a lot of thought. What I wanted to ask you. A senator is the position he crossed and is subject to a remuneration burden, both due to higher interest levels and to ablation of income connections. I haven't been able to review the diagnosis as the highest level. A minister referred in response to my previous stand as to how this will come to be to different groups of students. There is a situation that may be worse for some groups, and of course it needs to be considered in particular how this happens to a child, who often has more loans and needs to be paid for more expenses than others because there are children. What would be very important to look at, and that is what I want to say to you. A senator, is involved in the policy of this government when it comes to the breakdown of child reforms and growth reforms and newer ideas that special savings is being used to help young people gain housing, property savings, which is likely to be the greatest in the highest income. Then you start to ask yourself: " What is the overall effect of all this action on young children who are not on the highest income groups in Iceland? Are we watching that people get worse out of the government's special savings system, worse off the changing of the student loan system and worse out of the rate of growth and child benefits that have been here during the recent losses?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u90	A respectable president. That inquiry was so meaningful that I needed a whole speech to give a complete answer. This is something to consider, because if I understand the methodology in a new bill correctly, it is expected that loans will be used in full progress, it will be lent to a full extension, but that improvements will count in that roof. Certainly, my credit height will be. The situation today is not completely desirable, i.e. that, in addition to loans, benefits are fully improved, and may also result in the direct benefit of study and the experience of people who have a measure of a good time in leaving student loans. There's a balance that needs to be balanced. But like I'm doing this, the benefits will count in the process. It's quite given a case, and I know some examples, that people have been paid to buy on apartments in recent years on a set basis for a growth reform system that was so impossible. When the government boasts that growth is down, it is not because of the correction, that is, because of the rising price of housing, because people are getting raises that everyone else is receiving, and the values they have not been paid. If this adds up, I'm not worried about it at all. I feel that there is a bit of a privatizing social assistance if it has become so that the first apartment buyers, e.g. to receive adequate support, they pay for it by special possession, which is the exception of a separation, for example. It's an enormous support for people in the collapse to have access to, so I am deeply concerned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The reason I'm filming this is because we're looking at a number of major changes, basic changes, how the public's support for the public in the country when it comes to housing, family development, child development, and when it comes to study. I think it's very important when we discuss basic changes, such as here, to link them with other changes made or to be suggested. What I think would be very interesting to do in the hearing of the council would be to have an analysis of how all these changes combined affect young people in Iceland, a group that we see many people believe has been cut off in government policy and clearly come to meet this last hour and perhaps not entirely predictablely, namely, in the final meters of this election period. how the changes will affect the position of young people. I'll give them a witness, for example. to young people who are coming out of college, who want to rent into a estate market, intend to take advantage of some special savings, which will probably increase as money grows, they should start paying back student loans if they have needed to borrow a loan, so to no longer do so. How will these adjustments affect the position of young people in Iceland? I think this must be a thought for us senators sitting here, because we're trying to see beyond the next term and up until the next election, just a few weeks ahead. How do we live in the best interests of these people? And what we need to find out is especially how these changes affect children, the reimbursement, not least but, of course, different effects between income groups and different effects, e.g. in men and women. [[The president calls.]] Does not such an analysis have to be done before making such changes?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u92	A respectable president. Yes, I agree. I think it's important to have such a complete analysis. I've been a little surprised, I have to admit, the government's attitude toward child development and the fact that people say open to it is that it's only the poorest people to get it. The original objective of both growth reform and child rearing - this was part of a generation contract - was to be supportive of people when the expenses were largely due to housing and child rearing, and then they paid them back in taxes when people were paying more than taxes later on in their working days. So the basic idea was that these would always go up the biggest part of the income phase. So, always in the past, with the need to save money, people put some restrictions on it, but since then, it has always been the goal of raising it again. Now, however, we have good times, and we have a government that aims to lower this and simply says: Our goal is that unless there is no child reform and child development unless there is very little money, there is no such thing as child development. That's a fundamental change. It's going to have a lot of effect, and that's why I think it needs some kind of thing, like what it takes. A senator sort of proposes a certain biographer code. If we assume that the limitations of child reforms and growth reforms will be as rigid as they are now, what future will be in store for, for example. law degree teacher or principal teacher who is on the pay that they just crawl over the limit and get reduced or small child support or interest support, pay with special interest for the reduction of the mortgage, and has no reserve in the form of a special contract in the next recession, since we know in Iceland that there is always a crisis? How interesting it was to see the use of special savings during the last crisis! I think it's a complete anasthesis that would be a good thing to perform here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u93	V.E.G. President. I just want to get involved in a very nice and objective discussion. We are discussing a fairly large and important subject in our educational system, which is about to help and equal people's opportunities, not just young people, but the opportunity to study. I'd like to celebrate in all of this bill we're taking to treat and consider. I also welcome the setting and structure of the bill and how to get it to the top. A minister of education makes that known. In particular, I would like to mention that the goal is to improve the course of study that brings benefits to the government, to the community, and to the individuals. There is increasing transparency in this system, and that is also true. what students have called for I am very happy to see that this is separating and borrowing, but when it is done, the loan will, of course, be on one side, not on the other side, and that's why the loan will go up. I'd like to also mention the income link that has been widely discussed today. It seems to me after reading this bill that it's a positive step. I'm made to feel like what you borrow should be paid back. As the other system was, it didn't happen. At least I think it's a positive step in that what you borrow pays you back, because at the beginning you should look at it. I think it's very logical that you should get out of debt before you go into a pensioner's age. There's something else I'd like to say. I also find it extremely positive that the bill contains emotional or personal help or nails so that people can be helped when something comes up in the life of someone who calls for changes, such as when people face financial problems, buy their first property, or even grow bigger. I think we at the Senate and the Education Committee should consider whether there are any more nails that we would need to nail into to help people not to get into trouble with paying off their loans. I also welcome the effort that we are trying to expand access and help people study basics, make trade branches creditable, and strengthen them, but in recent years much has been called after we graduate more students. And then I'm gonna use the rest of the time in two things that I think we need to think more about in the bill. I'm going to start with the edifice. I am with me in support of the Commission's review of rural society, which offers very helpful tips and suggestions from Norway that provide additional assistance to those who live in the country. We know that those who come out of the country do not have a chance to be at home and that as a result, they will be more expensive to study, especially in town. The relationship then stresses encouraging most students in Iceland to return to their homes or places of knowledge. The relationship here mentions a 10% reduction in student loan. In Norway it is at a maximum of 25,000. Norwegian. More is involved than just helping the student and encouraging him to move and go to school, e.g. in Reykjavík, and then go back. More is involved in this relationship's review, and it is also that such a background of knowledge can be closer to the community in the more widely distributed regions of the world so that a measure of activity and a wide range of work can exist there. I'm very interested that the committee can look at some suggestions in this direction to encourage those who come to the more scattered areas, whether during telecommunication or at local education, and then bring back the knowledge. The last point I'm going to discuss is my student's refund. I'm not just a little worried, I'm kind of worried about it, and I hope they'll be destroyed, either by reason or in discussion or by change, they'll come to light. My concern is that the loan on student loans is usually paid, or should be, 40 years, equal to payment and security. It's called in a student loan system for Iceland's mortgage loans and are loans that I think everyone today agrees that they're not good. They are not good in the sense that they are very transparent; students do not have much opportunity to know how the loans are, how payment will develop over the financial process. In fact, it is so complex that the Sectala Bank economists cannot tell us with sufficient certainty how inflation will develop. I will place tremendous emphasis on the work of the Committee to see if this is the right thing or whether we should make changes in it. We know that the maximum amount of loan you can take from this bill is 15 million. After all the work at the penitentiary, we learned that many people had insurance loans, which were only 15 million, 12 to 15 million, and people were in trouble with them. I'm going to be absolutely sure when I agree with these bills, and hopefully it will happen before we and the Minister of Education break in other ways before the election, that we can accept this. I want to be absolutely sure that we're not creating a system that makes it possible for young people or students to get into trouble paying it up in 10 years, 20 years, 30 years. The problem with the insurance policy is that we don't pay the insurance. Price insurance isn't really growing, it's an update on the head chair. When we update the throne for 40 years, we are past the time we make the highest income. Most earn most of them at 50 to 55 years of age and then earn a reduced income. The actual value of the loan is still the same, anyway, according to equal payment. Then I would think that after 55 years to 67 years of age, the weight of this is going to increase. They lose weight until they are 55 years old, then they gain weight. I'd also like to mention, if it's the right thing to do, because this has been about what I agree with, that once people have more money between their hands, they can borrow it without paying money. I say this in advance, I'm going to look at how it's going to deal with the fund, but it's a payment like in the prices of the mortgage so that when people have more than one hand, there's not some negative impulse to pay it up or to reduce the burden of it. A respectable president. This has been my main concern. Overall, I agree with this bill, and I like it very much. I hope a Senate can see its own way of finishing the case, because it really is a favor for most students and the learning community to call for it. If I understood the discussion just before, how else the funding and learning loan system would be opposed to child reform and growth reforms as well as to the same. So I've misunderstood the bill badly, and also good reviews from the student council and others of my age who have written about this bill, that child reforms and interest benefits do not impair student loans or what is being loaned or strengthened by the bill. I'd like to point out a good assessment or a good summary from a boy named Kristófer Már, who was published on the Rotr.is today. There's a considerable list according to position. It's even here. A student at a home, a single person in his own house, and then living together, registered, or not, and with children. How interesting it is to see the results for each group! It's not bad for those with children or those who live together, so I celebrate this bill and look forward to hearing further good talks here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine talk and would like to include only the discussion he started with about the so - called Icelandic loans or the 40 - year loans. The current learning loan system has very long loans, and it is insurmountable. In fact, they go down to the grave in the event of a switch. I'm happy if you can spot a better route than you can add with this loan plan, which, if it's possible, you know, you'll have to be open to it and completely normal to be discussed. I'd like to mention, though, that it can be accessed so that if they want to pay more quickly, they can set the time of the loan themselves. This is certainly a financial loan, but we know from the Icelandic economic environment that growthprosentan is on uncertain loans, so I would worry that if we had it in an unsecured environment, there would be sufficient equality for study. Then I'd like to name it as a dog. A senator wondered about the loan level. However, if we look at how large a proportion of students are borrowing less than 10 million, it is 93% of students and less than 15 million, that is only 2% above, 98% less than 15 million. Then there are 15 million loans and 3 million for the scholarship, 18 million, so the student's chief friend is in the range of 06.5 million. What we're doing with this arrangement is, in my fair more reasonable opinion, the strength of people who have been given very little strength so far, which is actually exactly the class that we would like to be more supportive and do through the student loan system in this way. [[The president calls.]] I think that's fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of education and culture for the counter-sponsored. As much as I'm willing to accept the loans, I just decided not to take it out of the table and downplay the work that's been put on this bill when there's no way anything better could be found. However, I wanted to mention those questions. I'm also worried that if we're going to have an unconvinced system where maybe there's an increase of three-three-three.5%, whether we were on a worse track there. And I agree with the highest. Minister and I can see on the bill that most people have at least 06.5 million on a student loan. Now that the strength reaches more than half of it because it seems to me that it would be, at least for me and for many people around me, an incentive to have a small part - time job, not to take a student loan at such a low amount, either to be on hand for the time you are studying, because it's not unusual, and/or to take a small extra job is a man in such a study that it is possible. I think it might be more encouraging, but we initially realized that we have a scholarship that could bridge the gap for a large group if not for the largest group.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u96	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator points out, the strength is unemployable, so working with them, and there are, of course, a large number of students who do, can bridge the gap. Again, of 25,000 students who are at a credit - based school, only a little over 10,000 are borrowing. I think it's going to be a big improvement and it can have a lot of effect. I'd like to remind you of something else, but we're opening up this bill so that those who are in the trade and to-dos and who have age can get this strength and will get that strength if they meet the requirements for study. I'm going to allow me to state that there are significant improvements and big steps we're taking there. Then I'd like to say that I find interesting, mentioned by the senator, and I'd like to justify that when we look at the interaction, when we look at child reforms, the co-ordinates, the strength, and then the loans that will be taken to the student into the existing progressive program, such as for a single parent with one or two children, the result is, if you look at the target, the point of development, this system will come out better. Of course, more loans can be borrowed and taken to the top, that is another position that is formed, but if you see them, what joy it must be that these individuals will be better out of respect for their reimbursement! [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u97	V.E.G. President. It's good to be a top dog. The Minister of Education and Culture said the strength is unaddressed. I have heard that the present system has been discouraging to find a powerful summer job and a lot of work, making money so that people can use it during the winter. The modern system has been discouraging, so the effects may be larger than we can see at first. I hope so, at least I have faith in the people around us. I agree with what the Minister says about the industry and engineering, myself being a professional. There is tremendous help in this and encouragement for students of trade to get into that system as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good talk, it's a pleasure to see a member of the executives participate. I think it's important. I think there's a lot of things in this bill that's cool, but then some comments have been made. One such force is equal to all. At first I thought it sounded pretty good, but if it really is at the expense of those who actually have to borrow because they'll pay a higher interest on me two masks. It is always a question of whether to direct Kingdom grants to those who do not need them. Then I'm thinking even to the point of debt that was an operation that was very displeasing to me. There are very different circumstances with students. As noted, people live in the country, but people too go, e.g. To Akureyri, University of Akureyri, to study, and to have to rent, and therefore to live in a situation far different from that of students living in a home and living on their parents. Of course, there are many of them. I've been wondering if the senator had any predictions that this strength could be used in another way, e.g. to put forth strong effort to cover expenses for study. In fact, we do not have an equal situation when some people have to go to school away from home, and in some cases we are talking about students who have been in their homes and who have been at a cost for the family. Is the senator satisfied that we are actually going to strengthen everyone no matter what their circumstances, whether they live in a home or rent, about the same amount, or does he somehow think he will just jump it up, even point this support especially in rent - rent settlements, unless rent costs will never be burdensome for those attending a university?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u99	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his meditation. My answer to this is: No, I think it's a very good system that's being thought up here. The pay on up to 85% of students will turn this down, so we're reaching 85% of students who'll pay less on loans or not. And then I don't know how it's gonna work in Pracian to pick out those who need it and don't need it. We've got school textbooks that we don't like, so if we pull someone out that the state thinks doesn't need, he may just have to start looking for work instead. I think it's very difficult. One of the things I like so much, the good things about this system is that it's transparent, it's more transparent than what's right now. My opinion is that we should not seek to complicate what we wanted to do as simple as possible. What students wanted to be simple is transparent and equal, that would not be the same for everyone. Rather, we should - now we will probably add some 2.3 billion extra into the system if 60% of those who were once on student loans grow stronger, possibly we should put more money or other measures to reach this population. A senator mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u100	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. If we had unlimited financial resources, this idea would be to strengthen everyone on a certain amount, really good. But we don't have unlimited funds. Therefore, we are actually raising loans to those who really need to borrow, e.g. People who study after having children or circumstances are just so they need to borrow. It is a question of whether it is justified in raising the cost. When I say, " How are we going to pick out those who need and don't need them? ' It is obvious that students in a rented market need help. It's crystal clear to me. It is not really difficult to pick them out, so I ask: " Wouldn't it be a good idea to subsidize or support much more those college students who have to be on rent while they are studying? I also state that it can be the best thing for Smokers to go north to Akureyri and rent there and study, and it's also something that expands their horizons, so that it should also be an incentive to leave home and to study abroad or abroad or anywhere else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u101	V.E.G. President. This is an interesting discussion. I'm gonna repeat what I said earlier, it's gonna help 85% better. Because of what? A senator specifically mentioned children to her to examine an article in the brambles that appeared this morning. It involves the individuals or the people who have children, and it doesn't make them worse out of what they need, so the system is playing together. I think as the discussion unfolds, there's more to come up and become clearer. I'm not so worried about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u102	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator before the talk, and I want to agree with what was said earlier, and I'm glad that a member of the management team is participating in the discussion because I think it's important, not just because it's fun to have them in the discussion, but because we need to get spread into this discussion, and that's why I think it's important to get a view that is important. In his excellent speech, a senator traced it. Hv. A senator said that he believed that what you get to borrow should be paid back. I agree with that, but I think we can wonder what the way is, i.e. how this happens and whether the way we use it in return is reasonable. I'll put a really big question mark on this, since the reimbursement will not be done in the current system. What I have even. Its concern is that this will have different effects on the sexes and that women will be exposed to it. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether he agrees with me in that it is important to have a good diagnosis of concern, that the system as it is installed in this bill will in time make women's status worse, and whether it must be handled specifically and changed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u103	V.E.G. President. I thank the Árnadóttir Þóra Ánardóttir this cheeky subject. My answer is: Of course, if we can clearly see that a group of people is badly affected by this proposal and this bill, we need to correct it. However, I have studied only in student council suggestions, and if I remember correctly, there is more to this advice for women, and the results aren't on the way for women to get hurt. Perhaps we need to talk about it further and try to find out more about it than after checking it out, at least they were concerned. Of course you should worry about this and look at it because I think about 70% of the students at the University of Iceland are women. If we look at this group specifically, we have a huge crowd underneath, so I think it's very good to have a discussion about this. I'll stop here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u104	Mr. President. I'd like to state that I haven't had a chance yet to study these maths from students. While it may be a mistake to look at the premise, in my mind it rhymes very badly, on the other hand, with the need to avoid or to stop earning money as we know it is the reward difference between the sexes, so if women are to have to pay more back, then women should have to pay more back, and later go to study in their lives, as simply shown on page. 40, reminds me that there is, in this leaflet, a weight of payment as people go to school later. You have to look at this very carefully, and I sure hope you will. A senator would like to cover these numbers well. But I'm not going to say in any way that a student council is wrong, I just haven't been able to study its calculations, but I feel that something must be missing in here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u105	V.E.G. President. Yeah, that's exactly what I think we should do, look at all the numbers, and cross all the groups, and take all the reviews and look at them. As for the remuneration that goes up, you come back on that prince back, at least by me, that you should pay back what you're going to borrow. If you're supposed to have paid back for 67 years, that's really what you say. I'm glad that when you start studying late, you have fewer years to pay off your loan. Then, about the inflatable system. That's fine in that way, so you'll pay for real estate. You always have the same amount of money, according to the economy at any given time. Maybe it's not bad, maybe we'll just take a deeper discussion about it on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u106	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize a student loan and a scholarship. One thing I think is that every nation should take a great deal of ambition to study is equal, and it's one of the cornerstones of every community that I think. Well, it hasn't always been here in Iceland, but maybe it's been a slow process. When I started to think about this subject, but since I'm not on the committee that gets the case, I may not have completely gotten into the bottom of the bill, but I've been following the discussion and looking at it through roughly, my uncle, Ólafur, Þ. late Þórðarson, former general, who was a great school principal and principal and spent a few years at a congregation meeting, came to mind. There is a headstone in Sufjörður, where he was born and grew up. A part of the sermon that he gave during the Council of the Year has been installed on that stone. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The greatest solution to the education of any country is to make a foolish decision so that it should depend on materials and reasons for continuing to pursue education. I take these words heartily and make them mine, for it is very dangerous if people are discriminated against from house to house and from income, but do not look primarily to be at the same table and to take advantage of their talents in the field where they are best used. Many things that appear in this bill are good, but other things make me feel more dangerous to think that there is really an equality to study. I think it is very important to request a detailed analysis of how the bill meets the students involved in income, age, gender, residence, and so on. For a long time, I have been concerned that people in the country are gradually being less able to pursue higher education or pursue further studies. The cost and cost of living and the need for families to uproot, thus contributing to the migration of the region. We know that parents often look at the situation and appreciate their children's progress toward university education, whether to support their children in high school and to move from the region where university education is a long way off and to move them either to the capital area, perhaps in some case, to Akureyri, where university education is also available. It shouldn't be like that. It should not be that people need to take root only because they want to keep home, perhaps not children, but their young ones when they go to high school to make it easier for them to support themselves at that time. We're offering new options, getting strength. It may look all right at first glance, but as we look at all this in context and see that the growth in student loans raises this much, you're really worried about how this is happening between those who need it. A large number of people need more help because of the high cost of living, as shown in the discussion of moving to the capital area and renting their homes to an expensive court. It is not necessarily possible to get into a more favorable building with students'building funds or the students' gardens. All of this makes it a big deal. I'm afraid things are beginning to develop toward a certain class distinction with the potential for study and inequities of the local population. It is not a good thing to do if we are to take pride in having everyone, away from home, income, and circumstances, able to make the best use of their talents and to educate themselves according to the subject of interest. It is also a reimbursement, not having her income - related, that the burden of payment is the same from which income is left after study. It's where I feel the need to establish a diagnosis of the bill against those who earn less money after a long college or university education. It has also been observed in the discussion that more often than not, it is women who have a lower salary after school. This adds up their pay load. So, then, do we not have to look at ourselves as adding to the burdens of low - income people, women, from abroad? I'm just tying it up like this. A lack of tea from a country that earns less money after study is not well, considering what this bill looks like. Are we putting aside a particular group of people in our society? Then you will not be looking at the person's abilities to benefit society by using his talents in the best way you can, but by looking into, I think, some excel-tail that the typical student should blend in. How's that an excel-tail? It is a student who lives in the capital area and has the potential to stay in a home house for as long as he chooses and pursues college from there and then receives this scholarship to 65 of yours. K. during a month and perhaps with the very little need to take a student loan with these higher interest rates being offered. Should we look at this as standard practice, that this will be appropriate for these typical people who go the straight way and have the chance to live a short time from university and house to house? I don't like it, and I'm afraid that there will be fewer students or people who will still do so, but they can't cope with the burden of payment each month. It has also been observed that people who attend to the capital area need to make a living in expensive rented homes and property. This is a big deal for people who are really working hard to support themselves and theirs, because often young people have brought children to this age. I also worry about what this shows about that if anyone has experienced that he has had to cancel a loan, there is no chance of borrowing again. I don't think it has to be that although circumstances have caused people to have been experiencing difficulties that have caused them to fail, I can't have a chance to get back into the system. There are so many reasons for doing so. People who have experienced losing their house because of some difficulty in getting into the banking system later if they meet a pay check and can try to get their feet back on track. Also, I think it's necessary to be with the people involved. Although there is a need for a firm grip on these things, I don't think it's a good idea that it's completely shutting down the possibility of getting back loans. It also shows that study aid is limited to 50 years of age. Why is that? Isn't it said that as long as you're alive? Isn't this modern society supposed to be such a person sitting at the same table as a person who is not in bed by age, who can start studying and get similar help and offers younger ones? I don't see why this separation should be and what its purpose is, because it does not necessarily mean that people who are 50 years old are so good that they don't need support if they lose, for example. Work and education are needed for other forms of employment. We know that it is not easy for people 50 years old to get into the job market if they have had to disappear for some reason, have been laid off because of making a living, or have lost their job for some other reason. The number of people 50 years of age and older has a lot of difficulty finding work, and the work market is just so that they have not necessarily invited these people. They may want to be more educated in the workforce than they need support, but this bill does not offer support. I'm not gonna tell you that bill is so bad. I hope there's a good deal of work to be done on the committee. But I think it's far from going well enough into the future if we have the ambition to want equality for study, and we want to educate our people away from our economic and home.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u107	A respectable president. I want to thank you for your talk. A senator asking about students who come from abroad because I heard it coming. A senator tore up women from abroad, students from abroad who are women, which the new system might not be fully beneficial. Then I'd like to hear from what. A senator could see any other system that would be more useful to students from abroad. As is the case today, students who need to study and those who do not need loans do not. It seems that there is a system with both the strength that students can obtain if they finish many units over a term and so borrow. I think there's a chance of that, like what happened. A senator tore earlier that students who live in the capital area are less borrowed. What does that mean? A senator that it will have for students who come out of the country, for those who have to move in order to study? It is now, for example. no large university core on the West, or in the Westland, actually Bifrost, but not on the West itself. It is a question of what you can do to meet students who will have to move to study, for if this is to be a social formula, such as the highest. A minister likes to mean it needs to be taken into account, right?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u108	Mr. President. I feel that there is a particular need to look at how people can be helped because of the housing cost of moving abroad to the capital area. More often than not, it is temporary. Of course, we hope that the country's settlement will remain as strong as it is that the people who come here in the capital area think of it as temporary during study, thinking of going back home or abroad, whether at the birth site or not, in order to strengthen it by their education and by any means similar. But it has to be, I think, something that strengthens people in a farm, because there's a lot of inconsistencies going on there. If we are actually talking about sitting at the same table, then we must come in some way strong at having a farm strength. Why could not be used by these 65 fars. K. for that purpose? Why are they being thrown away from their need, with full respect for all the young people living in the capital area that lives in their home, and can stay there as long as they want? Does it really need some tooth extraction of 65 pence? K.? Does the State need that support? Would they not be more supportive of contributing to study equality and to view our country as one country and one nation with the same opportunity?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u109	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. Now I want to change my mind. It's a possible source of resources for which the EU will be entitled. In Denmark this has caused some problems. I've got a report here from the Board of Directors and Directors, or the Ministry of Education and Insurance. It will clearly show that after the European Court's decision was passed on to the European Court that all EU citizens were entitled to the same attractions, the tax parties, if they were to do minimal work at a minimum of 10◯12 hours a week, the number of students increased by 43% in 2011-2015. The report also says that students will stay in Denmark simply because of the potential of earnings. So there seems to be a small mix between earnings and wanting to live somewhere. This naturally rhymes with what we were discussing back there. What I want to wonder about is what I want to do. A senator is whether Iceland needs to consider whether direct support is needed to make Iceland more attractive to the citizens of the European Economic Areas and whether and how state funds are going to survive. We can see that the expenses of the Danish budget are greatly improved when it comes to strengthening, although they are considerably more efficient in Denmark than in here. Then the question is, Is this enough to make people want to come to this country, and if a government fund is going to be able to live up to it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u110	Mr. President. You're right to think about this. We are members of the EEA and, of course, are expected to carry out the rule there. It's a matter of experience. A senator mentioned, elsewhere in the North. I don't necessarily worry that there's a wave of people here who come primarily because of these strengths and the potential for making a living. I'm not afraid there'll be a tsunami in that relationship. But I think it's perfectly normal to take this possibility into account on the cost analysis of the case as such, this bill. Of course, it's supposed to have every reserve in there. I want at the end of my speech to mention one thing that I never mentioned before in my speech, and that is about the possibility of changing a student's loan into a scholarship, as has been done in North Noregi. I feel that there is no need for a consideration of the possibility and motivation to do such things. It should be a real motivation to encourage educated people out of the country to go to work and be able to expand it similar to what is done in North Norway, so that there may be a possibility that a part of the student loan will fall down and become strong. It should be done more than lulling these 65 yous. K. all should be seen or not from the point of view. You can make much better use of that money in another way, that I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u111	V.E.G. President. We continue a discussion on bill for a school loan and a scholarship song. Well - educated people today are essential, as is one of the most important factors in the prosperity of communities. Therefore, it is important that all have the opportunity to educate themselves regardless of their economic situation, e.g. No matter how wealthy parents may be. This bill says it's a song we're talking about today in Article 1. to ensure that the goal is to ensure those who agree with these laws for study without regard to the economy. I've watched, listened to, and participated in the debate over the matter today, and as the discussion unfolds, I really doubt that the bill will achieve this goal. I'm going to review it in my speech how dangerous I think it is and also mention a point that I think is quite urgent. A top-of-the-art Board of Education looked at her work. You see, I'm worried that with the bill, if it's legal, it's being given the academic loan system away from the social role where people's circumstances for study are equal. Then I think it's important to say that it's not equal when the state pays everybody alike. However, as the State comes to make up for the difference, it is an understanding that settles people's opportunities. Inculcate means that people have the same opportunities away from different social situations. The bill suggests that all students receive a scholarship. In effect, this is done regardless of whether people needed loans or needed additional loans, but interest rates to students who need loans will increase from 1% to 2.5% plus stress, or to 3%. In addition, the loans immediately start to collect interest, not as they are now when a student finishes his studies. This should be turned away from credit - related income and the period of reimbursement. I'm gonna go over all this a little bit better. It has been said that by leaving the income relationship, it is not that it affects people's choice of study, since it is so that we need a community that is essential for people of many educational backgrounds, we also need people who work for us locally, even though they do not necessarily see a place in the pay. Of course, when the loans are not associated with the income, people must think twice and prefer to study that they earn. This is one of the things I think it's very important to be concerned with just what the social effects will be. It should also shorten the pay period, so that the pay load for those who later go to school will be higher than for younger students. I also worry about it and, in fact, the two things I've mentioned, especially when it comes to the position of the sexes and worries about women. I'm gonna go over it better. That I know it's been a great advantage to Icelandic society that people have been able to change their place by studying. People who have been released from studies early in life for some reason have been able to come back. Already the bioavailability of those 25 years of age and older has been limited to the college schools and by this bill I believe that it is harder for older ones to go to college, at least to those who need loans. I don't think it's good for a community that needs well- educated people. I don't think it's good for a society that's getting older, with average age rising, people getting up, and really not weird that they want to turn around and change later in life. I think we need to take into account people's wanting to study later. I especially worry that this will adversely affect or disintegrate the position of the sexes. I came in earlier that we no longer have income-fixed payments and e.g. has been mentioned that the carers we all know that there is a lack of staff, has already become and becomes even greater in the near future, are often women's classes, and are certainly not high paying classes, although you may hope that the pay will be raised. Here, I fear the load of payment will be difficult and that women mostly will be affected. The other is that according to the figures that just appear in the report that follows the bill, there are older women. It says, with the permission of a president: "In the course of 2014,2015, there are 62% of women borrowing and 13% of women over 35 years of age. 86 women over 50 years of age. However, men are only 38% in school, 8% over 35 years of age, and only 27 men over 50 years of age. Hence, reducing the pay period will have to have a different impact on the sex population. I've said it in my mind that I think it's extremely important. The General and Education Committee reviews this bill and has it done a full analysis of its impact on the sex status. There are other factors to consider on the bill. Hv. paritaprevir This evening Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir spoke earlier about the need to consider the evidence and how it differs from students who come from the country and those who come from the capital area. In his prehistory speech, he went to the highest. Minister to the key elements of the bill, listing a number of factors. The General and Education Committee should give particular consideration, points that have been presented in the reviews during the presentation of the Ministry and that he is prepared to consider. Actually, I think it's a good thing for me to do the highest. In the beginning, a minister says he is willing to consider these points. In fact, these were factors that led to the deferral of reimbursement and to the need to set aside time limits and to the need for changing time on loans to those attending a doctor's study. I think it's pretty good in itself and can be improved, but I still don't think that these are the most important things in the bill and not the most important of all, when it comes to securing the opportunity to study regardless of the economy. Although I really don't want to belittle these points, I just think that other factors are more important. As I said, we cannot equalize in the community by giving everyone the same amount but by creating equal opportunities in the community. I'm pretty afraid we won't do it with this bill. I think that's what. Hence, the Senate committee waited a lot of work and even a change of employment so that at least I would be ready to support the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u112	Mr. President. It's been interesting to be watching this bill for today. A lot of people have what they want. Councilmen described the basic concept of strengthening as part of the study aid system as we see it developing in Iceland. However, important questions and comments have been raised that I would like to address in my language, and I believe at least calls for a thorough inspection. The General and Education Committee for its treatment of the case. Here are some basic changes that are being made at the highest level. A minister studied in his background address, where there is a planned to divide the study aid system, so that the scholarship will be paid to students who meet the course of study and then students or students can take on extra loans. They're going to be bigger than on student loans in the modern world, they're now 1%. It is true that there is a law that has been higher than 1% long, and in fact, the decision was strongly opposed at the time because in the past the student loans grew 0%. Pays have been paid on these loans so far, but here they should be changed so that they will not be harvested. Of course, these fundamental changes require special attention to the different income groups as well as to those with different family circumstances. I mentioned before in answer to what I said. paritaprevir In this regard, Páll Árnason said that we especially need to consider the success of college students, and then I also mentioned the need to examine this from different influences on the sex. Hv. paritaprevir During his talk, Þóra's Árnadóttir, Steinna, explained that these changes may be very different from those of men and women based on their age distribution in studies and different branches and, of course, taking, because, as we know, there is an unexplained difference in pay between the sexes in society. Tea - related remunerations are based on a variety of incomes. These changes, e.g. Do women suffer very badly because they earn less money? I raised that question. I also wondered how this applies to children's families, as I mentioned earlier. As a result, parents who study with children borrow more because of their children, and as a result, their reimbursement is greater than that of those who do not have children before they start studying. I mentioned earlier in my objection that I think it's important that we watch this whole thing, and it's possible to say that an experiment is made by setting up a specific link to a purchase in the bill, but I think it's important that we look at this whole thing out of young people in Iceland and how we want to see it develop to the future. Then we need to consider what changes have been made to the growth reform system and the child - welfare system, where these improvements have been severely impaired in the past of the government and also the suggestions presented yesterday by government officials that young people can use the so - called special property force to pay for an apartment, but I now see that the proposal for making a very interesting response to young people around me who feel that it is primarily about maintenance of a special property policy that has been attributed to the suicide party but that does not come up with the real needs of young people who want to be moved, would not necessarily want to invest in concrete, want a good pension in the future, and want to have access to an inexcelation. These actions together, what was presented yesterday, this bill, children's improvement and interest - all of this raises questions about how the public provides support for young people in housing and when it comes to child - rearing, and when it comes to scholarship and student loans. I think there are some factors in this case that need to be taken a good look. First of all, it's the reimbursement. V.E.G. So when I asked him if he was not concerned that this would affect our choice of study, a minister answered that it had been identified by the Board of Education at the University of Iceland. We also have a review or an opinion, because the matter is not formally discussed, from the European Students abroad, who are deeply concerned with the development of cases for the students who attend abroad, the bill will be by law. It has sent out some kind of background because it reveals a lot of concern about reimbursement, in view of the fact that these are often the most highly borrowed students, and therefore this could be the most likely to suffer because often these people pay school fees in foreign schools but also because of the high cost of living there. The bill must be determined by the status of students abroad and by whether we are building obstacles to learning abroad, which we would like to do in our small country, that it makes it very important for people to study abroad and not confine themselves in our own country. That's a missing diagnosis. For the reimbursement, it is also important to analyze very carefully whether the methodology is not influenced by the selection of income. Let's just look at a few that have been under attack. I give thought as an example, language study in Iceland, which, though, should be one of the most important things people in such small languages can pursue, study in foreign languages that opens many doors to small countries like us. These are not high-paying classes, and this needs to be considered and the data cited here indicate that these people will not be affected by the change. These are people who also attend foreign studies. We do not want to build a study support system that changes the ability of people to follow their free will in the way they choose the study. I think there must be a key that we here in the chamber can agree on, that we don't want our actions to cause our education system to become more uniform, that people go to a more uniform college education. We want to make a wide range of choices in which people follow their free will but are not interested in making their own money after study. This should be carefully examined. I'd also like to mention a doctor's degree, and that was shown in a case of the highest degree. A minister in the beginning would have to consider specific matters of doctors' study and doctors. Of course, it would be most likely that we would have a system where doctors would be on pay, but it is not. Some of these are sponsors, but they vary from branch to branch. There is a wide variety of educational backgrounds in which some doctors often study doctors in a higher degree with instructors, their university graduates, who receive grant strength and doctors benefit, but we also have a very different culture in other fields of education, where people actually go to higher education in their own ways and pursue doctors through an independent study. I referred to it earlier in response to the Supreme Court. Minister we have, e.g. Look up at it in the field of ethic, about 17% received strength during the last medical discharge. While this is the case, it is impossible to judge the rights of these individuals. I'd be delighted if the Minister were to present a bill guaranteeing that doctors would be paid in secret. It would be a real dresser for graduates and an important step for research in the country, and it would be customary in many countries we compare with, such as the U.S. Other parts of the North. But it is not, and it needs to be revised. I've only been looking at the analysis quoted at the end of the bill from the council company Summer. A comparison between the old system and the new system is not simple, since the systems are very different. I agree with that after reading this analysis that it is really very difficult to compare these systems. But there are some things that I find interesting, e.g. how many uncertainty factors are listed in this analysis, including No matter how many students that don't borrow now, they'll be strengthened. The report shows that the student is likely to fail to receive a loan because he does not achieve minimal success. Is this sufficient when we look for ways that many may choose not to take a student's loan to avoid debt, choose to slow down their career, and even work with them in order to earn a living? It may well be that the group of people who fail to demonstrate a course according to the evidence quoted by Summa - and I expect it to be part of the bill's report, which quotes those who fail to study - will be able to take their studies at the right time if they can refrain from part - time work. This is a common situation for e.g. Home students who do part - time work to get money forward but who have the right to choose to receive strength from the State against finishing their education at the right speed, yes, this may be encouraging, but does that not upset the cost assessment of the bill? This needs to be checked, but, of course, it's hard to appreciate, except to call every university student and ask. Granted, this has not been done, although sometimes it may be thought of by the way spoken. There are various reasons for these issues that you may feel you need to explain considerably better. It's interesting to see in the analysis of the Summa of this gold sentence, I'd like to say: It may be a matter of the time. not everything important and the future is difficult to predict. I think this is a very sound requirement for this fine counseling company in its analysis, but I must insist on making it a requirement at the Icelandic Council that we both learn from the past and try to predict the future in the case of fundamental changes in how we want to support our students. What should be our objective? Of course, the goal must be to ensure that we always want everyone to study, that is, the social goals that should be fundamental to such a system, such as the study aid system or the credit system. We want to make sure that we have equal opportunities, the constant access to everyone to study, and then the fundamental question will be that all of them have the right to have the strength to complete a certain course of study, as those who need more money because of their circumstances, because they cannot live in their homes because they come to make up outside the country and have to rent their homes in the capital area, have to take additional loans with unregistered money and with higher interest. Then we must ask: How does this meet the goal of equality for study, which should be the key role of such a system? We must also ask what effect this may have had, which I mentioned earlier in college in Iceland and college. How does this affect the diversity of university and university education? How can this affect school? The head of the University of Iceland has been concerned about this viewpoint, and it has been very important to hear the views of the university so far around the council's treatment of these factors. In our small country, we simply cannot put more effort into education. It is very important, too, to see how this affects people's motivation to attend a foreign school that is not unnecessary in Iceland. It is of great concern to read the headline of the European Students abroad, where questions are raised about the status of students abroad. They look forward to the fact that this group will not be able to accept strength from the public. The group will always have to borrow with these elevated interest and indiscriminate payments. These are the goals to be kept in mind. There have also been questions that have been raised, e.g. of what? paritaprevir Take in Guðfún Helgadóttir as the highest. A minister had a word with him earlier today about a number of foreign students who might attend to the country. Although there was no particular problem or subject here, why? A senator assumes that this trend is striking in our neighboring countries. Of course, we need to examine it, especially in view of it, as the Supreme One. Ministers know that the university has made it their goal to become international competitive and increasingly a student offer in English or other foreign languages, regardless of how you feel about it. There is another completely unauthorized debate, but it may affect it if the study aid system is changed in this way. I could have since discussed the story a little more and the fundamental changes I'd like to see, but I've never thought that the government could afford, which would be changing this loan system into a system of computing. You may have to wait for a second discussion on this subject, but as I say, such fundamental changes require careful treatment on the part of the Generals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this story. I'd like to ask, where the dog is. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter was the self - educated minister of years before, during her last terms, that I feel that there is a little difference between the emphasis now being brought by the Ministry of Education compared to what she brought back at the time, especially the student movement's attitude now and four years ago. I'd like to know what it is. A senator whether this difference really is different, whether I am a misreader, or whether I am. A senator can confirm this difference, this change in student movement's attitude, that it seems here that the students are obviously supporting some system that prefers the most people in their homes and does not need to borrow, in which social situations they do not need to borrow. Is that something that was added to the Ministry of Education four, five years ago, or is this something new? Is that a new thought? Now I just want to be curious about the prehistoric whether this has a longer chance than this committee, set up at the Ministry of Education and Culture now before Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u114	Mr. President. Hv. A senator here reviews the bill for changing the law on the Icelandic Board of Education and Culture that I presented as Minister of Education and Culture in early 2013. Now I don't remember exactly when it was, what month it was, early in 2013. Then the election was over the spring, and then I gave it up just for fun, the reaction of the existing government opposition was that the case was all too big a change, though it was a few months in the election and at least two months after Congress, it was all too fundamental to be completed in just the same short period of time. Good if I don't remember many of the current things. The members of the Government Party, who came up here, expressed deep concern that the matter would not be reached, although all of them expressed support for the fundamental change in concept that was part of the student loans, i.e. the head seat of student loans, would turn into a scholarship. Then left at least Yeah. Since members of the current government class are very focused on a careful trial, it is good to remember when we discuss this matter that is being brought into this brief summer council. With regard to the student movement, it was easy. A senator specifically asks - she was not asking about this - were the students' movements, i.e. The representatives of SINE, the School of the University of Iceland, and other students, called to consult with the bill that assumed that a portion of student loans would turn into a scholarship after study if student requirements were fulfilled, so that there was only another thought in it. It was not expected that everyone would be given strength. Rather, those borrowing had the chance that a part of them would remind me of a quarter of them would change to strength after school. Of course, the idea was to encourage the growth of study, which I think is a common goal, so the learning movement came directly to the preparation of that bill in its own time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u115	A respectable president. I thank you for the answer, even if it was about something else in the beginning. I'd like to ask again if what. A senator believes that it is possible to complete such a major learning loan transformation system as planned. That's what we're talking about changing the loan time. We're putting in this same amount of loans, they're raising the growth rate by two percent, so we're going to find that this is going to be a much more basic change in how our loan system works. It is being removed from the social equation system that is not only to support itself during study but also to have the opportunity to pay as much as possible after study. I'm asking, " Isn't this something that needs to be developed more during the discussion? ' Is this not something that we need to consider even two members of the council? I don't think 14th Congress days are a good timeline to complete such a complete reexamination, especially since it doesn't seem to match what was set up by the last minister of education and culture. There does not seem to be a complete tone of what we want to do with our student loan system in Iceland, whether we want to have a direct strength in the form of subsidies or subsidies at the end of a study.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u116	Mr. President. I'd like to give another mention to my answer earlier, because of what. A senator mentioned a different reaction, that it was also part of the work that took place during the last term. We now see that the representative of the employee movement, e.g. The representatives of BHM have expressed great doubts about the suggested process as a result of changes in reimbursement. Of course, there are different viewpoints. We also found it at the time when these subjects thought that students had a different point than those who are then in their place in life to be paying back student loans. These are all the viewpoints that need to be considered. In my speech and answers today, I have said that I believe that the need to discern the impact of these changes is strong, to discern the impact of changes on income groups, subjects, changes in gender, i.e. Men and women, children and no children. All of this seems to me to be information that needs to be available before the Council can make a similar decision. I suppose I'm in a position similar to that of my friends who were then in a government position but now are in the government, but at the time there was a considerable longer time to go, that I'm very concerned that I might be able to finish this big case at this council, not because not all of us are willing to work here and contribute to the council, but we must call for such information. Otherwise, we're only stuck with the situation that senators need to be calling for legal information and that they just don't get any answers. I have mentioned, for example, that the report requested on October 15th of last year has not yet arrived, Mr. President, regarding the effect of the correction of macrographers on different income groups. It cannot be said that the council is getting information long after the legal process, or even they just can't get it at all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u117	V.E.G. President. I just want to get involved in 1st. on this matter, the bill for a student's loan and a scholarship. The loan fund of Icelandic students is one of the most important educational institutions in the country. WIN is designed to enable all regardless of the economy to study. There is no need for a wide variety of aspects of education for individuals and society. There are some things I want to kill on. Me and me in the United States agree with a prince that it's good to pick up a scholarship at the same time as student loans. Today, we're paying off a student loan, but it's way more than this bill does. It is also important to enable people to start studying only with their scholarship, and they do not have to borrow in their first few years of high school, even though it is also important that people be able to do so, which may allow people to borrow from basic education at a university. But then you start reading about the elected and member of the United States, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, who has made some good calculations that the payment on the loans is quick to eat up the benefits of strength so that for most people the results would be worse than the loan system we have today. I just wanted to call attention to the fact that makes it difficult to introduce it. Sweden has a comparable system, but there is only one. The bill shows that the loans, the loans you can borrow beyond your scholarship, are insured. It's special now that the advance team actually manages to create a new student loan system that is linked to the insurance policy, since it's the goal of the category to dissociate it, it's nice to point it out. But the loans are insurmountable, with 2.5% of interest as well as stress due to recent failures. If we say that inflation is at aim, maybe about 2.5%, the rate of growth is 2.5%, and the pressures due to recent failures - is 0.5%, is that 1%, is 0.2%? I don't know. The number of name fruits would then be 5,2◯6%. As the student loan system is examined in Sweden, student loans change each year, and in 2016, they become 0.6%, disloyal. This is a gigantian difference that reflects our natural problem with the currency, the Icelandic crown, as well as our economic instability for decades. There is no new truth that we have an unfavourable loan, and in Iceland we are burdened with heavy burdens because of the growth that comes with the Icelandic crown. I just thought it was time to point this out. We're not creating any North American system here because we have a growth standard that is completely incompatible. It's going to have to be a very serious study of the General and Education Committee. They need to be examined in places similar to those of the growth industry. That, of course, is the basis for borrowing costs, i.e. The interest rate. Then I want to make comments about the fact that the money is not being put in, it's not supposed to increase the support, it's supposed to be zeros. It seems to me that future generations should participate in the subsidies of older loans, so the turn-on generation that soon goes to college will pay off the debt of 68 generations and of our younger ones. She's supposed to be involved in paying that price. It's unnatural to give that generation that gift with a new student loan system, it's pretty sour that we put in it. It's just not working out. It's one of the things to look at. I'm not going to consider other aspects of my material content, in fact, it says that a study organized by a job is not helpful in the fund. It is not unusual for a person who has a job and wants to go to a school that is organized with a job to be just on his salary, but it is overlooked that the younger people in Iceland have a high level of employment security and are engaged in very work - related jobs and very unstable income. In fact, there is a lot of hidden unemployment among university students, especially in certain articles. People who don't have a steady job don't have a steady income. This, however, is quite common because job security is a persistent problem. Just the design of a study together with a job does not mean that a person has fixed monthly incomes. These are the circumstances in which students must make a big difference, not the educational organization of the alleged students. And I'd like to remind you that at the age of 67, I gave you a bill that says that I lost a student loan. Since loans are designed to increase the interest of individuals and people who are going out of a job market, have had relatively low income compared to academic investments, and have failed to pay off loans during their hours or careers, they also have relatively few pensions - they all see that being a pensioner and at the same time paying off loans goes very badly and is not normal. Then there is the responsible system. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason discussed earlier; the bill suggests that responsible ones will fail at 67 years of age. Then, of course, we must change the fact that they are not inheritable. It is disappointing that while making this bill, the apparent defects in the current system are not being addressed. I don't sit on a universal and educational committee, but I hope the committee looks at these comments on the interest rate, what is to do with the student loan system when we have such an unfavourable interest rate as compared to, e.g. Sweden, the amount of money to add to this so that the century generation does not have to carry expenses for the older and our futures into a new system, and whether changing the existing systems at the same time would be normal enough for us and those in it to cut down their academic loans at 67 years of age. And that the responsible system will be revised and the same type of study planned with a job is to be considered separately, since not everyone who goes to it is working hard. And then I wish the Commission a success in working on the bill, and again I agree with the idea behind it, but I don't think it's going up in this bill, and I don't think it's a bad idea for students for the future, but the present system does, and then it's better at home than it's started.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u118	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to say. A senator for the factor involved in reimbursement of the loan section, i.e. not the sponsorship, but, for those in need of loans need to pay them later, not on income - related payments, and with larger interest. I don't have much time to examine that diagnosis as the highest. At the beginning, a minister referred to the student council of the University of Iceland. Yet, it seems very quickly to me that this is in line with the average loan of students in a particular study course and later their average wage in life. These algorithms work out that almost everyone is better off being reimbursed in this system than the old one. Now I wonder if this is the right method for analysis when we consider how the changed refunds will come out of different groups. Then I'd like to ask you specifically why. A senator whether she doesn't consider it necessary, not just from these averages, but from how student loans are going to come down on different income groups, so that it can be evaluated how these things come out for different business groups in the community - where the labor - and how these are likely to come out in different ways from simple things such as the unexplained pay of the sex that are expected to affect the level of remuneration. At the latest, I would like to ask what effect this may have on children who are expected to borrow more at school, especially in view of the fact that we have seen some of the conversions for these groups in the past government. I'm giving you a breakdown in child reforms and interest improvements and new ideas about housing grants for young people. [[The president calls.]] I'd like a guess. A senator on these analyses.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u119	V.E.G. President. I agree that it is very important that these tests be performed. We know that a large number of people have advanced university education, especially women who receive pay that would not be remembered in any way under those loans. You might say that a discussion about this bill will clearly reveal how poor an investment can be in Iceland. It may be good for us to face up to the fact that we are developing more valuable employment policies and that we start to do jobs that are often called routine women's jobs, such as the work of nurses, hospital staff, who actually don't have a university degree but teachers, high school teachers, and start paying jobs in line with the values and investments of such jobs. A much better analysis of the impact of these differences must be made for different groups. They need to evaluate how this will affect people's will to learn in articles such as teaching and, for example, teaching. A nurse for whom there is a great lack of manpower in the years to come. So I agree with the senator. A much more precise balance of income has to be performed, and it certainly needs to take into account sex and the pay of the sexes. We want to destroy him, he's a reality. As long as it has not been eliminated, we need to make sure that we are not putting even more weight on women with the student's loan system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u120	Mr. President. Yeah, that's the view I have at least I don't see an article in the bill's report - I say it may be, but I can be corrected here. I haven't seen it. I've seen it in the report the Summer Advisory and I'm following with the bill. Also, I don't see that this gender variable is expected to be in the report I've only briefly examined from the student council, but it seems to me, as I said earlier, that, in view of the average salary of certain professions. As a result, there is an endogenous difference in salary between genders in those calculations, i.e. Because we know that this difference exists. As a result, women come out worse than men. I wondered, " How is this compatible with the declared targets on the sensory structure and sensory economy? ' True, despite our best intentions, we have seen such goals turned around in a Senate hall. Secretary of finance in that matter of controversial spring tax bill. I wondered if such an analysis is not needed because it is, of course, not enough to focus solely on average wage, some average out of certain professions. The rest is what it is. A senator entered in his reply, i.e. The offer of study and how this can affect it. She mentioned professions, nurses, and other things, but I also want to conduct subjects that may not have obvious national significance. I refer to meditation as an example, language articles, articles that may not necessarily be made with a high income after study but, nevertheless, have been the target of the university community. I wondered, " Is it not necessary to examine exactly how the bill affects the study offer in this high school country? ' It has been complained that too much self - determination is already being developed in all parts of the earth while others are being hit. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Could this still be a contributing factor?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u121	V.E.G. President. I agree with the concern that the science and even the social sciences that are important to communities will present a very sharp object. I think it's very serious, as well as a social scientist. And I'd also like to say that I think there are a lot of things we need to consider in this context as well. This is an example, the situation of those who are not paying fees, seems to be, from these accounts, but we also have in recent years - when I started college just before 1990, there was probably a higher level of effort in the university system than it was found that a lot of Icelanders went outside to study, so it was such a wide experience and a number of angles that came back from then on, but people in general weren't studying in Iceland with school fees. Now it has become so that people get lent, they are paid for the study themselves rather than for us as a community to attend college in the country. And then we're going to lend people a loan at a rate of 5 to 66%. It's an anti-human policy, I'd like to mean, and very adverse for a number of professions in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Now it's so bad. A senator is the chairman of a welfare committee. I've been more and more thinking about it when we're here making decisions that strongly address a large system that actually depends on people's social situation but never consult a welfare committee. This is a very large system that has the advantage of large groups of young people, and it is an essential part of how people choose or determine their habitat. Then it's comparing Iceland with the countries around us at least. This is a suggestion for an equation change in a community that attracts a very large group of people. In answer to the previous issue, the effect of the reimbursement and the fact that we have just seen a bill from the Government's special life savings, and it's actually made by the government's action to bring down almost a growth reform system, you have a lot of reason to believe that here is a fund with social equations on the side of various other measures to cause very dramatic changes in the ideals of young people, without the issue of any time to be discussed in the welfare committee, which is referred to as the term on the basis of the equation and incontroversion of society. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator will see if she sees the very presence of a welfare committee on this subject. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u123	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. Of course, on the welfare committee, we have the big forwarding systems, where the social security is, i.e. Pension pensions, disability pensions, unemployment insurance, and observatory pay. These are the alimony systems. And there's still one of the student's loans. So far, they've not been heard by us, and they haven't been on our own. Now this arrangement is being changed, but as I said, the loan fund of Icelandic students is one of the most important educational institutions in the country and has a natural home in the General and Education Committee. But it is not unusual that a World Health Committee and Education Committee can request that a health committee go to such an analysis, or just represent it itself, on the type of impact this has on different social groups, e.g. magazines are published by people whose homes, sex - based lives, age - related articles, how they are affected. And now there is another matter, because it seems to be the rivalry of this government to get people to stop having children, how this affects the children. Now there has been strength in Icelandic society that we have started to have children, and the learning loan system has enabled people to study despite their children to support themselves and their own. Thus, these analyses need to be performed. But I'm going to admit that I don't think a welfare committee really has to come to that, but we will, of course, respond to the price required. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u124	A respectable president. Basically, it has been agreed to run the Icelandic loan Fund. In fact, it was in the discussions about the bill of the so - called Sorcerer. In February 2013, Minister of Education, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, also said that there was a general basis for reconciliation when people discussed that there was a natural improvement in the efficiency of the system. It was completely off-limits. But it is so true that stories and concerns about this matter are voiced in the community, and then I might want to mention especially the concern caused by a university driver. A university driver believes that the foundation or ideological basis for the fund is in turmoil, i.e. The idea of the social equality of the Icelandic loan Fund, that the bill attacks the core. I'm not going to take a walk. A senator and a welfare committee by making the suggestion that the matter should go there. I just want to draw attention to the denaturity of the fund as a focus of social factors primarily on the factors as well as on the factors. A senator mentioned, the position of children in this context when we know that women who may be able to bring children in rather than men during studies, thus taking higher loans, may have longer study periods for the same reason, need to pay more money, are still unexplained with less pay, and are in a position that allows them to be exposed to sexual poverty for the responsibility of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u125	V.E.G. President. The credit fund of Icelandic students is indeed a social equation device and is designed to ensure that all are access to special education and university education regardless of the economy. There are many indications that this goal is severely threatened by the bill. And then I'm gonna say that I'm just gonna be suspicious of this government. She has tried to expand her personal development and seems to be the best public service in the hands of private but not the State. Now a private loan fund, a student loan fund. This too should be considered in this context. Are we entering the market area of this social equation? We in the United States don't agree with that. We believe that the loan fund of Icelandic students is still the social equation device it is. I think those who want to protect the goal should make a special examination of it in the committee, or should they eventually just undermine that institution and put it in the hands of private financial institutions? I wish for it at what. A senator sitting there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u126	Mr. President. I believe that current student loan legislation is, in many respects, one of Iceland's greater social laws and the law No. 72/1982 was then a very important step in building an equal society in Iceland and the subsequent development of this system for the previous decades that replaced the old educational systems and from the early issues of Iceland's University and the loan fund to students abroad. It eventually slipped into one continuous system, which, in effect, was completed in the current form of law 1982. Their access point of law is to ensure equality for study. It is then taking into account the circumstances of students in terms of the potential for income, family and expenses, whether they live at home or have to provide for their own housing, etc. At the other end, it has entered income - related payments and, in fact, earlier, in the 1960's, I think it started, and people get into a system where there is a fixed payment on loans, and on the other hand, an income - related addition which means the nature of the case, according to the fact that the loan is made much faster to the level of their income. This system is ideologically very good because it has the right exit point, to ensure equality for study, to balance circumstances, and it also gently distributes the payment rate when the study is completed and men begin reimbursed. This takes into account much of it, including increasing the potential for reimbursement. Of course, because of their spending three, five, eight years of their lives at work and thus spend an average of less on the job market than others, there are very different types of loans to him by means of the government. I don't know the problem where students borrow much more than they need. Students in general are quite well - educated, and they know that they are making commitments. I sometimes feel that the spirit soars over the lakes that it's a very special quality, that they get to borrow for themselves while they're working out, not just for their own good, but for the community of all. This is not to say that the arrangement as if it had changed since 1992, which can be debated whether everyone had been improved, should be completely unchanged. Of course, such legislation needs to develop in harmony with changing social conditions and attitudes. I'm sorry, I don't have a good feeling this is going the right way. Of course, it would be good to change the arrangement of the official support that is being introduced into the student loan system in the form that it needs to be added annually to half of the cost of the fund as a law, to change it from the existing arrangement. If you're not going to put any new money into the system, I'm having a bit of a problem understanding the lawsuit that everyone is making money anyway. It is usually that if not directly added to the support of the arrangement, someone else will pay. This should provide the full support from the public to a scholarship that is open to all, regardless of their circumstances. Probably everyone will take advantage of it. Who doesn't want 65,000 a month from the state? Instead, a lot of money gains on the loans of those who have to borrow and these 65,000 won't be enough. Then people can go into endless average calculations and say, on average, they come out gay. But look to the basics that this should be about, to provide equality for study. Let us look to him and ask ourselves, " What is also lost with the other arrangements? ' According to some, it is a relatively small group of students who take very long or even very expensive studies and who pay only a fraction of it back. It's all wrong. But does that mean that we just want to take it off? Is that the default? Is it so that to some extent, we need to have the ability to have the ability to do some advanced, even expensive study and to be supported in high school, where we are studying very well and where we need well - educated professionals but may not be able to offer it at home? I have to say, just as it is, if you're going to make some changes in the form of this government's contribution to this kind of natural payment, you're going to start by asking, "How are you going to do that? " It's all right. It's all right. It has generally been a well - meaning way to consider that this support would have to be adjusted to some extent from loans and in growing funds to direct donations. But who will receive them? All tied? And thus sink completely on human circumstances, whether as regards the potential for income or the social status of children, etc. No, people in that situation should only borrow the loan, but everyone can get the scholarship evenly. Why isn't this reversed? Why do we not start with the strengthening power of single parents? Why do we not begin to strengthen students of the country and of others who cannot take advantage of their parents'home while they are studying? Why do we not start by taking aside the strength needed to reduce the load of student loans for those who, for example, may result in a loss of money. are you going to the country with your education and work for five years or more? We can define that area. It may be the areas of the highest transport policy as defined by the Agency, that a university educated man going west to the furrow or northeast corner, where he works for five years, will be granted the right to a degree of the loan's capital. First of all, I think it's wrong, too, to turn it into a scholarship at the same time. Then it would be much better to change a part of the loan's head when you're done with it, and before you start paying for it, a more intelligent approach for reasons I don't think I need to explain. Everyone must see that there are many problems that can be avoided, such as when things fail after a full scholarship has been made, and the conclusion will not be what men in general wanted. In effect, I would also have wanted to use another concept other than strength. What about a student's salary? What about changing our thinking and saying to some extent that we will pay certain wages to all who study at that time? That's more of a good idea to me. Of course, it would be best for us to use only social interests but to stop talking about benefits everywhere. Why don't people get community pay if they don't have power to work and they're desperate? Why do we not have that salary so that when they are in school, they can immediately begin to pay for their pensions, with the same status as their retirement status regardless of whether they were desperate or students in the part of their life or for the rest of their lives in the first instance? We would solve a lot of problems with that. In that case, it is not free to create a so - called scholarship for all regardless of the circumstances and the need for them. I see very little socialism in it, very little consistent policy. Then it's time for a short shot. There's supposed to be 3% interest on a student loan. Where are students today? What was that when, first of all, a student's loan was insured? They got a real mess, and when they put 1% of the interest on student loans, everything was on fire. Now it seems to me that some students are celebrating the rate of 3% on a student loan. I just don't get it. So I'll get to the last thing that's supposed to happen, after the loans start, all the criteria for income. When you start paying, your balanced thinking and thinking are wiped out on both sides. It's a free-free bill, that's all. I don't feel like talking about this without a trace of it. I went to the University of Iceland when the Law No. 72/1982 set. I remember well what went on and the battle that students took for certain princes there and, fortunately, had won most of the way. At that time, the advance was increased to 100% from 85% in which she had been in. Finally, it became clear that the situation in this regard was comparable to that of men who could have a decent life, even though they were setting aside their time to study and would not immediately go to the job market. For this, the fight was fought, and we made port. On the other hand, I remember so much, and I know. And this is not a time to cancel the insurance policy. No, she's not leaving very well. Where's the advance? This, of course, is insurmountable in compartments and floors with 3% interest or even more if the government's rates of borrowing were to be reduced. Well, the state might accept it all, well, but it's not just a little trial, I have to say. I don't think it's gonna work, but I think it's going to diminish the income-based reimbursement. Why can it not remain so independent of the rest? It's totally independent. Humans can treat the rest completely as they please, i.e. bring some part of the support into a scholarship that, of course, should be made entirely different, as I believe I have reasoned, to use them in part as a standard delivery device, as might be just as adjusted by some of the financial resources of the fund with some of the income-related payments. There is only a new account example of how to adjust it to make zero for expenses for the scholarships. There is nothing to say that the remunerations need to be flat and independent of income. This, in my opinion, still reduces a person's reliance on a long study, knowing that he or she may get rather low in his pay pocket after he does. We need such people. We are to encourage it, for no matter what the rules of payment are, now is the motivation for materialism in the opposite direction. I think this is just an incredible short look about how we can continue to encourage young people who not only have money in their eyes and want to rush through high school and college as high school as possible. The Minister of Education wants, at double speed, to try to get into the best possible pay. You see, we need people who study for other reasons because they have an ideal for and burn it, and they want to learn in a particular field or they want to do their part in a particular field, scientific research and academic work, professional management, and so forth. These people often know that there is not necessarily a high salary to be a teacher somewhere in the academic community or anything like that. I believe with this double motivation, in fact, that to scare people away from such studies, we are especially going in the wrong direction. The benefits of the present system, though it certainly has faults, are many, including some. and especially those who have been able to indulge in advanced education, master's and doctor's studies abroad, even in some of the best schools in the world, and pay for their schools. We've drawn people from various angles to this system of ours because they have been standing people east of the sea and west, and we've reduced the vast cultural and educational background of many classes in the country. It is often referred to as an architect because its products are so visible to human eyes, which is true of a wide range of classes. I can take science, geology if it were changing, from which people have come home from education from all sides, east of the ocean and west. That's the way it needs to be. I'm totally convinced, and I don't believe that I'm going to be able to handle this case, and there's nothing I can do about it. Surely no man can think of, Mr. President, and certainly not the two of us, to be able to take such a big step in such a big case in a matter in a few days, so I rejoice that men will discuss it and look at it and then just let it rest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u127	President knows why. A senator can endure only those last words, and he just wants to say: "This is where each man speaks for himself. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a vigorous speech, to say no more. Where it is. A senator has been watching the development of Icelandic students longer than I have ever been, and I would like to ask him a few questions, especially when it comes to school expenses. A report or report made by the analysing company Summing a review of the LIN law and analysis of a new and old system shows that in the present system, there are $3.73 billion school expenditures. K. student in the old system 1 billion. K. As a result, the student is never paying too much for school expenses. It seems that Iceland is a small country, and we can't do what others can, have a wide variety of studies. Sometimes we simply have to go to school, and at times we may have to pay school fees. In turn, every student in Iceland who goes to the University of Iceland, University of Akureyri, and in other places also costs a small amount of money so that I don't think we're helping the students who have to go to school, students who have to pay their bills, who need and want to pay them back on their own. There are also other articles, such as music and thought - provoking, with high school fees but students don't have much money to pay after school. So we don't have them, for example. trying to pay them to study? I think school fees are most relevant to students who go to school.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u129	Mr. President. I haven't been able to examine all the calculations as good as any. A senator testifies, I know that she has become quite read in the papers around this case, but I suppose this is the average cost for the graduates, 3.7 million, and then 1 million is back in the current system. And then there'll be something else in the other system. The fees, yes, of course, are most likely to be among those who are going to further studies, master's and doctor's studies, and are about to pursue higher education in areas that are not available at home or valid at least. for picking himself up from abroad. In my speech, I emphasized that it is very important to maintain the quality of the system that it is possible. I think we need it. That's one of the findings. Actually, I thought I heard the highest. Education minister directly admitted today that there were certain factors, e.g. in the context of a doctor's study, which might be a reason to take a better look into the stitches and see how it should be handled. There are also timeliness and roofs that need to be realized and to discern whether they are going to have a complete deal with them. This is about what I have to say about this and my attitude which is involved. I think there's supposed to be some way to keep the flexibility in the system. These possibilities need to be open, that's obvious. We need it for so many reasons, for the renewal and diversity, and for the development that is going on here and there. We're supposed to watch this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u130	A respectable president. How important it is that the loan fund of Icelandic students maintain the ideal set out to begin with that it is a social equation to contribute to the opportunities for a balanced study that they would like to pursue! That is why the post office that has been prepared for the Ministry reports that in the old system and a new system, it does not appear to be a complete picture. Sometimes it is said that it seems that people will benefit from borrowing in the new system, but sometimes in the old system. Now it's a bit of a game to talk, especially since we're changing to the level of a certain interest that has, in fact, been a source of strength so far because people can never finish paying off their loans. I wondered if the loan fund will not come out in plus this way because it says here that the growth difference in the old system is really negative, but it has suddenly become positive in the new system we are discussing. Then I ask: Is it any effect on the social value the loan fund of Icelandic students when the growth difference is positive? Are we talking about the social equation fund set up if the student actually pays back the strength he has in the form of interest?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u131	Mr. President. No, I kind of feel like it fell under a table on both sides of the case, as I tried to explain in my speech. I feel that people lose sight of the basics of this matter, which are involved in securing equality for study. To accomplish this, you need to balance the circumstances in which people live, the potential for income, family composition, and so forth. It is in nature. They're trying to do it today. On the other side comes the income - related payments and, of course, subsidies of the wax, in which much of the government goes on, that the loans, however, bear only 1% interest; they are insured. For many, paying 1% interest is just enough on top of insurance. They do not start repaying until two years after the study is completed. Now I understand that we're going to pay it right after one year, and that's with 3% interest. Let's go over the story. First, credit rates are secure, but with 0% interest, it is long before they start paying off until three years after study. They lie without interest, and the capital is not being paid back until three years after study. The next step is to make it one percent interest under high protests in 1992. The growth rate to 3% is now to be taken at the expense of a flat scholarship to all, regardless of the circumstances. Is it not possible, then, to say what I have said, to think that the equal thought is numb on both sides of the case? There's nothing left of her, really. That's how I approach it, and there's a lot to it. The Holy Grail of this case is equal for study. It is the Holy Grail that must never be betrayed in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u132	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. As he himself said, he spoke without a word of speech, and that's fine, for this case will have a great impact if it becomes legal in this suit. It's a liberal bill, I can agree with that. Although the basic thought, the basic concept of moving the system closer to what is in the North, the output is just so that it doesn't happen in any way. Thank you for your history tour. I was at the university when the changes were made in 1991, and learning loans began to grow. In the past, the interest paid to the community for the wealth of well - educated people. It caused a great deal of confusion and protest. But students may want to say, in defense that, of course, they are looking at their ideals in the study. That's what they're up to, the situations they're dealing with today. It is for others who have experience with reimbursement in these systems to point out the weaknesses there. I think as soon as a student council learns better the consequences it'll change its mind, I hope they know. Then I'd also like to step on the rate of growth that is rising dramatically, by up to 2 percentage points, if not more, and by the means of interest rates and insurance from loans, instead of starting to lie down after the bond is closed at the end of study. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What is the result of the senator's thinking that this will be?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u133	Madam President. I understand very well that many students who can only see that there is suddenly a bill where they can get 65 of yours. K. During a month of scholarship, it is generally exciting. Who doesn't understand? I think we can all have a clear understanding of that. During this period of life, what will occur after 10 years or 20 years may not be so much to wonder. I'm sorry, but I'm afraid that a lot of people are going to see as soon as possible that it was a very expensive price to buy. Our role here is, first of all, to look at the basic Princes in the matter and what to protect; equality to study and social equality in that subject, and to take special note of those who need good support. We've got primarily, or at least I've got us. the main point of this question is: Where are the groups of students who will present a distinct object, and who especially need support? There are those with the most extreme conditions, the most difficult social conditions, there are single mothers, there are those who have limited means of earning money on health or family grounds. They are the ones who will not be able to take their studies from their home, from their parents, or from where they live. I'm going to protect them, even though it means that the deep things of the public students won't be happy about what I say. It doesn't matter to me. It doesn't matter to me. I'm going to look at what is supposed to be the hallmark of this system, to ensure equality for study in Iceland, and that there is a socially reasonable system that reduces social status and loyalty as any option is equal to the potential and equal opportunity for this very important aspect of life that it is learning. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u134	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm going to say that we equals are in favor of general support, as usual, for example. Regarding the child reform system in the North countries where society is involved in helping families to raise children without losing their income and that there will be less difference between income-counting regulations regardless of the number of children. We also support general education, sharing in the community, that people can support themselves when they are studying, and that they are not the adults who depend on financial contributions from their parents, and that they do not have to work too much at the cost of study. This does not change, for then we must take into account the different need for support. It is not only part of the economy but also the location of people living in the country. Neither can all live with their parents beyond their years. We can say that in the capital area, people can live at home until they are perhaps 21, 22, but young people living in places where education is not possible. We also want people to go to a university where they want to attend but not to a certain place. I ask if the senator, who is of the national district, is not concerned about the status of young people in the country compared to young people in the capital area or in Akureyri. [[The president calls.]] There is enough difference, though, right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u135	Madam President. Yes, I have, and I mentioned it in my speech if people decide to give some of the support they are doing today, the subsidized interest, and the fact that the loans are of 40 years, and the payments are linked that some do not pay off all their loans, they take long and expensive courses, and then they don't pay very much after the job market has arrived. Five, six, eight, even 10, 12 years later, but many others go to the job market are certainly a little off the loans. If you decide to transfer any part of this official support into the system into direct strength or pay, there is no basis to do so in some way that you can achieve the equation goal on that side through how it is implemented, e.g. equality of living conditions. Many have to go far from home for study. There is considerable evidence that there is absolutely nothing available, not even telecommunications or in any way, to attend a university degree of loan or other loan - at least one or two places in the country, and not to be offered for long - term studies. What, then, is to be done? You have to pick up and live elsewhere, with the cost involved. This can be leveled if there is one available in the system. But this is not the way people can get it, that's for sure. Of course, many social equations involve the income - related cities. It is in nature. Now, of course, those who have to borrow a lot of money and borrow because of the child's contribution will become more debt, and they will pay it all for themselves if they make good money and repay their student loans fully. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But if they end up at a lower salary, they'll sort it out in part. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u136	A respectable president. I wish the Minister of Education would return to the hall, where neither was he here the last time I was going to talk to him. But it's okay. I wanted to use most of my second speech to attract the attention of a body of Congress at this fair, apparently from Summer, a law review on LIN and an analysis of a new and old system. An interesting point is presented here, especially on the comparison of the old system and its new system. There are many uncertainty factors, especially whether certain students who do not now borrow will only take on strength or if people will continue to make similar use of loans and support. What's a little strange about this analysis, especially since it was prepared for and is one of the Ministry's basic data, is that there is clearly not enough to be evaluated. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ It is likely that a large proportion of those who fail to accept a loan are not entitled to it because of lack of education. They're just speculations and exactly no support for them. As far as I can see, there does not seem to be any evidence to support this claim. Similarly, I can't see that there is a interest cost in the pictures that both follow the bill and are in this beautiful show of the cornea, but the interest costs at 6.3 million. K. A loan in the old system with 1% interest is 1.3 million. In the new system that is being suggested, the rate of interest is 2.7 million if we borrow 3.76 million with 3% interest for 40 years. So there are many things that need to be considered. On the other hand, I would like to draw special attention to the cornea, which is called strength relative to the length of study and the type of payment. It simply says, by permission of the president: ▪ Comparison of different deposit options for the old and new system compared to the 500 of you. K. your weight at 30 years. 1st If school fees are lent, the old system's strength will be higher after about 2.5 years of study. 2. If only money is lent for alimony, the old system will have greater strength after about 5 years. 3. If nothing was lent to an old system, there's more strength in a new system. How students spread is the key to the cost of a new system according to an old system. I can't see that this change is necessarily for the benefit of students. It seems to me that this cornea is actually showing that students get more strength out of the old system than they do the new system. It seems that because of the high rate of growth in the new system, we are creating some level of value, which are actually paid back in the form of interest costs. For 40 years, the rate of growth is thus such a burden. If we are talking about loans of 7 million, which are not uncommon if people go to school for five years and even have to take some loans, and if we pay 1% interest for 40 years, it will cost about 1.5 million while there are 5 million if we make 3% interest for 40 years. So there we see a fundamental change in student loans. And student loans are supposed to be an equation. The learning bar is supposed to be the strength. We need to make sure that the study loan goes to those who need it and that it is reasonable for those who need it. I'm placing a big question mark on this bill and on this approach to sponsoring Icelandic students. It is true that they have almost had to evict death. It's not that long since I had to. I don't see any special advantage in this arrangement unless, in that respect, it would have been nice to get 65 of you. K. ... ata time, maybe I'dhavebeentwisted to move out a little earlier. But it wasn't until I got the Erasmus scholarship from the European Union that I finally got away from home. We need to do something about this huge improvement. I don't think this bill is gonna fix Icelandic students' problems today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u137	Mr. President. We've been discussing the ultimate case. The Minister of Education and Culture on student loans and scholarship today, and it seems to me on the rosary that the discussion has finally come to an end. This is one of the issues that do not resolve during the discussion but that increase the subject's questions and doubts grow. Regarding the political situation, I would like to say: This is a matter of Congress that does not seem to be in harmony with the objective. This is a matter of Congress, which is contrary to the vision presented in Article 1. The bill, which it says, by permission of the President: ▪ The aim of these laws is to ensure those who agree with these laws for study without regard to the economy. True, it is a consistent theme of the current law on the credit card of Icelandic students, so it may be a few moments of pity when they fail to build this bill in an independent way to set up a goal in harmony with the bill. As we have discussed the matter in detail with a number of members of both government and government positions, this situation is growing so that it directly violates the idea of equality for study. It depends on both, as stated, the object involved in reimbursement of the loans in which there is no regard for the economic status of the borrowers but on the contrary to the loss of the revenue. This means that the loan fund of Icelandic students, Education Ministers, the state, is saying that we have no record of what position you are in or how you are able to repay these loans because we're going to watch this as a financial agency, not as a trust fund in social equality. At the other end, it is this way when we talk about the loan and the support, the strength, as has rightly been pointed out in the discussion, that it would be closer to maintaining the scholarship and having the credit section at all times. BHM has pointed out that it was so much normal because we're talking about a contribution from a common fund. It is in the spirit that we employ money from a common fund that we make it equal. True, it was certainly done, not in the much correction, but in this flat, cold manner that is not of concern to people's social status. In view of all that has been discussed and the genuine failure to do so. The minister of education makes it clear that the matter is bad, that is, to increase in equality, and now that we are approaching the election, it has no place to become legal under the present circumstances. This is simply a political and material reality. This is natural in view of the fact that here is a minister of education, who has been digested by the political sector, by a government that has lost faith, a historical government in which ministers have taken the lead in the cause of scandalism, not just one but more, that the matter is so true that it does not really go beyond the treatment of Congress, but that it is given reviews to bring forward the views that have been presented here repeatedly in controversies and concerns outside the community. It'll be good, it's improving. It's a good thing this case gets to work. The General and Education Committee and there will be a careful discussion. The government that succeeded in the election in 2013, the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollon, then the highest. Prime Minister, is out of the way. She left behind one of the biggest scandals that Icelandic politics have faced. She left off under such unusual circumstances that the same has hardly been seen in Icelandic politics. Then came a new government, the government of Sigurður, the son of Jóhannsson, a government that immediately took place when she intended a short time for her work. She immediately declared herself in the position that the commission of the ruling parties had been submerged. The commission of the Independence Party and the Subcommittee's commission was swelling, the highest commission. The minister of education and culture of the Illugi son of Gunnarsson had also become restless. All right, it's up and down from the milestones of April. When the Ministers, the Secretary of finance, and the new Prime Minister, announced elections in the fall that did not arrive at a date until these days, no cases have been taken from the Council in a different way than in a tripolitic agreement, with a transpheric period of reputable government opposition that has sat at the table in good faith before the council, for the nation, and led to the outcome of one big thing after another. We have led to the completion of new alien laws, new interstellar laws, housing problems that were neglected by a social minister, but were held by the responsible way of all classes, especially those of government opposition, patient payment laws, various laws that were to be shared, all in solidarity. Why? Because political conditions in society were in a way unacceptable to something other than the fact that this was really a national government in the country. No one was authorized to run through or to finish with the majority power. No one's ever tried, and neither will anyone try for these elections. It's unnatural in view of the political situation, that's unnatural in the light of the political office of Education Minister, that's unnatural in the light of the political position of the Iceland government, and that's abnormal in view of the fact that we've been running for elections and the government's actually done business. All right, let's get some reviews on this subject, but bill for student loans and scholarships overlayed. The intellectual and cultural minister of Illugi Gunnarsson will not be legal at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. Councilmen for the discussion that has been conducted here tonight and today. I think it was a matter of business. There are various views that have been tore up, and I believe that the matter has done quite well in the discussion and that its main points have been presented in a practical way. I don't have to reiterate what I said in my background or have said in a conversation in objections, but I want to point out and deny that what's going on here is the modified loans, basically. In this regard, it may be that the vast majority of students taking student loans, 85% of them, will be in that position running the bill and becoming the law that I really hope to become the subsidies of student loans. I think it's really important. I also refer to the calculations given to the University of Iceland that are very careful and, in fact, I'd like to say that it's a pleasure to see how serious the students have taken this case and put forth enormous effort to analyze it. I find it very difficult to find a group that has more interest in the accurate understanding of this bill and the consequences. I once again refer to the calculations and coverages that have arrived where I believe very objectively. So I would like to call attention to one of the things that have not been discussed. The strengthening system, which could be compared in some respects to paying for study, i.e. a student who receives a salary for the student will also be available for high school students in trade and to-dos. It's gonna be important and, in my opinion, is one of the biggest operations in order to increase interest and access to industry and education, a project we've been talking about for years and decades without achieving any significant results. I believe this is a very important matter of interest, not just for students, but for society all. And because this is a study option and the result of these changes in the student loan system, I want to admit that there is a misunderstanding based on the belief that if a large group of students are in a position after school, paying off on student loans will be reduced, and the payment rate will be more adequate, there will be no way to reduce learning options. But by thus supporting the industry and the engineering beyond what has been done so far, I believe that it will have a profound impact on the overall education of students in Iceland. Similarly, the possibility that students could postpone, i.e. It is possible to postpone payment on the basis of apartment purchases for about five years. I think it would be a great relief when it comes to the first purchase of apartments to put off some of the payments for five years, thus making it easier for those who are going to their first purchases and whose back loan makes it easier for them to go through payment, for example. There are other factors that we may not have discussed today that need to be discussed. Committee, 2nd. and then through the 3rd. and then when we make arrangements, we end up in votes. I think that there is plenty of time to finish it, and I am not entirely convinced of or agree with the suggested information. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir set up or agrees with her understanding of the council or the composition of the council. It's just another matter, and we'll talk about it later. A respectable president. Once again, I thank you for this discussion. I think it was very helpful and interesting, and I look forward to sharing in the discussion until the matter is resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u139	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the law of surgeons and public health, No. 41/? 2007, with subsequent changes (the public health fund). The nominee comes from a major health committee. The committee has discussed the matter, reviewed the comments received, and visited several guests. The name of the committee lies on the roof. 1344. The objective of the bill is to contribute to the transparency of government funds on distribution, to promote public health and prevention. The bill suggests that instead of the government of public health funds, it is in the custody of a health minister to decide for distribution strengthens the fund to promote professional skills and control public health funds. Changes are proposed to govern the public health system, so that the number of rulers is reduced from seven to three. Critics focus on the plans in the bill to reduce the number of directors from seven to three and most sources want to remain in the same state. It was then established that the wide range of cross-cutting connections with the funds contained in the present arrangement will be reduced. It was also found to be critical that the bill assumed that a minister had custody over distribution is a trust rather than a government of public health. The committee discussed the matter somewhat, but the majority do not suggest a change in the bill. The majority, however, state that it is important for the government of public health to consult a field physician's professional advice before offering a proposal to a minister for funding. Sets a greater proportion of the committee to be in the Minister's Regulation, as recommended in Article 2 of Article 1. 1st par. The bill, shall be prioritised by the Management Board's prior consultation with the Precinct. As we have seen, the goal of the bill is to contribute to the transparency of public funds in terms of distribution to public health and prevention. Until 2011, the General Fundament Committee was assigned to strengthen members, partners, and individuals of the body of funds. This system was changed in preparation of budgets for 2012 to ensure the transparent management of applications for government funds, and since then the Department of Health, now health Minister, has been strengthened, including: to the health and prophylaxis of the environment. Clearly, it is often the same or similar work as the public health fund, and it is an assessment of a greater part of the Committee that there is a lack of the transparency targeted by the change in 2012. Therefore, the bill is intended to prevent candidates from being given the same projects both by means of a collection of financial and public health funds and thus by increasing the transparency of the expansion. They are designed to simplify and enhance effectiveness in the handling and dispensing of applications by reducing the number of public health funds from seven to three. According to the above, a greater proportion of the committee contributes to the continuation of the bill. Under the headings of Ásmundur Friðriksson, Lady Anna Sævarsdóttir Á. Andersen, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and Unnur, the Brá of Konráðsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u140	President. I'm not going in this counter to discuss the subject of the bill or the opinion of the committee that I feel is insane, so I'm going to ask the president to put me on the rosary for a talk afterwards. It won't be too long, though, I can promise, but I wanted to ask you what. One authority to see if she knows the proportions in this. It seems to me in the financial bill that the public health fund is up to 245 million. How high are these museum teams? I know the speaker, what? A member of the committee's leading authority, so it may well be a subtle question, but if she was aware of the proportions between the museums, the senator shakes his head, so I just thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u141	A respectable president. Thank you. Bjarnadóttir I'm afraid I can't answer the question, since I participated in only part of the Commission's discussion and is here, as noted, in the prehistoric case of Ásmundur Friðriksson. I hope they could be informed of this, to form when a vote takes place.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u142	Madam President. I recommend a committee party we're on, the smaller part of a welfare committee. In addition to signed publications, this representative of the bright future, euphemism. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson, and representative of the left movement ◯ green supply, why. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra the Year's Árnadóttir. In the memory of the section, we'll review information from a professional surgeon's advice on public health and their concern that a professional assessment of applications will be reduced by changing the administration order and reducing the management staff from seven to three. Thus, the Council will not have a representative in the management board of the fund, which should provide counseling to the minister of distribution and we believe it is unnatural that the arrangement that has been clearly broken up by this group. Of course, there are a lot of people who go to this fund. People's health is wide, many communities and schools are applying, and they need a broad range of professional knowledge and insight into different aspects of public health. The bill shows that making decisions about strength on a narrow foundation are less likely to take into account what is at the top of each issue at any given time. Then we think it's totally unnatural to turn away from the course we set here during the last term, to try to move it into a professional fund as far as possible. Some are in the hands of a minister who could not come out of the council sooner than there was a public health fund there, and it was totally unnatural to take funds from a government fund of these parties and put them in the hands of a minister who is to make these decisions on the basis of the counsel of three men. It's 245 million, as shown here in the case of my fellow party sister. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, which I allow myself to assert is far beyond what is already being provided for public health from a minister. Then it would be natural to get a public health fund to arrange also for the money he has, and if a minister mistrusts the government of a public health fund in the way that the bill implies, go down to the issue and not take this money from there and put it upon a minister. If something goes wrong with those committees, funds, and institutions that we have established, it may not always be the answer to laying them down, but it may be necessary to consider what is needed to correct them. At the very least, we had no arguments with the committee, who were convincing to support this change. We don't support this bill at the highest. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u143	President. I keep silent in this matter to describe both my amazement and the shock of this arrangement. As indicated by the Commission's list of parts, and so on in the bill, it was until 2011, by the permission of a president, the General Fundament Committee sponsors members, organizations, and individuals of the museums, to the members of the budget, to the branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses. This arrangement was changed in preparation of budget for 2012 to ensure translucency of applications for state funds. Since then, the welfare minister has had something and then this public health fund. A respectable president. I think I'm right when I say it was under control. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, chairman of the legal committee, made up of this change. It had been made previously, and I recall that at the beginning of the election season 2009 in2013, new members of the council made a great deal of emphasis on how this would be changed because it was proved to be the case, so that on the other hand, the budgeting committees spent a long time talking to individuals in charge of funds, committees, or members of some organisations and members who applied for funding and then were also discussed on professional committees and members of Parliaments who were spreading and distributed here and a million. This was proved to be both old - fashioned and out - of - date. It is not in harmony with modern government that politicians are assigning orbits here and there. After something had been said about it both at the Assembly Hall, and a financial committee was able to get the budget of 2012 to the point that it would be removed. Then some museum teams were created, and depending on decisions on how to handle them. In some places, funds are like a literature fund or something, and the government is the one that suggests something about the minister and so forth. To be there with a public health fund of 245 million and to move it over to the minister so that a political minister can replace them with a fund in addition to some museum he has, and as mentioned, we have no information about it here and now how much these amount is high, it's ancient, and it's shocking, and I'm surprised to say that men are involved. Now, I don't talk about the reporters who make a review of this bill protesting, general, I don't have exactly who it is, but seven professionals, what they call the reviews that all protest. We're not going to listen to this, we're going to move it over to the Minister because it's more transparent. Why in the world do people simply not get an overview of what is distributed from this public health fund, and the minister can guide it, or he can get money or move it into the fund, where professional people are assigned to do this rather than make politicalpiths? A respectable president. I'm both shocked and surprised that it's here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u144	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a national security proposal for a bill. The committee has dealt with the matter, and the council knows it well. We had a lot of discussions about national security policy last spring, and we got the results that I believe were quite significant and appreciated for the council to achieve a good solidarity over policy. This certainly did not mean much work for many people. That work was brought back at the time of trouble. paritaprevir Bjarnadóttir's daughter, who led a group of senators who began looking for guidance in the difficult task of meeting for national security policies in Iceland. A few years ago, however, someone had concluded that it would be a long way to settle the matter by just one body of Congress to sit by and then on the basis of their attitude toward the Atlantic Alliance, NATO, who is known and noted and had to face it from the beginning. Of course, they had nothing but consistent in doing so. Other than that, great peace was achieved with the important document, and thanks to it. I thank everyone who came to that. Of course, that work was also at its height. former minister of state, Össur Skarphéðinsson and Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, and, in time, new chief. Secretary of State, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdóttir. Following that work, a national security bill was submitted, i.e. The order of the council that would follow this course and be responsible for its being carried out in accordance with the broad solidarity achieved in the matter. V.E.G. The minister of state then recommended the bill for treatment. A foreign press committee that has discussed the matter and was contacted by Jörundur Valtýsson and Axel Nikulásson from the Ministry of State. Though not that much time. More time was involved in discussing the matter with the State Department officials than with the Commission in discussing the common will of all members of the council to ensure that the Council and its orders were similar to that of the Council I mentioned earlier. As stated by the bill, it is proposed to set up a National Security Council that has the responsibility to monitor the implementation of Iceland national security policy in accordance with the Council's resolution and to become the meeting point necessary for national security. In addition to this, the Council is appointed to evaluate the state and prospects of safety and protection, discuss other national security issues, contribute to the review of national security policies and to the use of open and democratic debates on national security and the development of education and information on the issues in cooperation with the university community, interests and the media, as such. As I told you earlier, the greatest time for the Committee to discuss the order I would like to explain. The reason why they should wake up. The Foreign Affairs Commission, in full consultation with the highest level. Secretary of State, stressed that this National Security Council would reflect the will of the Council to work on these matters in the best way possible, that the greatest time for the Council of Congress was therefore to discuss whether it was not normal to increase and improve the elevation of the Council of State to the Council of Safety. For the most part, that was discussed. The bill states that the Council would place prime minister, secretary of state, secretary of state, the Ministry of State, the Ministry of the Council, the Marshal, and the director of the National Recontinent. This took a break. The Foreign Affairs Committee and felt that there would have to be a remedy to ensure that the Council would be more intensive, as I said earlier, but the committee also concluded that the representatives of the public defences in the country, representatives of the independent parties who were coming to the decision-making programs, security programs, etc. were also required to arrive. Hence, after a considerable discussion, the committee concluded that it was reasonable for a representative of the land cover to take place, and it is proposed to change accordingly. Regarding the presence of the Generals, the Commission considers it very important, and it is the focus of our change, that it is in accordance with the Council's emphasis on national security policy and the agreement that it made it possible for the council itself to represent in the National Security Council, as is the case not only government representatives, including the members of a greater body of Congress, but also the members of a more powerful assembly, including those who do not serve in the government. The committee thinks it is very important, and we believe it is a big thing, that equality is being kept in such a system. Hence, we suggest that two members of the council come and one of them comes from a series of government groups and one comes from the other not. This order ensures that both members of the council and members of the less part of the council are not part of the council. The rights of this committee ensures the direct and unopposed access of the Generals to the important issues that will be discussed. I would like to assume that there was some discussion at the Committee's meetings whether or not it should be placed in these adjustment proposals that these members from the council, i.e. Councilmen, who came from the State Department of State, concluded, after a considerable discussion, that it was not reasonable, but the Party might want to appoint some specialist or member of a potential committee other than a foreign legal committee. Hence, we did not want to tie the hands of the councils in it. There was also talk of confidence in the meetings of the National Security Council. That's for sure in 7th C.E. The bill that confided in the state of what happens at the National Security Council. The committee points out that not all of the staff's tasks are necessary or are to rule in full confidence. It is expected that meetings will be filled regularly and that there will be no need for any special or emergency in order for such meetings to be conducted. Therefore, the Committee considers that the nature of the case may be the basis for the meeting of the National Security Council to include information that may be useful and accessible. That's why. The State Department of Foreign Affairs to make the adjustment that a trusted State is required only if it is thought to be necessary. Thus, the Council may decide that a trusted state for a special meeting or individual matter will be held at the meeting, as there is clear evidence to that effect. This will make sure that the decision to take into account each case is valid or not, but the principle is that confidential matters are not to be taken into account. Third, the committee discussed some of the penalties presented in the bill. In 1 1. The bill tells us that anyone, as it is said, who is deliberately or grossly unscrupulous, would give false information to the National Security Council as long as three years of imprisonment. Two. it provides a less severe penalty for violating other laws and regulations that may be supported by the law, i.e. fines or prisons up to two years. The reason why they should wake up. This is the will of the Committee of State, and I believe it is the will of the entire legislatator that legal rights are clear and direct and meets the regulations of the Constitution on the ambiguousness of criminal law. We found ourselves in the long discussion we handled that this situation might be resolved. Hence, we make adjustments and see that it is important to have the authority to prepare the right information and not to ignore the fact that the work of the Council is being carried out on the basic principles of national security. Yes, misinformation can damage and threaten security. The Law must be clear, though. What exactly is meant by the deliberate or gross failure of the National Security Council must be made clear to us. Therefore, the committee in this context points to 142 st. The penalties of wrong conduct are required for up to four years of imprisonment if the case is reported to be false in court but does not protect the false cause being considered less punished, i.e. fines or up to one year's imprisonment. So the commission suggests that in order to provide false information to the National Security Council, information to threaten national security or to create a threat to security is needed. A comparable standard, and to that end, this work was taken up by the Committee, and the 120th chapter is being conducted. Is It Wrong to Revenge? No. 19/190, referred to in comments to the regulations. This ensures that the wrong information that does not have national security does not involve the responsibility of the law. With reference to Article 1. Sixty-niner. The constitution is suggested to remove this directive from the bill's terms, as well as the proposal for 2 mg. This law will be set out only when confidential matters involving national security are breached according to Article 7. The changes made by the committee to the confidential matters of the bill need to be determined each time if confidentiality applies to a meeting or to a specific part of the program. The nature of the matter will be the issues of confidentiality that threaten national security if it is made public. It is important that appropriate treatments be given to such offenses and that the committee considers fines and that up to two years in prison meets them fully. With all of this taken up, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st Instead of 2nd issue 1st. Section 3. If there are two new lawsuits, as follows: The governor, the governor of the National Guard, and the representative of the National Guard shall remain in the council. There are two members of the council, and one member of the Parliament shall be made up of a member of the council, which appoints more part in the council than the other of the council. 2. Instead of the words, religion prevails over what is happening in its discovery in the 7th C.E. By arriving, the meeting may be held by a secretary or a special meeting for the meeting. 3. At 1 1. a. Following the word "missing " in 1st. visit: a threat to national security or a threat to national security. b. 2 mg. put it this way: Anyone who breaks his faith according to 7th par. and express confidential information that threatens national security should be brought under fines or imprisonments up to two years, as there is no greater penalty against them under any other law. Under these words, June 1, 2016, the one that stands here, the chairman and executive of this program, Karl Garðarsson, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Frosti Sigurjónsson, Elín Hirst, Otttr Proppé, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir, and Össur Skarphéðinsson, the son of chief man. State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u145	V.E.G. President. I come up here to ask about something I made up to talk to cover 1st. ... aboutthiscase. Then I strongly suggested that the National Security Council also serve as a governor. This situation is clearly in place, as indicated by the change in proposals, by people who work to protect themselves from threats or threats. That's why I'm very happy that the National Rescue Council is in here because it's probably very good if there's a natural problem. But I'm going to say that I don't feel that outside threats and threats are manned in the National Security Council and that I want them to point out the nature of the customs manager or his employees. We all know every day of the year, 24 hours a day on the Iceland border. His mission is to keep track of all the shipments coming here, whether large or small, and with passengers coming to the country. To that end, the customs manager has tools that have benefited us in the past. I think it's more dangerous now than it used in the past that this ratio of matter and/or weapons might be used in Iceland to commit terrorism on a large or small scale. That's why I'm asking. A senator and a front guide why the customs manager does not sit in the National Security Council, as I requested at the time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u146	A respectable president. As for the customs manager, it went as I told the committee before a great time to discuss whether there is a reason to increase the figure. The conclusion was that we wanted to do so, but we were careful. We add two more members of this group, we also add one member from Landsbourg, whom we consider important because of our public role. In addition, Article 3. that government officials and other government officials are obliged to attend a meeting if desired. They were supposed to put their arms around a very large group. Many other officials, so as to keep it, were referred to as a surgeon, a D.A., individual sheriffs, not just marshals, and some other officials other than the results, and we can discuss and debate about it, became this, also because there are many ministers in this group and the Ministry Ministers, who are all in some way the superiors of this body. I can argue in this relationship, but I also agree that others will follow the discussion about other officials who lived there, such as a surgeon and others who were considered important to come in. After a long discussion, the Commission concluded that this was the case with success. I'm warning you otherwise, not that I completely understand the argument, I know exactly what to do. A senator may agree in many ways that this could refer to a definition of many other officials in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u147	V.E.G. President. Granted, there may be other officials who might be involved. However, I do not think that they are doing anything similar to the customs manager. Because the surgeon is mentioned, of course, it is likely because he would be called in if any such disaster was imminent or suspected. But then I'm also going to point out where it is likely that such material will be transmitted to Iceland. It's through a border with customs surveillance. I want to wait. The chairman and chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee for the reinstatement of the committee between 2 and 3. I'm prepared to appear before the committee and say things that I can't say in this hearing why I believe the customs manager has to sit in the National Security Council. I could explain it better than here. But I say again, The Tollman is our border guard, and he's on the watch every day of the year, to keep him from entering the country ratio, weapons, people we don't consider desirable to be here. That's why I'm gonna pray. A senator and, as one says, would like to do it again on a discussion of the Committee between 2 and 3. Because I'd rather not have to make some adjustment to the case I thought I wouldn't have to do it when I spoke about it to 1st. Therefore, I did not follow the case more closely at the time, either to the chairman or to other members of the committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u148	A respectable president. I'm righting my opinion, but of course I'm convinced that a Foreign Affairs Committee is prepared to hold a meeting and discuss this matter if it's the will of the council. Nothing wrong with going over it again. But I still make up what I said earlier and ask the senator to show just as much understanding that the findings of the committee were like this. We achieved a solid solidarity, as I read earlier. All members of Congress signed the committee opinion. A lot of them pretty bad. The delegates at that table would have liked to have more members of the council, more officials, more members, and offered very good reasons for many of them and associated it with, for example. particularly the focus of the national security policy at work at the council, which was linking it not only to defense and military matters but also to certain issues related to another kind of disaster. There was very good evidence that members of the council were to be consulted. But we agreed on this conclusion at the end. If I show the senator and the council an understanding of taking this case one more time on a foreign matter committee, I'll ask too. A senator to show the conclusion that this discussion may lead to respect and reasonableness because I think it can apply to this fine official as well as to so many others that they can be called in needed circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u149	Madam President. We'll talk to the 2nd. An opinion with a national security proposal. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir so finely covered in his introduction to the committee's opinion that this bill relates directly to a special national security policy adopted in spring at the General Assembly. When the National Security Policy came to a vote at the General Assembly, we supported in the left movement the changes made to national security policy, all of which led to the loss of the Icelandic national security policy and looked to many and varied factors that could compromise the security of one nation. So I'd like to mention some example of nature, epidemics and food security, as well as to say that Iceland and Iceland are at peace with nuclear government, taking into account international commitments in an effort to promote disarmament and peace in Iceland. That is what had long been one of our struggles in VG. From the beginning of all our work on national security policy, however, we had a representative of the left movement ◯ green movement in support of our movement that we consider the safety of Iceland to be the best safe haven outside any military alliance, and we want the defence agreement against the United States since 1951. That is why we could not support a national security policy that went in the opposite direction and therefore sat by the end of the case but supported all the adjustments. I think it's important to review this information when discussing the National Security Council. Well, it's direct. That's even. recommended in Article 11. National security policy that the National Security Council will be set up by special laws. The 1st. I was, and to others in the VG criticism of the bill as it looked to them and did not consider it to be in harmony with national security policies, with the changes they had made in the council that had been added to such factors as climate change, financial and economic security, natural disasters, food security, health security, and epidemics, to name, but it was still largely based on military issues. We criticized this and offered some suggestions for improvement. The most fun thing is to say that there is no problem. A foreign press committee concluded that these comments were taken into account. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir was reviewing these factors, such as increasing the availability of civilian agents to the National Security Council. This was done by adding a representative of the country's survival so that he could remain a permanent member of the council. We talked it over to a great improvement. Like a snooze. There was also much discussion about this, and there were a number of references. I would like to present a surgeon in that country whom I believe could have been fully considered as a man of the National Security Council, and there are various reasons for that. But the landing became, and we agreed that it would be a representative of the Landsaver. That too had been mentioned in 1st. that the council should have a place in the council. The committee concluded that there would be two members of the council, from both the greater part and the smaller part of each period. Then we suggest that the arrangement for confidentiality be turned away from what was suggested in the original bill, i.e. That it is not the usual thing to believe in what is going on and what happens to the National Security Council, it is the contrary, the principle is that confidentiality is not important. This also made it clear what wood laws could be used if misinformed information is given. The committee also suggests adjustments. That is because of the way we dealt with 1st of our criticism. ... Isignthisname......................................................................................................... Hv. A foreign - language committee agreed on how the matter might appear. Of course, it would have seemed different to me if I had been allowed to do this alone, but it wasn't so good. But with the evidence that the criticism was accepted, and the situation is much better and better, if these adjustments were made. State Department approved, I am ready to take my name on the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u150	V.E.G. President. I'm here to recommend a committee party from whence. Economic and Business Committee on bill to legalize financial legislation, No. 161/2002, with subsequent changes, involving your own money, probe and assessment process, scale, authority, etc. It's a spell for the nominee. 1521. The committee discussed a number of cases, and a number of reviews and members of the Ministry met with them. News came from SEC, the Union of Icelandic savings, financial institutions, Perlon Protection, and the Federal Bank of Iceland. I'm here, a respectable president, to account for the content of the bill and the additional proposals for the articles of the bill at any given moment. The Economic and Business Committee proposes. The proposed changes. A committee suggests that you can find articles on the subject. 1522. The bill aims to adapt Icelandic legislation to the Basel III standard and to the new CRR/CRD IV protocol, so called, from the European Union. The CRR/CRD IV Regulation consists of Directive 2013/36 and Regulation (EU) No 37/2010: 575/2013. The bill on this subject is the second step toward implementing the Basel III facility to react to the weaknesses revealed following the global financial collapse. The first step in adaptation in Icelandic law to teach regulations was taken last year with an approved bill that became the law of No. 57/2015, about a change in law No. 161/2002, about a financial firm, with subsequent changes. The changes proposed in the bill are almost all based on the above-mentioned financial and financial directives and the above-mentioned precautionary requirement for the activities of loans and investment companies. In particular, changes in definitions, employment licenses, founding of financial companies and information responsibilities, financial sources, maximum active holdings, loans, stocks and restrictions on high-risk commitments are proposed. A change is made in the business of employees of financial companies. The switch is then submitted to the X section on free funds and own funds and on the XII. section on standard monitoring and monitoring based on kits, on XIV. the section on the wood and XVI. section on incorporation of regulations on scale ratios in Icelandic correctly. In addition to already attributed to the exploratory and assessments process called the SREP process, which is added to the IX. the part of the law. Part of the criticism presented in general reviews that I previously withdrew on the bill and the introduction of the directive involved in this series. that the purpose of the bill is to introduce part of the CRR principle but according to Article 7. The European Economic Area Convention, as per law No. 2/1993, on the European Economic Area, the Regulation shall be implemented as a whole into the verbal code. In this context, the Commission points out that the process of implementing this Regulation will be carried out in whole and wordly on the basis of 117th. g. a Track No. 161/2002, about a financial firm. Directive 2013 and EU Regulation No. 575/2013 has not yet been recorded in the EEA Convention, but this is explained by the development of the European Commission Regulation for the establishment of the new European Commission monitoring organisations published in 2010 as yet has not been adopted in the EEA Convention. In the Directive and in the Regulation of this Regulation, you will find a provision for the European Bank Control Agency, EBA, a authority authority, but the regulations of the types which provide this authority would not be implemented in Icelandic rights according to this bill. This committee calls attention to the existence of a synonym's proposal for confirmation of the determination of the joint EEA Committee on the change of IX. The addition of the EEA Convention to financial services and the European budget for financial monitoring to be found on decks. 1109, with the proposed solution to the administrative problems that have prevented the implementation of EU Regulations on the establishment of new European monitoring institutions. In this context, the Court's committee rests on the understanding presented in a committee article on a bill that became the law of No. 57/2015 and relies on the fact that, despite the lack of control-based assessments, the role of the European Commission's joint monitoring organisations in terms of the EFTA-station of the EEA Convention has not yet been resolved, the Council of 2013/36 and the Regulation No. 575/2013 is not yet adopted in the EEA Convention, if it is the desire of the Icelandic government to provide financial legislation at all times in line with the minimum requirements set out by the European Union on the internal market, and that the Icelandic legislation and rules in this field reflect the rules in the neighboring countries of Iceland at one time. On the part of the Commission it is held that by the correct course proposed in the bill, there is no comment on the role of the European Commission's joint monitoring agencies or the EFTA management centre for financial markets. Its implementation and whether this is in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution is an independent solution subject to the General Assembly in the above Parliamentary Directive. Also, the Court calls on the opinion previously expressed that the introduction of foreign policy on financial markets is always necessary to take care of caution measures and to consider specific circumstances in Iceland. A respectable president. The Committee discussed the situation of my financial companies in Iceland and in relation to larger financial companies, where there is a difference in system hazard. Among other things, a comment was made that in the bill there is a discussion of increased authority and monitoring procedures without seeing how such measures can affect the working conditions and costs of smaller financial companies and their ability to provide services for clients, including those on the job and the cost of smaller financial companies. in the country. These views were specifically examined by the Committee, and it points out that the proposed protocol for the exploratory and assessments process and the authority given on the basis of it was established in the Basel II standard, published in 2004. These rules were first introduced here in 2006,2008 and are now presented in 97,◯110. par. The CRD IV directive. The bill suggests that there is a law-based protocol for the exploratory and assessments and the authority on the basis of it. The Commission believes that by the enforcing of regulations and obligations in the law, there is greater clarity and transparency in the application of the regulations of the Rapporteur's activities and that the duties of a financial enterprise are clearly established in this process. The Commission also stresses that there will be protection at the introduction of a distinction between large, systematicly important enterprises and smaller financial companies, so that financial contributions do not weigh less financial companies more than necessary. According to the information given to the committee, it is a requirement for self-imbursement that was legalized by law No. 57/2015, who have had the most difficult to attend, especially to respond to increased demands in such a short time. Despite financial contributions, no. 57/2015 has been given time to meet the protection requirements according to 84 st. in the meantime, a decision has been made to enable system-risk fluctuations and auto-authorized funds to meet the requirements of 1% fluctuation balance supplies from the next year onwards and by 3% of personal contributions for the system risk up in step-by-steps over the next two years. This was not the case when the law was agreed in last summer and therefore it was difficult for smaller companies to deal with this. The Commission points out that the CRD IV directive allows the EU to give financial companies the opportunity to adapt in their national rights to make up their own budgets. This document was partly new last summer by law No. 57/2015 with regard to protection. Thus, the CRD IV directive has sufficient permission to provide financial resources to adapt to new financial requirements. Thus, the Commission feels that having agreed with the Ministry inconsistencies to provide further adjustments in the balance balance of up-to-date assistance or financial support because of the system risk, the purpose of self-informed funds is to respond to a particular situation at any given time. The Commission, however, feels that there is room for less financial costs to meet the demand for 2.5% of protection supplies and that less financial companies will be given additional years to meet that requirement. The Commission suggests that at the bill there will be added a new provisional directive which will allow extra space to be provided in the implementation of Article 84.g. One about protection supplies. The articles available in the bill made some changes in the activities of the Committee, and they are the changes in a special document with all the changes proposed by the committee to the available articles of the bill, which I refer to until the end of time. 1522. There's a crack in it. A economic and business committee for further suggestions on changing the law, as well as the changes listed above. 1522 adds several additional changes to the law in accordance with indications that were shown during the progress of the case. In the 17th. a The law is about an updated commitment file. A review of the case pointed out that the concomitant change in the term use of the law to the 23rd number 1st. 1st par. The bill and a new term, a ◯ protocol, into the 20th figures of 1st. 1st par. It would have to make a change of 17. a law about an updated commitment file. The bill suggests a change in the definition of the accelerator linking to the 23rd number 1 mg. 1st par. With that change, a reference to cooperation reads from the definition of the link between ◯. So changed the term does not reach a particular veneer, e.g. Partners, but the term "Subjects" which is defined in number 20 is 1.mg. 1st par. The bill should establish this connection. The committee believes that the same 17th paragraph is clear. a will cause certain non-committal partners to fall apart, but it must be considered important to connect partners, e.g. to a commitment log. Does the committee feel that it is important to prevent a void from forming and thus suggest a change of 17. a. 117 str. b The legislation is about the introduction of technical projects and technical monitoring standards in Icelandic dishes. The commission was made payable to the Commission by law No. 57/2015, on the change in financial law, was obliged to set rules based on technical implementation and the European Commission monitoring centres. From the law's sentence on such rules, technical details have been discovered that could be corrected in the bill on the subject. There is a point related to technical standards that have to do with privacy and internal financial models. The current 2 mg should be explained. and 3 mg. 117 st. b Acting on financial enterprises in terms of the obligation of the FESI to set up regulations relating to the financial capital and its specific risk factors is required to adopt all technical standards that concern financial resources and internal financial models. The committee agrees with the opinion that it is appropriate to make clear about this point and therefore suggest that the changes are made. 16th degree. The law's being reviewed on Accounting and 54th. The law is a matter of government. A memo published by the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs states that the current law, i.e. The 5th issue of the 1st issue. Section 16. The law is a source of authority to set up a regulation on the operation of internal reviews. There was a tip that included... the need to check whether the Regulation should be changed so that, instead of a warrant for enforcing a Regulation, there would be a warrant for the Commission to set rules. The Ministry consulted this indication and pointed out that in recent years there had been an increase in the increase in the number of regulations, but the number of regulations was rising. This is most likely explained by international changes, including those that have occurred. on the European Union scene with the development of new financial monitoring agencies, but the institutions have recently been given the authority to set technical projects, indicators and guidelines for the work in the Member States. With reference to the above views, the Commission suggests that, instead of a Regulation, a rule warrant is available for the UNECE in Article 16. The law to set rules for internal review. The same views apply to the management principle of financial companies and are therefore also suggested to provide additional authority on the quality of the internal management practices of financial companies in 54 C.E. The law. I've considered the general subject of the bill. Regarding the changes made in the available articles of the bill, I referred to threshing. 1522 where these adjustments are carefully discussed and reported. In addition, I have reported on the additional proposals proposed by the committee. From the ready point of view, the committee received a memo from the Ministry two additional technical proposals, as it were. On the one hand, it's the wrong reference on the bill and I'm redirecting it. 1522, which contains a set of adjustments, says in the 16 words: 'Rather than ◯5. the figure "C" is equal to 32 points. Come on, page 6. However, it is a suggestion for the bill that is related to the changes proposed in the bill and can be found in the above modified document in the number 6 and then expressed: ▪ After P-E-T-T. 15, par. If a new letter comes, as follows: Instead of the word "students" and "men in close proximity" to him, in the 3rd issue of 2 mg. comes: the person and close to his family members and associates in close contact with them. That's what it's got. The Economic and Business Committee will take care of these improvements. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson was away from the hearing. In view of the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the proposed changes in a special budget. 1522. Under the committee's opinion, publications are written in the following languages. Councilmen: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, chairman of this matter, and ruler of this matter, Sigurjónsson the son of Sigri, the son of Sigurion. Economic and Business Committee, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Sigríður Á. Andersen, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Braunr Níelsson's son, and whisk. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, who writes in advance the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u151	Madam President. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson son of Thor, prominent of the committee opinion, I sign it in advance. As noted in the case of the committee, the model does not follow the commission that covered the matter well and tried to meet the situation, for example. A senator, the circumstances in this country with our small community and our small financial firms. I'll specifically mention the savings fund that sent a review, and I'll be a little worried about the introduction of this rule. Such comments were tried to be made to some extent, but of course, the frame is narrow. My proposal for this matter leads to the directive that is being introduced as a European directive, as we know, and is about what has been called Basel III. It tries to learn from the financial breakdown by altering, reevaluating, and reevaluating financial activities in the European Economic Areas. However, it does not help that when you observe this discussion and listen, for example. in the fine speech of both. A senator who spoke before, which was very technical and may not be understandable to all who, though generally want to observe a national talk, that you begin to consider the very essence of this principle, and whether it serves the real purpose it is designed to serve. Of course, we know that the financial system has become quite different from what it was some decades ago. Service to people and businesses who do services or produce any products or anything, which is what normal people feel is that banks and financial companies are generally meant to be done; many people think that they are the leading part of financial companies; perhaps just a small part of the real business of financial companies. Real business in a financial company is primarily about business between financial companies, business with stocks and stocks, and this is the growth in the business that has been the main explanation of the expansion of the financial sector. It must raise questions as we look at this closed group of companies and people switching between the same bills back and forth, which can increase the value of these enterprises on paper several times over a day and in just a few minutes. It must raise questions about the nature of this sector and how unfavourable it has been to stand after a crash, how probably it has been in the EU to come to the financial saving sector. In fact, it has been absolutely certain that banks and financial companies are too big to go through, that will have too much influence on the public in these countries and on the job, but it is still sobering in view that services to that type of life are so small in these financial companies. We have seen that the financial system has greatly influenced political policy. Then I am not only witnessing to Iceland, I am witnessing to Europe, but also, of course, to the United States and the Western world. The financial system has had a tremendous impact on political policy on the financial system. We've seen the financial system take to heart the most qualified people out of the world's universities. There's competition for them people between these companies. Within the financial system, we see the superpays and requests that are blessed as no part of that induction, but we discussed here last year. Surely all of this raises questions as to whether we are on the right track. I testify, for example. to economist Johns Kays, who visited Iceland on the invitation of the United States, reminded me of this year, and wrote a fine book entitled Money to other people where he wondered whether we need to see the nature of the financial system rather than to be constantly adding the regularity patches here and there to make sure that we're doing the work. He raises the question, What is this system for? What is the point of this financial service? Does she exist for herself, or does she exist for something else? Is it available for the sake of professional life, society, people? When we discuss the financial system, we refer to the roll that comes with it. It discusses a number of jobs in the financial sector, discussing income and taxes paid by the employees of the financial sector. But questions such as the social role of the system may not necessarily be raised. If we are able to say so, how does it serve the business, the business? I feel that after observing this discussion and sharing in the work of the Commission on the implementation of very technical factors in the financial law, where there is a set of items such as own money and other such, all done in the name of the government in some way that it has a better way of managing this financial system, that you must wonder after the implementation of Biesel I and Biesel II and Basel III, and, of course, what matters also, some sort of research, which is not prepared, for the role here to agree, whether this is the right way. My company may be very political, and it doesn't lie to me whether the committee has handled this case well and done it as best we can, here we are, of course, discussing the induction of which we are committed to record, but I wonder whether the directive itself and thereby our inclusion in that directive is the right way to achieve the goals that many people in this room, many of them. Senators from different categories, have spoken for, that we need to reexamine the financial system. There have been talk of community banks, financial systems that serve people, not money itself. I quote again Johns Kays's excellent words, which says we need financial services, but the one present is too much of the good. It is worth considering whether the regular compensations here are trying to introduce, or change, or what we call them, serve their real role. I'm very confident that this methodology will be effective and that it will put me in charge. I have fundamental advantages about the way Europe's financial system is and the methods that governments try to establish. I don't think they'll take the root of the problem, address the question about the real meaning of financial services, but they'll be too much of a financial system on terms of financial systems. That's what I'm doing here. It is very large and material, but it is not about work. The Economic and Business Committee on the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-16-133.u152	President. I represent the Committee for Economic and Business Affairs and my name is not under this committee. It's not because I fear of which the European Union has its financial system. However, it is clear that we will deal with the way we are going to run the financial system in our country. There may be some other discussion, and I don't think she's really coming into this. On the other hand, by adopting such rules, we need to know how we are going to enforce them. How do we know that they will be carried out? And how will we monitor that it is being done here? And if we pick them up, will we live by them? Then there is another question: Will we make our financial system somehow different and reduce our order? On the other hand, the rules discussed in the Directive presented here include a high monitoring system in the European Union. The committee's opinion certainly stands, like a wag. The head of the Commission stated that on the part of the Commission it is obligatory that according to the European Commission's adaptation of the Icelandic rights proposed in the bill there is no position as to the role of the European Commission or the EFTA in terms of financial markets. I simply consider this process to be an inseparable part from setting up these rules. That's why I didn't sign the committee, and that's why the Conspiracy will be standing by for the release of this case.
