ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-20-113.u1	A respectable president. I now recommend a bill to correct the treatment of property that is dependent on the specific restrictions. Baseline this is part of the pooled budget for the release of capital syrup introduced by the government in June last year. The first step in the strategy was to solve the problems that had been created by fallen financial companies and that factor has been completed fully, as it is known. At the same time, the government's operation program announced that the next step behind the fragments would be the problem created by the so - called African nations. As in the past, public interests are high, requiring that emissions of capital waste be accomplished without any threat to economic and financial stability. Based on this, the seas are released in stages and each step in that direction is taken only after a more detailed supply of information and analysis of the situation. The bill I recommend now contains the definition of the so-called African property. They have not previously been defined in Icelandic law, and the definition of these is precisely developed in eight sections of Article 2. The bill. Under the definition, you will fall, e.g. deposit accounts, bonds, and exchanges, which may include: it belongs to foreign agencies who have a work permit or operate legitimately on financial markets. African property is owned or owned by foreign sources and is considered more likely to seek out the emissions of capital ablaze with negative effects on the European Union's gangs. The Gjarn has been referred to as a possession of foreign organisations, and they will not be legally sold for currency unless they do business with other foreign parties, as well as if they were involved in that trade, is different from the trades and services of citizens who will then be held at a domestic currency market, a so-called market. However, these crowns are preserved at the bank institutions and stock companies in this country, and their real owners are both foreign and domestic individuals and lawyers. The bill also includes a list of national property, which for different reasons are considered necessary to separate the terms of the bill. These terms are attributed to Article 3. The bill of nine teams. The main objective of the bill is to separate national property even more clearly and safely. As a result, II is suggested. section of the bill that the national bank of Iceland, in its own form, will move to credit accounts on special limits if they wish to, in the case of foreign stocks. This will be the case in the form of electronic registered stocks in the possession of national and foreign financial institutions, which will move into administrative accounts at Iceland's Secret Bank on the name of the relevant requisition. The obligation to perform the above transfers will be placed on financial and stock markets and must be carried out no later than September 1, 2016. It then obliges the deposit centres to make up the same amount of money and accounts that depend on their specific limits to their investments in the so - called Penitentiary of Iceland. The card will carry 0.5% interest which will be revised every 12 months by Iceland's Secret Bank. Accounts that depend on specific restrictions will generally be prohibited, yet there are important variations. Thus there will be temporary sources for assessment due to the currency exchange at Iceland's Secret Bank for a reference march to November 1, 2016. On May 20, 2016, the owners of national property, which is considered to be obligatory, will have the authority to pay to the Federal Bank the difference between the value of the property in euro, which consisted of the reference gang and the official middle line of a cent against the euro. That authority also applies to November 1, 2016. In this case the assessment should be non-termised in the following cases: 1st Because of the purchase of special accounts published by Iceland's Secret Bank. 2. Because of the transfers between accounts that depend on specific restrictions. 3. As a result of the assessment, the total amount of money is 6 billion. K. In the almanac wound, it is shown that there is a real possession of an individual and continuous ownership. 4. As a result of growth, interest rates, and interest rates. The Bank of Iceland is in the bill commissioned to supervise the procedure of the law, the bank is given the authority to gather information, the authority to complete a case with agreement and resources in the form of a day's fine and a government ticket. Finally, the bill suggests secondary changes in currency laws and laws on the electronic registration of stocks directly linked to the subject of the bill. It is suggested that the restrictions on currency will be suspended for the capital movements and currency exchanges expected in the bill. This suggests changes aimed at limiting the possibility of a person to avoid capitalism. Finally, in the bill, the legislation on the electronic ownership of stocks is proposed to ensure that Iceland's Secret Bank has one authority to interact with the registration of stocks considered to be derived from national stocks. A respectable president. If this bill is to be legalized, it is planned that Iceland's province will retain currency tenders, where all African owners will be able to exchange their national property for euro. The bill thus includes the obligation of the owner of national property to set out specifically the off-country assets that will not be used through the proposed currency supply of the Federal Bank. Owners of the land property who do not participate in the campaign will continue to have the legal right to their property. They will be able to take out and exchange all interest fees and do business with their crowns in a national market. When the government's budget is completed, the next steps will turn to domestics and businesses in Iceland. It is planned that the freedom of individuals to capitalists will be increased, as well as the investment rights of companies and pension funds. For less than eight years, capitalists have limited risk distributions in domestic stocks and have held the possibility of domestic enterprises to use lucrative cooperation with foreign organisations. Economic costs are growing over time, and the need for risk distribution in domestic stocks is being built up. African property is now about 319 billion. and they were considered very quick, i.e. Probably looking for an exit. Under the standard range of the bill, you will lose some of the values of the bill. The stock market, which could be seen by their owners, is expected to quickly sell their letters. There are also some possibilities of hierarchical shunning during the operation. For this reason it is thought that the bill will be legal for the next financial opening. If the bill doesn't get rushed, there's a great chance that leftovers will be able to avoid the limitations expected in the bill. Reaching the bill is an important step toward the disposal of capital resources. As a result, there is a significant increase in the possibility that capitalization will be achieved by individuals and businesses in the country that could once again enjoy the benefits that can follow voluntary capital transport. When a better balance is achieved on national stocks, it will again be directed to the emissions of capital stocks on decontinents. Even when that happens will be the case. of the international spending needs, the direct long-term investment of foreign parties, the size of the currency reserves at any given time, the development of the commercial and the outer status of the population. A respectable president. Funding is the most important economic operation that governments are currently facing, and the bill I recommend here is beginning to be well watched for the country, and the time of financial crisis for people and businesses is coming to an end. When the oceans were first legalized, the aim was to remove them as soon as possible. Sadly, something else occurred during the day. The objective of the government on spring days of 2013 was to resolve the problem. To a large extent, the work began by trying to draw close to the truth about the scope and extent of the problem. It was not a simple task, and many had to do it. The aim has always been clear, that Iceland will be first a member of international financial markets and that we will wipe out the problem of national equipment without disrupting economic stability in the community. Then, on that basis, we can persevere in edification in a much healthy economic environment and put considerable force in the ongoing life - support campaign for the entire population. During those spring days, as summer begins to cool off and the mood gets lighter, it is a joy to be able to recommend a bill of great importance and to show that we are making progress in this vital work. Similarly, the national estate is bright now that the shadow of the sea is falling. A respectable president. According to this statement, the bill will have to end this discussion. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-20-113.u2	Mr. President. This is a huge case we'll discuss here on Friday afternoon and find out how to handle the so - called deltas. Here is a specific route, i.e. that there may be a decree prepared in the heart of the children of the land; that those who don't make use of that way may be as restricted as the highest. A minister did a fine job in his speech earlier, and I'm not going to repeat it. There is no need to recall the files we have lived in here in the community since the 2008 collapse that were needed in our time. This too is done well, especially in an excellent summary on page 14 of the report. During very difficult times, the head provided an important refuge for the Icelandic economy. Not to be forgotten, as mentioned above, is the fact that since the fragments of the fallen banks went under the seas, this was an extremely important operation on the way of dislodging the oceans. It is also well considered what we have agreed on at a council hall, that long term seas are not desirable and are particularly relevant for investment opportunities, especially domestic companies, domestic pension funds and other parties, and, of course, to affect our participation in international cooperation. All right, there are goals. But I'm going to say in the beginning that I would have chosen from the beginning of this terms, and have discussed it here many times, that the government would have had much more consultation than all mails have had on this journey. That's what I said when we put in a prime report on stable taxes and the stability proposals at the time. I repeat here that this case makes us aware of a meeting committee of emissions where a meeting was held yesterday and, of course, I would have chosen to have had an increased transnational consultation on these matters, since this is a huge interest for all of us, the whole community. So there's a big question. The Economic and Business Committee will need to be very careful, because there's a lot of interests involved here. It says that this is from what can be set aside as a heartbreak of 319 billion. This is a lower proportion of land production than was, it struck me as high as 40%, has subsidized the economy, but it is now about 15%. It has tremendous impact on the way it works. The question we have. A financial and business committee must ask us: Is this mechanism contained in order to achieve its aim? Will this be achieved with the methodology? What can be the result if those who own these crowns are not going to take advantage of the ways in which they have been put here? Could we be looking at the reality that Iceland will continue to become a state of terror despite our acceptance of this equipment? How will this affect the situation in this country in the future? These are the big questions we need to ask ourselves, are we convinced that the equipment will act in such a way as to feel that there are no errors in it, whether the equipment will provide the desired goals, and what does it mean if these parties are not going through a currency supply? What does it take to be called a marine, so how much money does it have to be left? And how will this affect Icelandic employment and our participation in international cooperation? These are questions that we will take to heart. Because I mentioned that I had chosen more consultation on these matters, the committee's projects have to review all these questions this weekend. It is also important that in this bill, there is a good deal of discussion about the real owners of the leftovers. I've made it a subject of the council that it's important that real property lies before a currency tenders come. I think it's very important. A financial and business committee reviews whether there is real ownership and whether the Committee has information on this in view of the recent discussion at the World Council on all the complex issues that we have seen in the holding of enterprises which have been difficult to trace. Here we discuss quite a few things about the real owners, but it's important to realize that we want to know who owns these fresh ones, who are their real owners. We want to have confidence that the Council of Churches has this overview and can review it with an economic and business committee. In the case of such great interests, it is our duty, democratic elected agents, to make the most of the evidence of the operation. Although it defended the nature of a matter in terms of high commercial interests for all individuals, it is primarily concerned with the national interests of the nation. It is important that we here, the elected representatives of the public, from different categories, from different directions, can truthfully say that information is available so that we can be confident that things are well cared for, and that the public in the country can be confident that they are as well at work as possible. For the third time, I would come back to the point where I would have felt better that more consultation had been done in the leadings of this process. I see in itself no reason to give this very long talk on the subject. Now, the time has come for us to review this case with our partners. The Economic and Business Committee intends to meet immediately after this meeting. It's important that we be careful. When it comes to 319 billion, 15% of the domestic product if I remember the correct figures, it is important that we succeed and the public can be confident that we have examined all the information so that we have confidence in this operation. I hope that's the result of this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-20-113.u3	President. As mentioned in the preceding talks, this is a huge case. Although a financial and business committee has received a free presentation this morning, it is not reasonable to discuss it now in any sense materially. A bill of the above seems to me in human language on how to handle the extra money left when a currency bid is completed and it is due to be performed in mid June. So that's what the bill is about. It may well be said that more discussions had been better, so that we would be better prepared to talk about this and deal with it now. Of course, we have a clear understanding of the need for prompt treatment. We won't do it in any way or in any way. However, I stress that, of course, we need specialists and visitors and to cover all these matters thoroughly. Some of these have been mentioned above, and there is no need to repeat them. It's a huge project. Unfortunately, it has been this way, so it was about the big step taken before, about the stable tax that then became stable contracts and stability contracts, that, as it took place, we trusted in the government opposition, unfortunately, not to vote for them. Still, we would have been very willing to cooperate with it all, at least I can speak for myself and my party. I hope there's no such thing coming up with this case, I hope we can all stand together to resolve it. I don't trust myself to say now, because it's all our business to look at it and then decide before opening markets on Monday about how we're doing it. The case is huge, and this weekend we've got a lot of work to do when we're looking at it all. I don't see any reason to delay it any longer and so finish my case here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-20-113.u4	President. You know, when you're talking about such a lot of financial addictions, you're supposed to have stomach discomfort. You're supposed to feel insecure, and that's how I feel. I've been given a presentation on this big picture on this bill and this way and I like it all after the meeting I've been in for a presentation on the case -- it's rather superficial and it'll be very superficial even though we're lying over it all day until Sunday. It is a 40 - page bill on a very complex financial attraction, 27 articles. I haven't seen the Regulation to which the Ministry of Economics is due, so I just have to say that I'm unsure. I also have to say that I would have found it more reasonable to wait until a new assembly had come to have this procedure so that my complete confidence and confidence in this project would be complete. That's a big deal. Sometimes I experience that we're a little bare and that's how we're seen in the big world. We cannot overlook how the explanation is given in the highest degree. The secretary of finance that our secretary of the tax had a foreign society. We can't overlook that. In many other lands, the minister would still be, although he was not the minister of finance, had resigned, or at least Step aside. Now we're dealing with one of the largest money - carrying campaigns in the history of the country, and it is represented by a minister who does not have much confidence among the people. I'm thinking about it. I'm sorry. I'm just not scraping things off here. I'm not gonna stand in the way of this because I don't have the right to do it, but it's even more important that we give ourselves all the time we possibly can get. The head of the Economic and Business Committee, that we carefully look at indications. Let's not forget it, and it really bothers me most, that four parties, funds or societies, own 50% of these crowns, property. Six people own 65%. I haven't been able to get any answers to who these people really are. I think it's very serious that we're going to an operation that's impossible to tell whether it's a fire sale or not. We cannot be sure of anything in this. We're sliding into the ocean with sources I have to say is not much of a trust. Now it stands for the council to make sure that these arrangements will increase confidence in our financial system and in the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-20-113.u5	A respectable president. I come up here to celebrate the finally appearing of this bill, a bill on the treatment of crown property that is on the specific limits. The issue has long led to this, and this has been discussed in the decommissioning committee with several other members of each body. This has been expected for a considerable period of time, almost a year. It is very important that this is primarily a major problem. I suspect that's what's taken the fact that the bill was submitted. True, it has been in the discussion for a long time and may not be unexpected, but it has at last arrived. We on the Economic and Business Committee were well introduced in the case by noon, very careful with the arrival of representatives from the Ministry and the Federal Bank. The matter is being worked out in cooperation with the Federal Bank, the Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, receiving advice from various experts on individual factors. Now the overall picture is being revealed. Of course, we're going to have a very good look at the Economic and Business Committee for the next two days, and right after this meeting, a meeting in the Committee will be held to refer the case to a source of information, to give economists, experts, and institutions an opportunity to express themselves on that subject. Tomorrow, we will welcome guests, review all these reviews, and bring back the Ministry and Experts to respond to what it says. The Commission intends to do this as hard as possible at the short time available, two days, with the objective of trying to do a good committee opinion and having it ready here on Sunday night before the council to examine further. Then, hopefully, we'll have gotten to the bottom of this case and turn the bill into the law for opening markets on Monday morning. What I think is the main thing about this, and maybe it doesn't, just an opportunity, I think, is clearly defined as to what am amputates are. Here is an extremely well-defined definition where, at least at first sight. Of course, we will examine very carefully the members of the Committee whether there is any uncertainty about this subject. It is very important that these Offenses are clearly defined. It is then recommended that they be bound in a certain way, today, and that this will be a much more difficult setting than has been done. It gives the Federal Bank the opportunity and space to keep these deportations open to those who have them to get them out of the country. There is no pressing question that beyond what is now or what is limited, it is just working to solve the situation, and an important aspect of the work of the Committee is to see if there is any right to own, equal, or any other constitution rights. This, of course, will introduce us very well, but I know that it has been done in the work of the consultants and of the experts here at work. It is not known if they will be interested in these African landlords to participate in the auction. That in itself is not a matter of principle. The key thing to my mind is that they will be very loyal. There can continue to be a deal between parties through these deportations on the land markets. As we know, there have been trades with these scraps of land in the snow-engine on the whole gang other than here on the euro. Today, the euro's gang around 140, but in these markets, gangs have been much lower, in these African countries, for a certain reason because of their limitations. They have not been able to match the amount of dollars used in the economy. Another very important explanation is also made in this case, in terms of the motive and need of the legislation, and it is also stated that it may take a considerable number of years for the economy to get into position that the binding accounts on which these deportations enter, or those documents, that will be bound on low interest. It may take quite a while, and here we are arguing that it is desirable for the national and Icelandic organisations, homes, businesses and pension funds to have an opportunity to adjust their risk distributions before these accounts can be released. I think it's an important opportunity for those of us who own these Afghans today to take advantage of this opportunity and participate in the prospective discharge of the Secret Bank to eliminate their uncertainty. There is no abnormal sewing around here. There are already certain problems and other options are being offered to eliminate any instability in the system. I think it's an opportunity. At first glance, we'd like this, at least For me. Of course, the committee will work hard as possible and take the matter on the agenda at the end of this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-20-113.u6	A respectable president. I thank you for the tone being made here, that at the council and on the committee, everything will be done to call on viewpoints in the way that is offered here and speed up the treatment of the case that I have given the argument that matters a great deal. This case has been prepared for years. Over the past few years, we have had a lot of work to do in this preparation, and I believe that we have been able to build a way for this part of the show, which is likely to bring us the results that remain. Here, most of all, we're making a living for further executions for people and businesses in the country. Although there have been some results in recent years in reducing this aspect of the problem, this snow - handed area, some 320 billion still remain. At previous tenders, just over 160 billion people have searched for 21 publishers. Such measures have proved to be effective, but the problem remains. The discussion shows how much this is of national production. It is clear to everyone that it is not acceptable to the public in the country and not to defend the economic value of taking the risk that such a big problem causes such a major financial disorder simply by letting him out of the currency market overnight. I reiterate what has been presented before, this step is part of a comprehensive program that we have previously introduced. This aspect of the matter is being set aside for the next steps that will take place later this year. This and previous invitations are actions directed to these aspects of the problem. Of course, we will never be able to ensure in advance that the problem will be completely solved by a planned currency bid, since participation is entirely optional. However, this step is critical for further financial waste, and we do not want it to delay longer than it has been. Of course, we hope that those steps will be followed without fail. A bill will review a number of aspects of the economic importance of these matters. There have been significant work in the report, and these are things known, the importance of the restoration of pension funds to the foreign land, and most important, that we get back to what we would call normal, healthy conditions for capital movements in general. I would like to thank you again for being well-subordinated at the Assembly Hall, and I would like to wish the Commission all the benefits of the work now being carried on by a committee, and there will continue to be any help available from the administrative system to explain some other aspects.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-20-113.u7	Mr. President. V.E.G. A financial minister said that this was a significant milestone on a long journey that had begun many years ago. You're absolutely right. The first step was taken in the days of the former government when we made that decision, as we do today, after the markets had been locked up and the property of the foreign demands. Now we're also taking a very important step, and I want to make the most of it. The minister of all good fortunes to the difficult journey now to take. It's like the highest. Ministers said they've rubbed down the snowener, I'm holding down about half to another dozen tenders. We are now 320 billion people who have to happen in some way. Looks like it's done safely. Even as I understand the situation, there is no need to be a major involvement in the export of this bill because the solution to the bill is the dissociation of the demasks and the dissociation of a considerable amount of time to come. That's what matters. Then you can take the step we're waiting for, which is to solve public accounts and pension funds. That's very important. But isn't one thing missing in this equation? At the same time we're doing this, the money's coming up into Iceland in the power of waxing. I think it may be safely said that there are nearly 100 billion people who have been added to it. In other words, we are spending 300 billion here, but at the same time, we add another 100 billion. That addition can be very rapid. That's why I think what we need in this case is that at the same time, the highest. The secretary of the budget presented a management tool for the Sentencing Bank and carried out to control this influx if necessary. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance, as I did the other day: When will it come to our attention that they are being taken here? [[The president calls.]] When will he make that effort?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-20-113.u8	Mr. President. The tools mentioned here have been examined in the Secret Bank, and we in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs have cooperated with the Secret Bank to discuss the benefits considered here. I feel that it is important, as I have previously told the council to keep it in place that some such device will not lead to a turning point. Other factors have a much greater impact on such activities, and it is important that public finance are well maintained, that these are not created conditions that require too high a interest level. Such factors alone can have a far greater impact than any potential government tool and thus the Secret Bank to stop the quick - growing capital. That's what I've been saying. This device has been considered, and this case is being worked out in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Economic Affairs. I expect soon to be able to communicate the ways that we want to have opened up in these materials. The ones that have been specifically referred to include some form of taxation and, on the other hand, binding. I'm more likely to be selected than the taxing route, but it cannot be said to prevent us from taking the steps we are taking here and then further decommissioning steps that are not final. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-20-113.u9	Mr. President. The government's office is working with the government to bring this matter through the council. I agree with the highest. A financial minister to the point that we have not yet provided a bill that gives the Society a control device to help prevent excessive growth management will not prevent us from accepting this, as it were. But I believe that it would have been desirable for such a weapon to have carried into the weapons library that we need to be prepared to deal with problems that could be caused by a very rapid influx into Iceland. I'll allow you to doubt that you're right by the highest level. Secretary of finance that such equipment is not of great importance. I view them as sources to the Federal Bank in case of a special situation that described itself as being a relatively quick influx. This can happen very quickly, although we may not have seen it before. Things are very different now than they were when the present challenger looked into the country. There's more to it than that. Today we live, e.g. so that in one neighboring country, there are negative interest rates at a cash bank of less than a quarter of a percent. Japan's late bank introduced a recent growth change, which also includes the understates of 0.25. In other words, the growth difference is increasing, and the lure of money into Icelandic society as well. I believe that such sources are a sort of emergency inhibitor, which must be available for the Federal Bank if he believes that in a rush, not to a daily bridge. That's my attitude. I've asked the highest. Secretary of finance about that in the past, and he said: It's being considered. [[The president calls.]] Now some months later, he's still looking at it. V.E.G. A minister is a valiant man, and I believe that he should act quickly to present this matter here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-20-113.u10	A respectable president. I just want it to be perfectly clear that I believe that this work is important if we provide such sources in any form we eventually decide to suggest them. I'm not minimizing the need for it, but I'm pointing out that such devices are not a magic solution and not the only solution to that problem. They can only work as a crutch or support tool as well as other measures I have considered.
