ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-130.u1	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the case of the Social Services Agency. The committee met with members of a dispute and those at the general employment market, experts, and others I'm not going to be the reason for this committee party. We all agree that this is a ban on the work done by the Icelandic air traffic manager. Then we refer to the legal issues there. Then we end up with the question 1st. 74. g. Iceland's constitution requires the right to establish enterprises for legitimate purposes, including political societies and unions. This has been interpreted, including based on 2 mg. 75. g. The constitution and Article 11. European Convention on Human Rights, as stated by law No. 62/1994, that it protects the right union to protect and protect the interests of its members, including by negotiating their pay and their terms. The legal penalties of a union union have been considered to be protected by the law that the right can be set by law, as 2 mgr. 75. g. The constitution. Is the bill in all key elements comparable to that of the law No. 31/2015, about the discretion of the members of a certain college union and the company of Icelandic nurses, but in the judgment of August 13, 2015, No. 467/2015 saw the law as completely in harmony with the regulations of the constitution. The committee points out that it is a principle in Icelandic labour rights that parties of collective agreements complete their contracts. Under certain circumstances, intervention by the legislatator may be necessary to end work conflicts, but such intervention would be a limit to the above constitutions of rights. In the case of the above, such restrictions must be established by law and sanctified by the necessity of a democratic society because of national security or public goods, or for the protection of others, and to be careful not to legalize beyond what is necessary. It should be noted that the Lawgiver has both the right and the duty to protect the public interest in situations such as these and must be weighed down by the constitutionrs of the rights in relation to the public interests involved. The Icelandic air traffic manager's contribution has had negotiations with the workforce since October. A dispute was referred to a state - of - war in February of this year. A number of negotiations have been held, but negotiations have made little progress, and it is not predictable that treaties will be reached. It was stated to the Committee that there is a great deal between parties. The air traffic manager's overtime ban has lasted more than two months, since April 6th. Have the actions already caused significant damage and interference with air transport to and from the country as well as a disturbance in the management of the Icelandic air management area, but the Icelandic government has to fully meet its commitments to the flying history of the North Atlantic, which has been handled since 1956. The Commission feels that the actions that have already affected the European economy are already causing much damage and that the result of continued decomposition measures will be further maintained in a number of countries that depend on pay and efficient air transport. In the opinion of the Committee, the overall interest in the public interest and the need for legislation to prevent economic damage is particularly affecting the rights of third parties which are affected by the actions of the strike but which do not involve the fight. Then the bill calls for the order of arbitration that has the task of determining agreements between parties is not met by June 24th. It thus ensures that there is sufficient room for people to decide for themselves to make the purchases and markets for themselves within the right time, as it were, the objective of the bill is to protect public interest and to avoid economic damage. The Committee considers the above conditions of the Constitution for the need for legislation, the need for public interest and average control, as is also attributed to comments on the bill. In this regard, more part of the environment and transport committee is written and I don't think there's really any more on this matter for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-130.u2	A respectable president. I would like to recommend my share of the Environment and Transport Committee on a bill to set up the privacy of the European Commission. It is unidentified that the activities of the Icelandic air traffic manager against Istavia have a significant effect, including tourism and businesses linked to it, as well as the import and export of the public to and from the country. The aims of such measures are to influence third parties and thus inevitably influence society in various ways. The effects must be very serious, threatening public interests or causing economic woes to justify legalization. The reduction in part estimates have not been reasoned that such conditions exist under current circumstances. The right to strike is a fundamental part of the right union to negotiate the terms of their members and to enjoy the protection of the Constitution and of the European Convention of Human Rights. This right should not be restricted unless clearly necessary for the sake of public interest. As we evaluate this need, we should consider that it is the direct purpose of a strike to put pressure on the data board to force it to negotiate. It's the responsibility of a contract to make deals. If they fail to do so, there are various laws to force a decision to be made. All such routes must be fully updated before the intervention of the legislature can be considered. It cannot be seen that air traffic operators have made no decisive attempt to approach their views. It has been observed that although there is a high level of agreement between parties, treaties are not fully tested. Courts have not refused that the legislatator will intervene as long as public interests are at stake or an economic catastrophe exists. In this regard, it is proper to refer to the court of the Supreme Court in the ASI case against the State of No. 167/2002, which claims that the courts are making rich demands on the definition of public interest and convincing support so that such intervention can be considered justifiable and include: was referred to inexpensive legislation data. In the case of the members of the committee, it was stated that there was a question of the fact that this bill stands in the covenants that we are in, including, the two of us. The rules of the International Jobs Agency and Article 11. European Convention of Human Rights. The current section adopted the 143th Parliament's legislation on U.S. anti-S. military strike action on the basis of local interests that are deemed to meet the rich requirement for the public interest definition expressed in the above court. Hence, there is good reason to make comments on how the administrative body appears to be involved. With the legalisation of the GDP issue, the EEA gave a clear message to employers in articles that carry out important activities such as transport that the slightest disturbance in regular activities was involved. As a result, the contract situation of the worker was seriously weakened, and it became very uncertain. The day has come when the law of thelf Rollion Controversy was a very dramatic mistake, as the minority warned at the time. It is not clear how the law will solve overtime or overwork the pilot's roof. There is no overtime duty in air traffic drivers, and it is clear that the outcome of a procedure could result in continued rigidity or failure from air traffic managers to work overtime. Despite the wording of 19. there are few answers to how the individuals mentioned here refuse to work overtime. Then, during the past few years, the speed of recovery from increased tourist currents must influence what constitutes the natural working force of Article 19. where a job has been defined The history of the subcontinent pilot has become a long history, and it is clear that by means of the procedure presented here, it will be maintained indefinitely. In 1997, representatives of the transport minister, secretary of finance, and secretary of state, as well as air traffic control, as well as the Icelandic air traffic manager's company, a variety of reforms in the work environment and the union's ideals. Among other things, it was emphasised on reducing the work of the head of the air traffic, increasing the number of air traffic drivers, making long - term contracts for buying and choosing a traffic controller, taking into account their special status and the demands they are made in the decision of payers. It is best to say that none of this has been done in those less than two decades since the agreement was made. So this is a continuation of the small - dose cures that the state, owner of Istavia, has used in the affairs of air traffic managers for decades. Job drivers are no longer responsible for reaching their decision in agreements and are confident that the government will intervene as presented here, thus taking sides with one of the parties. Then, in its earlier law, underlies were put in charge of aviation of aviation of pilots, BHMs, nurses, and pilots who actually wrote the laws before the law was adopted. So these frequent laws are a concern and show a lack of respect for employment contracts. The minority therefore expresses concern that there is repeated legalization without policy on the part of the government, which will permanently weaken the right to strike and have a negative and unpredictable impact on the development of the labour market. If negotiaters are beginning to view the legislation of a strike procedure as a normal intervention, small incentives are likely to achieve contracts in a conventional way. Instead of legislation, it would be reasonable to work with the labour market partners to strengthen the foundation of the overall labour market meeting referred to as SALEK, with emphasis on finding a common understanding on the basis of such an agreement. On the one hand, social stability, as well as economic, would have to be addressed, and on the other, there are conflicting demands on labour markets due to salary development over the past few years. Perhaps today it would have been different if the government had decided to spend the day talking to the labor movement rather than to put the law into a fight and then to leave it when it was signed as presented today. Figuratively, at the same time as a pilot's law was made to leave the labor movement with this newly formed body. Thus, the law of a fight seems to have become part of the government's general dress policy and a predictable part of the government's response to complex work conditions. It is not enough to put the overall agreement of workers in the labour market solely about paying down their salary requirements and then ignoring all social benefits. A respectable president. Under this committee are the writings of minor members of the committee, the one that stands here, with severity. Councilmen of Sakhis Svavarsdóttir, Róbert Marshall, and Ástún Guðrún Helgadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-130.u3	A respectable president. I would like to give up the legislation on this subject to allow me to quote the 2014 state's annual report, which year marked a number of milestones in Iceland because in Iceland the period was generally agreed to purchase and vote without conflict. During the difficult years of 2008-2013, there was also little thought of making a legal move to ban labor action by groups of wage workers, first by legalization of submers on the Globe, and then at the headquarters of a pilot at Icelands, and at the same partner's hard work. The problem of the Generalist states that there is a great deal to be taken into account as to whether the procedure in a labour market is justified. That is the question we face. On the other hand, it says that a statesman's rights to people and businesses to determine a workaholic for specific rules fulfilled and the Lawgiver's assessment of the nation's total interest or that of its provisional group. According to the report, the President's permission states: The Lawgiver's dealings with the three cases were different. The involvement of the Navy debate was primarily reasoned on business grounds, i.e. that the export of fish products would be damaged by long-term action. In the flying dispute, it can be said that both the business views and the interests of third parties, i.e. Flight passengers, have been riding the flag. It is difficult to argue that national interests or national security were involved in the Warfare conflict. The same can be said of pilots and pilots'strike operations, although they were far more and far more commercial. In view of the intervention by the General of the Controversies in 2014, it would be helpful to consider the circumstances in which the intervention of the IIlis in a conflict is justified and necessary. A respectable president. Of course, the current government and government sector have not, in any way, met these pressing questions, i.e. How we can expect this to develop a healthy, upbuilding labour market that has the trust of the people to make a statement while paying people often expect government and government groups to take sides with one of the parties and put a law on a work dispute. This is a serious matter that we now face. This has become the norm of this government, and again and again to the point where this government takes place in the community, i.e. with those who have and who can but not with those who have nothing to sell but their jobs
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-130.u4	A respectable president. This case gives me a little bit of heartache, especially since there is not a general strike operation but only a overtime ban. This is where we're talking about the 50-hour overtime they have to work every month to make sure that there's no traffic control around Iceland and that Iceland's flight law is going nowhere. This is just a delay, just because the pilot's class has not been designed enough. There's something on the shoulders of Istavia. It was found at a meeting with us that about 15 people are taking care of 18 standards and that at the same time, the last three to five years, however you think of it, has increased by 20% in Iceland. That's a lot of pressure. We are talking about a class that we want to be completely in, both mentally and physically. Full - time work hours a month have taken 24 to 50 in a few years, so there's only hope that there's a little improvement here. The fact that air traffic managers are in overtime is just their way of calling attention to the serious situation in which this class is in. These are the people who let us land at airports. We would like to be able to do so. We don't want to crash in the water or anything like that. If we do not keep up - to - date with the global trend when it comes to air traffic control, we are at high risk of avatar flight. Air traffic is an exceptional international work that humans can do anywhere in the world. It has shown that a large number of Icelandic air traffic managers are simply working abroad, and they are seeking it. When there is a demand in the world in general for air traffic drivers, we need to make sure that they are better than they are. That's just the way it is. It is very important that labor unions and strike operations be respected. It is of little value to have strike operations and the right to have labor movements if the government comes and puts the law on the right as if no one is tomorrow. We need to respect the basic human rights of the people to perform a strike operation in order to achieve an improvement, otherwise we may as well not do. That's something we just don't want.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-130.u5	A respectable president. It has been observed in this committee today that this case is the greatest delirium and part of a very disturbing development that actually began with the legalization of the army's subcontinents. This undermines negotiations; this undermines the decisive attempt to meet demands, to meet, to negotiate, to negotiate, to negotiate, as it is normal. The two very important aspects of this matter have not been demonstrated today, in the first place, in the public interest, in how they are involved, and in the second place how these are faced by a pilot who has been involved in a form of overtime roofs or overtime. If these laws go along, do not negotiate for the amount of time laid down in the law and find that there is nothing to be done to demand of those who do not care about it and do not have it in their contracts to work overtime. There's no overtime duty for air traffic drivers. True, it is true that in 19. legal in unions and labour conflicts is assumed to be a work stop or a postmortem in the presence of a coordinated social action and human beings who do not do their normal work, but in view of the situation and the development that has taken place in the management environment of the air traffic manager in the past one to three years, such a mutation in the overtime burden of work cannot be defined as normal work. This is a critical operation. It will not have the desired results, it undermines society's basic rights and the basic salary to use the strike rights, use the workforce to achieve benefits. Therefore, the only logical conclusion that can be drawn here today - men have come to that conclusion in the past on such matters - that they could be neutral or sit by these actions when the government has repeated in this terms taken over a period of employment, but now it's time to do so. This has led to a very disturbing development, undermined a market agreement, and can only be on red, opposed, and said no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-130.u6	A respectable president. This situation may have looked different if the day had been spent talking to the labor movement and trying to strengthen the foundation of a global workforce. It was not, and it is symbolic for the work of this government, that on the same day as it is passed in a trumped - up dispute, the government leaves the labor movement at a meeting by meeting a national conference without it in spite of the labor movement's request for another. The only thing requested is that the overall meeting should be done not merely by reimbursers but also by social reforms and social improvements at the same time. That's all they're asking for. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. This government will ignore the requirement on the same day that it imposes a law in a fight. This is not the result of creating peace in a workforce.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-130.u7	A respectable president. This is a law against the strike rights. This is a law that is unconvinced because there has been no evidence that rich public interests are at stake or an economic catastrophe. This is a tragic development in government relations with the labour market, a trend against a free contract in a labour market. These factors must be discussed overall, along with the way we want to build with the social factors that the labor movement has required to be prepared whenever we discuss dress code. The team of left movement ◯ Green supply votes against this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-08-130.u8	A respectable president. It is not easy to put laws in a fight. It is the heavy steps of those who have to take that responsibility and determine whether economic interests, public interest, are rich and must be made rich. To me it is this way in this matter, these economic interests are certainly there, as well as the possibility of reconciliation that people have repeatedly met without getting together and that there is much to be done. That's why I think it's right on the basis of the public interest that's under the lay of law on this silly debate, but that's certainly a heavy step.
