ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u1	Ragnhildur Helgadóttir, former general and minister, and former president of the lower branch of the Generals, died last Friday night, January 29, at the Hospital in a short term of disease. She was 86th year old. Ragnhildur Helgadóttir was born in Reykjavík on May 26, 1930. Her parents were Dr. Helgi Tómasson's chief physician and his first wife, Kristín Bjarnadóttir's daughter. Ragnhildur completed a student exam from the University of high school in Reykjavík in 1949 and a law test at the University of Iceland in 1958. In 1965 she was granted a legal right to a district attorney. Ragnhildur Helgadóttir was chosen in 1956 to place at the top of the Independent Party in Reykjavík at the World Assembly elections in June that year, just 26 years of age, a mother of two children, and then a legal student. She received a vote and was the only woman to sit at the council then. Only five women had sat in the General Assembly before that time, and she was the youngest of them all. Ragnhildur was then the same as a housewife who had previously taken a store in Reykjavík. She was the youngest member of her council, and by then she had reached only half the age of her middle group members. At that time, half of them were born before 1900 C.E., and many of them disappeared at the end of the season when the ideal ship was completely destroyed in 1959. Ragnhildur was reelected during two elections, 1959, but he chose to disappear from Congress in 1963 to care for his family and the raising of children. Once again, it was elected at the Council of 1971 and was in 1979, then an outside season. She was once again a council member of 1983 and remained until the end of her council on spring of 1991. It was held at the Council for 24 years, with 28 total legislatures. After completing the law, Ragnhildur became a lawyer to the Mother's Control Committee and served that job for years, and she was editor of Laga Library. After her congregational skills ended, she lived for years abroad, where her husband was a judge. In many areas, Ragnhildur Helgadóttir served as a pioneer in political equality. She was the first woman to be president at the General Assembly, the president of the lower branch of the Council of 1961,1962, and again in 1974,1978. She became the second woman who sat on the minister's chair and first to sit on the Ministerial Class for a whole term. It became the Ministry of Education, 1983, and then Health and Human Services, 1985,1987. She became the first of women - and, indeed, of the Generals - for the arrival of a baby - school course, in 1960, then known as the disease - stricken predestination. With 35 years of political activity, Ragnhildur Helgadóttir found himself in a number of committees about new legislation, including about school, insurance, the subjects of the elderly, and the maternity of their birth. At that time, she spent several years on insurance advice. While outside the council, she had trust positions within her party, was in the central direction of the Independence Party, and was temporarily chairman of the National Association of Independence Women. At the Generals' scene, Ragnhildur used best of education, health and insurance, but he was also a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. She was actively involved in the international work of the Generals, was in the Council of Northern America, and was president of the Iceland Department of 1974◯1978 and president of the Council, first of women, in 1975. At that time, she served as a representative of the General Assembly of the Council of the European Parliament, who was chairman of the International Department of Iceland of 1987 ◯1991. As you can hear, Ragnhildur Helgadóttir was a very powerful member of his team of party, struggling, politically stable, had a clear vision, and was determined to enforce his ideals and his party. Her work did not always have peace, e.g. when she served as a minister. For example, the struggle of the free radio activity promoted by Ragnhildur became quite arduous. During her political career, she was able to resist a remarkable milestone in the rights of women, who were in general and who paid for the birthplace of women. Ragnhildur Helgadóttir was gentle in the way, in the manner, in the manner, in the manner, in the manner, in the manner, in the manner, in the manner, in the manner that he treated himself. She had a rich sense of humor, and she always had a smile. In times of conflict, however, her face could become harsh. She was perturbing in discussions, conscientious, hardworking, and precise in her work here at the General Assembly and prepared well for all work. Ragnhildur, as well as literature and art, was deeply rooted in Icelandic culture, love of his country, and his nature. She was a friend who had a rich sense of justice, an equal estimate, and understanding, helping those who lived in palaces. The Ragnance of the Ragnhildur Helgadóttir will always be remembered as the head of culture and the equal struggle of Icelandic women. I ask a council to remember the Ragnhildur Helgadóttir by getting up. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u2	In a letter dated January 27, January 27, the president has requested this, according to the 8th law of 1st. 13th par. Parliaments, by the Board of Directors and Control Committees, that she deals with the state's report on government contracts for a year's hospital hotel and about funding for the adult education of disabled people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u3	To answer, financial and economic secretary, health minister, social and housing minister, environment and resource minister, foreign minister and local secretary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u4	A respectable president. During the past weekend, the assessment of the comparison of the welfare system in Iceland and other parts of the North countries could be considered. This analysis was based on a new comparative report by the Norwegian Economic Committee on Social Affairs, which is based on official data. What is of interest when considering this assessment, and in view of the discussion that has taken place recently between the comparison between the health system in Iceland and the health systems in other neighboring countries, it is similar where people are exposed to social well - being, the services of children, the services of older citizens, the sky and the sea between the real life in Iceland and what people can expect in neighboring countries. The only area in which we do well and even better than any other country is growing, but it is not good; it is to subsidize an Icelandic crown, and it is not enough to make homeowners better with no interest on interest, than with Icelandic interest rates and interest improvements. It is shocking to see the comparison when it comes to child repairs and maternity. There are only children of single parents and of all the most earners in Iceland who enjoy child reforming in Iceland as we know so well and the difference is that it divides tens of billions. It is of particular interest to note that the compensation of two children to live together is 5,800. Iceland, but it should be $35,000. If Icelandic children sat at the same level as in the North countries. I'd like to ask the highest. Financial Minister: Is it not reason to revise the starving policy that the government has adopted in the child - reform system and in particular about the birthworm and to reevaluate the emphasis that the government's share showed to the budget to narrow down the areas of these reforms and take them from people in general? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u5	Mr. President. Comparative reports indicate that each of them gives a different picture. Now I have not studied this particular report at any time. A senator refers to, but I know other reports. I know reports from OECD, for example, from a conference I attended last year, published by the English Name of How Is Life? which says that in general Iceland has it very good in international comparison, e.g. In terms of access to health care, it seems to be an example in Iceland, and it applies to many other factors that matter the everyday lives of people. This is a special question for child welfare. It is called a starving policy, a policy that the government has followed for child reform. Two years ago, we significantly increased pediatric improvements and moved down the income scale with increasing revenues. Thus we made sure that more improvements would be more useful to smaller hands. Those in that position are in better cases, as it were, today than already was. A senator was in the government. Here it is claimed that child reforms have been overreached. Yet, a single parent with two children - less than seven years of age - does not fully lose its right to child - repairs until the person earns one million. Whether such a system is built up that even those with one million earners will get pedophiles, whether there is too much damage in such a system. I can say with what. A senator that we can do better and should do it, mainly through a valuable creation, but I don't think that we've been in the wrong sense when those who have as much resources as I have here are still enjoying child reforms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u6	A respectable president. There's obviously a reason for the highest. The secretary of finance to study this report because its conclusion is quite clear, that there are only children of single parents and of the most rich who benefit from children and not of children living together, and that child reforms of each child in Iceland are only about two thirds of what could be expected in other parts of the North countries. He may give an example, one single - parent example, but he avoids taking an example of a parent in living together, where the limit for a parent with one child starts just at 200 you. K. and the impairment will be full at 409 you. K. This, of course, is the reality of the problem. The government has decided not to increase the limit and change these support systems, which are available in all countries of the North, to subsidies. [[The president calls.]] It is the fundamental change that causes people to move out of the country to get welfare support that should be available in Iceland. There is absolutely no need to move people out to experience the experience that they can have natural support for the advancement of their children.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u7	Mr. President. The union has followed a policy where all are expected to get pedophiles regardless of income, have proclaimed that policy. At the same time, the United States says it can't and shouldn't lower the tax on the middle income. I believe that such reform systems, for example, are primarily to focus on those who are in need of additional provisions. Otherwise, we should keep taxes in balance. The way the Controversy proclaims - a thing that is to have taxes, including those with income, and a third tax step on those with 700 pounds. K. and more and then use the taxes to distribute again by the rules that men believe here in this hall that they can complete and be so reasonable that everyone should agree - is a policy that I do not follow. I believe the improving systems should be of primary value to those who do not have enough resources and we can help raise. Otherwise, we should leave people at peace with their little taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u8	Mr. President. I'd like to have a word here at the highest. Financial and economic secretary for the proposed sale of the government's ownership at the National Bank, i.e. More than 28% of that bank. Now it's pretty much known to everyone. Councilmen here at me and the highest. Ministers do not necessarily debate the opinion of how best to sell a share in the Lands Bank. I've talked about the natural idea that we're looking at another thought into the financial system. For example, I would have liked to see much further in the restructuring of the financial system and that there would be an end to the separation of business and investment banking activities while we can say that the state is in this position to hold the property that the state is holding over now. I also agree with the ideas as well. paritaprevir The head of the Economic and Business Committee, Frosti Sigurjónsson, has thrown in the bank of the Lands Bank as a community bank. He has pointed out that interest payments from the bank are now higher than the cost of the State on interest costs, and at least it is not time to sell the item at the bank. But regardless of all these differences in how we want to see the financial system, I want to ask the highest of the questions. Minister, in view of what has been pointed out by those who are dealing with these matters and who are writing on these matters, the highest. Minister - in view of the fact that the Bank Management Board has been introducing a new report on possible sales, which in itself shows that there is no pressure on selling this item - it is considered useful to obtain at the highest price for the bank that it has been submitted, has been set down in the budget of this year. However, I ask, " Is it not unlikely that at the same time, selling a share in Arion's bank is also selling the share of the State in the Bank of the Lands Bank? ' Will that sale, sale to the State of Arion Bank, not cause the value of the item to go down, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u9	Mr. President. I sometimes feel that when we speak here about the Princepp question, about whether the state should be overwhelming at a financial market in Iceland or not, some people avoid the core of the matter and go out in many parts of the world. I feel like some--I'm not going to say it's a characteristic of what happened. A senator - in this discussion, in general, is fishing in cloudy water. It's out and out. I have a relatively simple, clear line on this case. It's this: I don't see the state as the head of the financial system in Iceland for a long time. That's my vision. There are others here in the Assembly Hall who clearly speak of the state as being in a higher position in a financial market. But, as it is, the government has nothing other than what it inherited from the left government, which is starting to sell on property at the Bank of Lands Bank. It's weird to listen to what's happened. A senator who comes up here says that he objected to being sold four years in a government that suggested that the object be sold every year. So the law has not been changed by the current government. We took the law to be sold in the Lands Bank as an inheritance from the former government. We're following that course. Now it is that I have not yet been suggested to the council for sale. But the question should be answered: Is it not bad to sell when we receive a small price? Isn't it bad to sell when there's too much stock in banks? Should we be selling if we need to give up the item? Of course not! Of course, the government will not use for sale on property unless the market is correct. But she's in the mood of thinking that it should be loosened and paid off debt. [[The president calls.]] And talking about interest, of course, is the way, and it's already happening, that there's gonna have to be a bottle of the Lands Bank and that's why banks of Iceland will have to be worth tens of billions before it's sold.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u10	Mr. President. In itself, I don't know who these are as the highest. Minister's talking about. I've expressed the opinion here, despite the record of the last government, that I think it is very reasonable to look for a longer time with a changed policy on the financial system. I think that's where we need to take a little new thought. When we talk about community banking, it doesn't just mean state bank, like we do at the highest. Ministers have talked a little, it also means a bank that looks to other viewpoints. We can mention based reasons, such as the climate goals we are going to achieve that will be achieved only by the access of the financial system. There is a need for a change in thinking in the financial system, and we now have a position to introduce them to a change of thinking. I'm glad to hear it. There's a minister here who says it's not his intention to sell for subservation. I think we need to face the fact that while we're overexploited, we can say, in Icelandic banks, there's a risk of not becoming as high as it might be. I'd like to finally ask the highest. Minister. [[The president calls.]] He says things will happen before the council. But that's primarily, isn't it, Mr. President, in the form of introductions? Take care of the highest. In view of the fact that the warrant is included, a minister will directly submit this proposal to the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u11	Mr. President. I was merely referring to a legal proposal for a sale at the bank of the state. It's all going to be explained. It is simply so that it will be explained. When it is said that we need to have a different bank in the future, I think that many who have participated in the discussion have not studied enough how much has already been changed. Let's see, for example, your own financial requirements. Let's see them, for example. When the Lands Bank was sold last, he had 67% of his money. He has over 20% of his own money today, probably one of the best funded banks in Europe. Yet, I have said that I think it is right to take out of the bank a substantial amount of free money before being sold, but still the bank's personal money becomes about 20%. This alone, although not all the other things that have already been legalized, will completely alter the entire risk behavior of this bank and other banks in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I'll just mention it as one example. It's wrong that everything is as it used to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u12	A respectable president. On November 17, 2015, the society of prisoners and other interested persons on improving prison affairs and correction wrote a letter to the National Law Association of Iceland. There the Society sent copies to various members, including the Council of Justice, Internal Affairs, and Others, who complain or point out complaints that many of the Sanitian members have submitted over the past decade because of grueling legal skills made by lawyers. They report that it is difficult to obtain defenders, that they will come in a wrong setting in court, and some other material that will be discussed in the letter itself and in a report on the matter. It calls for a special examination of the distribution of lawyers to the defense as a prisoner's experience, and, in fact, claims to have chosen lawyers get more of the criminal rights because the police themselves contact these attorneys to whom they are choosing the task. It is not the NGO of Iceland's Police Association, and foreigners are not told that they can choose lawyers or get another lawyer, but they are also assigned to these lawyers. The letter explains a lot of resentment over all of this and is called upon to be examined by the group of languages. That's why I'm asking the highest. Interior Minister: Has there been an examination of the arrangements for defenses to be chosen for the defendants and prisoners? Does this view harmonize with the interests of the defendants and meet the minister's expectations of prison security?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u13	V.E.G. President. I suppose that's what it is. A senator is also looking for a position on how public defenders will be selected when people are interrogated by the police and such things if I understood the inquiry correctly. We haven't been involved in that kind of stuff in the State Department. I'm aware of the letter as it is. A senator is a member of the Ministry. I have no numbers on this in rhythms, how it's being handled, how it's chosen by lawyers, but I think it's wise, as always, to get more out of the way of these rules. If there's something there that might go better, I'm sure you'll consider it. But I have seen no other source of frustration or comments from this system of things. I'm not going to tell myself that there can't be a discussion. At this point, I may not be able to go much further to answer the question. A senator, but this: We have this letter to treat the Ministry and we will answer it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u14	A respectable president. I'll ask them the highest. Interior Minister: It is not strongly possible to consider this arrangement or direct inquiries to members about what rules they should apply, as well as whether this will live up to the highest expectations. Ministers and Generals and consonants about prisoner safety? I think it's a good thing to mention especially where there's a prisoner. You see, I'm not sure that the same complaints from other people, since the danger in this category in general is that prisoners are automatically viewed as second, third, or fourth - rate citizens who are vulnerable to the grueling practices of government. I'd appreciate it if I'd get it clear from a minister if she'd take care of this matter and get the information it takes to shed light on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u15	A respectable president. It is fundamental to all of us that justice is being maintained in our country. That is true for everyone, for there is no exception. So, of course, we will also look at it. General on the rights of prisoners and positions, that's a discussion we've taken here at the General Assembly. Now, when we're talking in general about the equipment of prisoners, the full bill is for the treatment of a global and educational committee. I have also described certain opinions myself regarding the subsequent aspects, but I want to reiterate what I've always said that I think it's important that all the rules are clear and official and open. It may have been our vision in the Ministry to go further and further on. I don't think that's the exception of this group when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to make up the subject of an invitation to customs, and a court that recently fell out of the country's way of retrieving half a billion to the store or importer. This may be a little complicated, but it turns out that a minister has a choice as to whether he will use a messenger or a coin. In fact, the courts judged a minister to be too widespread an taxation authority. Our last stand was changed to the secret place of night. I will tell you. The export was established, the adjustment was made, and the case was in fact never told. that part of the matter never had any comment. This is where you paid the highest. Ministers and the Independence Party, advocates of freedom of business, votes with the change. She assumes that there's supposed to be tollovate, which means that it's actually consumers who pay the end of the bottle, because, of course, this goes out into the prices. A bright future has brought about a change in plans for the other way to go, i.e. that lots should be cast. There is no simple way in this matter, but it is a better way because the goal of customs is, of course, to import agricultural products where there is no cost to consumers. I want to take this opportunity to ask the highest. Minister: Why did he support the change in the way the export was established? Does he not support the bright prospect of throwing lots so that consumers will enjoy them?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u17	Mr. President. You're right. A senator says, these are not quite simple. This is a lawsuit that is, in fact, under the agricultural minister. In this quoted court, the lack of legal rights to hide the minister's authority to choose between these two options was a crucial factor. I think that the bill referred to, and later the law, after it was pointed out that the office of authority for the Minister to determine these matters was almost legal. That, then, is the main explanation for the selection. The extent of this conclusion's impact on possible reimbursement during this period of law, how much reimbursement will be made to those who paid according to the auction method, in the end it is considered as a matter of view which way they would like to go. At least, though, you would expect an efficient market to develop a price on these tollgos, reflecting the price of what consumers would be willing to pay for that product. Once again, it is a contract for the government to negotiate with other countries to set the amount and to what extent we enter the second market by opening the doors for agricultural production into Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u18	A respectable president. It's exactly like the highest. A minister explained the matter, but our position is that a worse option was chosen when a person changed the law. It is far better to use the way to cast lots because we are talking about customs, these are not large meals, but the goal is to bring food to the country to a lower price for consumers. An incredibly efficient market -- yes, it would be normal if the market law was true at all, but they certainly don't do it here, rather than anywhere else, let alone in a grocery store. I thought it was a lost conclusion, and I felt it was done under the cover of night. In this case, I wondered about the 500 million. Will they be returned to the consumers? How will this be done? The highest. At least a minister of finance will agree with me on a claim to a seller, that in any way they will bring it back to consumers, however they do it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u19	Mr. President. I agree with it. A senator's main words, as I understand it, are of great importance when we build agrienvironment schemes, whether within the country or regarding the import, considering consumer positions. Under that, I can take my mind away. In what way the store will be able to return this to consumers, I will realize, but it would certainly be desirable to see it happen in some way. When I say that the price of consumers ready to pay for the product is likely to be paid for, too, that if nothing is paid for the product, such as for tollkotan, as appropriate in lots, there may be room for growing stress in demand for the product. [[The president calls.]] That's one of the things to look at. But I reiterate what I said in my first speech, we are discussing a language that is not directly in my language field. But I appreciate it. A senator for recording this consumer case that I believe is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u20	President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to what seems to me to be the least strange funds to provide the aid of the country's documentary films, which have been reported this weekend. There are 3 million that the government brought together, from me, and then 3 million that the minister of foreign affairs specifically provided on a source of refugees. It's a natural job to make a documentary about refugees, but it's not what this matter is about in my mind. It's the equality of the people to collect money from a government fund. I'd like to ask the highest. First of all, a minister of what kind this money is coming. Does he know of the government's financial funding? He must know exactly what the State Department's funding force is. It says in the news that he had consulted a development research agency in the Ministry on this. Does this mean, then, that the scholarship comes from a team of developing co-workers, not from a minister's provision? It's a mystery to me. I'd love to go to the top. A minister explained this to me a little more.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and for giving the opportunity to discuss this matter at the Assembly Hall. It is true that the decision has been made not only to create a documentary but also to develop a study course that would be useful to young children or school - age children regarding refugees and their receipts and the entire process in which they live. It was a very peculiar news release on this matter in the U.S. Radio News Office, and it made me think when it was specifically noted that the person applying for it was the former deputy member of the Assembly and former chairman of the Board of Refugees. He was a deputy council member in the last 2000, and it is likely that he served as chairman of the Council of Refugees. There was also spoken to a woman in this news class who is chairman of the Union of Icelandic artists, if I recall correctly, and then supported that fine woman was the minister of the left green, a member of the government, and also a member of the council. The Kingdom News did not see why it was mentioned in this report. I think it's very strange. The money that came on this project is one of the government's budget, 3 billion. K. It comes from there, and then there's the same amount of money that's in the development team at the State Department, which we believe is very well spent there. It is very important that we take advantage of the opportunity to describe the journey that refugees need to take when they receive them and when they take their dangerous steps, that we show their circumstances, and how life works when they arrive in Iceland. I think that's a very good and important thing. The principle of this fine assignment had a movie club, i.e. The Árni Gunnarsson took the initiative and turned to the Ministry of State with his idea. We talked about it at the Ministry, including. to the development network, whether it was a worthwhile project. [[The president calls.]] Everyone agreed that this was a very good and worthwhile assignment to describe this situation and show what awaits these good people who are coming to our home.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u22	A respectable president. I wasn't asking about the man's political opinions on this project. Besides, I wasn't asking about political opinions or the head of the Union of Icelandic artists. I wasn't asking that at all. I was asking how these funds are distributed from public funds. I understand that the government has a provision money and a special help for that, and it can provide funds for a special project. However, I find it quite strange that the minister of foreign affairs is taking money from this kind of financial force in a developing research agency. I wonder, " How can such strength be applied? ' Have the minister of foreign affairs begun to decide what to do in school? Again, I say. The project can be worthy, but all the general rules and equalities called are ignored in this society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-01-70.u23	A respectable president. Of course, you're wrong. A senator says that all protocols and protocols and equality are overlooked and so on. For many years it has been recognized that government funds are new in strengthening good projects. For example, we strengthened the child opera Bellurs, the opera Ragnhöf, from these financial teams. [[Up front.]] That's how it is, for information for what. - A senator... - In case. A senator now allows the minister to speak here, she may find out about it. [[Developmental cooperation projects...]] You see, that's why the so-called DAC-batter, which we know well from earlier this year's discussions and the last, does... -...all and well, yeah, maybe, yeah. A senator - assumes that certain funds are used for information giving and to share information about what humans are doing in developing cooperation. [[To the point: way too well.]] This is an example of this. There's information being distributed. It is creating material, footage that will benefit us, and hopefully it will also use the international community to see how refugees are treated, how their lives will be mutated for the better in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
