ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u1	There will be time for a conference between the clocks. 13 and 14 today, and after that, it is estimated that votes will be made. So, votes begin at 2 p.m. 14 today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u2	To answer, financial and economic ministers, health ministers, social and housing minister, environmental and resource ministers and foreign ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u3	Mr. President. The call for the restoration of the health system to be heard by some 86 thousand Icelanders and 11% of the gross domestic product will be spent for health care is unique. Politicians need to answer how to achieve that goal and set priorities. V.E.G. Healthcare Ministers know this as well as I do that there is a great need for building up health care around the country. Bad situation, for example. at the hospital, there is a reason to be concerned about the safety of patients if the next few years do not improve. In that light, if the demand for the people were to depend on about 11% of GDP, the National Hospital would have an increase of 18 billion each year. It's a good long-term goal, but it's not realistic to expect such an increase in one step, where Iceland should be heading. When the government's financial plan was submitted on April 29, 2000. the nation's demand for health care structure was clear. The general public has had enough and requires reversal of negative trends. For the next five years, the government plan for health care does not take into account this demand of the common people. That's why I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: Was the decision made in the government not to listen to this demand of the people?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u4	A respectable president. Listening to what is very strange. A member will discuss that the government budget does not take into account the requirement for greater contributions to health care when considering the emphasis on this category is placed in the budget until 2021. When I discussed this matter, I remember well and introduced the seminary health care committee to the time when the financial program was there for discussion, the emphasis being placed on it. If only we look at hospital services, where expenses are growing from 2016 to 2021 from over 75 billion to over 90 billion dollars. And there is talk that there is no upcoming requests for additional donations in the hospital service. I call it growth, it may well be a why. A senator has a very different understanding of this. Similarly, in the financial program it is expected that there will be 12% improvement in the quality of health care outside the hospital during the planned period. In the same way that I made a budget report, it is anticipated that during the planned period, there will be more than five new nursing homes. I call it improving the ministry. I'll be the first to agree with what. A senator may well be able to do better in this regard, as do many others, but it is a long way from believing that there is some special will in this country to ignore the emphasis the people of the country have on this series. On the contrary, I want less of it. A senator is to be returned from the law as long as possible. In 2013 a senator has reported an increase in expenses for this group of paintings to 40 billion dollars. [[The president calls.]] Some would have called that money.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u5	Mr. President. The fact is, though, that in order to maintain the same service and maintenance of housing, the Landsaholic would need another 5.3 billion in the next year. The budget allows only 2.3 billion for both the Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital, aquifer when the hospital needs 5.3 billion dollars. If the government's plan becomes established, it is clear that the services of the Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri will be drawn together, but it sounds like the greatest. I ask a health minister who is happy with policy, so I ask him: "Do I acknowledge the highest standard? Health Ministers, not that if the budget is made available to hospital services in the country before 2017 and the next five years, will the hospital services be intertwined? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u6	A respectable president. Listening to what is bad is amazing. A senator, former secretary of finance, talks about the budget set up until five years ago, a landmark plan, as if it were a proposal for the next year's budget bill. It's not a proposition for a budget bill. It is recognized, and it is at the point. A senator to recognize as a legal body member that there is much leeway in the budget to meet individual expenses. And to discuss in this context that 5.3 billion people in the Land Hospital were missing at 190 billion health care programs and were crucial. It's just not normal to discuss this from that comparison. I agree that according to government plans, whether in the financial program or in the basis that next year's funds, the service of the International Hospital or the Akureyri Hospital is not expected to be intertwined. That's wrong. A senator's suggesting this, and it is not reasonable to discuss health issues in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u7	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance and the procurator of the Independence Party in a word he published on his Facebook page about the state of the media, which describes concern over the state of the Icelandic media because of lack of money and resources, and the media say that there is a lack of direction, goals, and messages, and is actually meaningless beyond being present for those working there. This is quite a heavy word from the chairman of the largest political party in the country, especially in the light of the situation in Iceland and elsewhere in the Western world, in times of technological change, in times of community media, where consumers of the traditional media have become ill - equipped to carry out their role as to serve the public and enable the public to make a difference in established information and other material flowing on community media, such as From us politicians, all of whom walk out our Facebook pages. V.E.G. A minister goes out to ask: Why is it not just one open Facebook page that replaces the media, as it is, all sorts of opinions? As if the media were meant to be a single mouthpiece. Of course, such words come with responsibility in the case of the Chairman of the largest political party in the country, especially when we see that Iceland is the only northern country that is not on the top of a 10 - number of media freedoms in the world. And it's a little interesting that Iceland was on that top ten lists two years ago, but has crashed more than ten seats, most notably due to the political debate on the media. Of course, politicians may criticize the media for their views, but I don't think the minister's words show that he does not make much distinctions between what we call just standard social media and what we should insist on being professional media, even though there are various opinions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is it not, then, much more appropriate to suggest some measures to improve the situation of the media than to recite it in this way?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u8	A respectable president. It was hard for me to define a core in this inquiry. Is it not proper to make suggestions for the media? In fact, I think there is good reason to wonder, if it may not be so because of technological changes and other things that have made it difficult for the media in the country to ask themselves if there is anything in the outside, something in the legal environment, the tax environment, that we can do to more fully trust the media in the country and thereby protect the important purpose that the media have. Otherwise, I have no choice but to understand why. A senator is so depressed about one light Facebook entry. I was simply wondering that when you look at the media environment in Iceland today, you feel that there is a lack of editorialism in many parts of the world when you see one inspection today and another tomorrow, a number of things come forward, and the media is left as an empty shell. [[...your own course.]] I don't know why it's that senators get so excited about you opening up in this discussion. Is this some particular sensitive subject for members of the council in this room? [[Up front.]] I just can't make it. It's just a simple thought about the status of the media in the country, and a lack of the powerful, powerful media with a clear message that is a thread from day to day, but it will not be just a horn for those working there. It's just my experience, and I'm not gonna apologize to the senators in this chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u9	Mr. President. I wasn't asking the highest. Minister to apologize and not particularly upset about the case and to beg. Also, a minister is not sensitive to the fact that his words are addressed here. [[Up front.]] It is only natural that we demand that words follow responsibility, especially in the case of the highest degree. Minister, Chairman of the largest political party in the country. He mentioned here, yeah, I'm sure you can have some action. And I wondered what the government could do, governments at any given time, General. It's us who set up a legal environment for the media, that government that increased the share of the Kingdom News in a commercial market, across a course that had been established during the first term. [[Up front.]] For the rest of the media in the country, it was the decision of the present government. V.E.G. A minister notes that there may be something to do, but at the same time he may feel that there is only one political opinion on each media. [[Up front.]] I feel that shouldn't be a different opinion from day to day, said the highest. Minister before. [[Up front.]] Then you ask: If people are concerned about the status of the media, wouldn't it be wise to say it in an upbuilding way rather than throw it in the front of the media that it would be better to start just one Facebook page?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u10	A respectable president. I'm going to ask members of Congress not to put words in my mouth. You can be in the media business in Iceland for my sake and change your mind every day and pump out any bullshit, so go ahead. It will be my experience on the media that it isn't worth the money, it won't have anything to do with what flows from there. For God's sake, don't put the word in my mouth that I expect there to be some sort of editorialism or a special politics fired on the media, that Iceland's media should be run in one political direction. It's all bullshit. And what I notice is that what I notice is that it's wrong. However, a senator seems to agree that the media environment is difficult. There's a lot of weakness in the media environment. So we can't talk about it? Was I not pointing to things that might be helpful in the media companies so that I could better fulfill the role that we have always put on? For example, a report by the media committee of this time was very much discussed and how important it is for society to have the media living under the circumstances that allow them to fulfill their role properly. [[The president calls.]] It's just my experience that they're not doing it today, and it sounds like the Senator's agreeing, so why don't we just focus on it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u11	President. Now the bill on changes in maternity leaves has not been distributed, but I determined that when a minister discussed the situation in the media, I did not feel that it was too clear in her debate how to finance these changes. So I wanted to ask myself, " How exactly should these changes be financed? ' If so, how should you react, e.g. if there was an increase or increase in children? One of the evidence that there is room for these measures is how little babies have been reduced in the country in the past few years. I'd like to ask if they've precisely calculated how much to raise, for example. The insurance fee, if it happened that we'd be borrowing kids in Iceland. Then I also wanted to ask the minister when to submit this bill, if it is ready, and if the minister expects it to be completed at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u12	A respectable president. I thank the senator very much for your inquiry. I know we what we're doing. A senator is both very interested in the law, the great law code that has come to terms with the better family of children in Iceland. In terms of the cost of the bill, we are now working on the cost assessment at the Ministry, but the committee responsible for these changes calculated the cost of those suggestions. Thus, under the laws now, there is an estimated 8.8 billion spending on the stocks. It's probably due to births, like what they have. A senator mentioned a reduced number. The pay, however, has increased in return, so it is assumed that the changes in the system of payment are either 100% of its pay up to 300,000 dollars. and that the maximum pay will be 80% up to 600,000, with 12.2 billion per 4,700 children at that cost. Last year almost 4,100 children were born. Regarding the prolongation of the birthworm, and the major disagreement, he was made very clear on the Committee, it is suggested that it be extended by one month during the period of 2019◯2021 and that if there are mothers who receive the month, it is estimated to be around 1,250 million, but if fathers, it is estimated to be some 1.6 billion. In terms of funding, I think it's not long since that came up, in a press release at the Ministry of finance, that due to the increase in pay, insurance has turned up a substantial increase in money into the state's budget without raising it. I believe that it is right to set aside money to improve the quality of our families in Iceland. We also see in the numbers I got in my hands yesterday that in Iceland there is a further decrease in unemployment, so that the funds given by the Congress don't go out, which is very good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u13	President. Although I'm very into this operation, it's clear that a minister has to find another budget to finance these changes. It had long since been promised that the insurance bill should be lowered. As a result of the financial collapse, there was an increase in unemployment, and I know that many smaller companies have been difficult to cut down on. Let us not forget, then, that having a high insurance fee is not justified in preventing unemployment if it becomes a unemployment shot or an increase in unemployment and then intending to reserve it for something else that is really disloyal. I feel that these changes are uncertain, undetectable, and I wish to get clearer answers about how to do so, let's say that it will be, for example. increased unemployment in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u14	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator must disagree on this. I'd like to support children's families in Iceland. I think it's necessary to rebuild the birthworm system again. I think, too, as far as I've been able to tell. And I've informed them. A senator and other senators, that there is room to make significant improvements in the welfare of pension recipients. It is also the insurance bill that finances much of that expenses. There's been a lot of money left over. I think he'll be very great, according to the numbers we have on the table this year, and to me, it was always clear that we were going to correct the house debt, start the economy, and then we were going to use money to improve the welfare system. That's what my bills do, and I expect them to do it, and I hope that the senator certainly revised his stand. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u15	A respectable president. As a response to the high level of mortgage prices and interest in mortgage loans in Iceland, a financial minister has introduced two prime returns, another is the prohibition of insurance, or it is to forbid some people to take away prices and preferably those who do not really need to borrow that kind of loan, so I don't really know exactly what it is, so it is the bill of first estate that should be used to help young people buy their first estate, even though I don't really see that young people, most of whom are studying in the period of time, will be able to collect a piece of dig in the special property at the same time. But it may be possible that someone will be comfortable with it. It is noted that by their actions now and by other irresistibly action of a housing market, such as the breakdown of debt, the minister of finance is again giving qualifications to the housing market when the underlying problem is evident. The problem is that there are too much interest here, the effects of insurance insurance will be too high because economic government has over the years been without self - control, the financial system defends itself against this mismanagement, and so on. We are the secretary of finance, not by taking up a constant currency here, not by exercising economic discipline and not offering 80 billion to some in exchange for power. No, the method is custodyism and a absurdly unremarkable state exchange of real estate markets where prices will just continue to rise, and the problem will wind up. I would like to ask if a minister really has no plan in that subject. Does he not see that Iceland could be such a country as the countries around us that there are 2% of unsavourable housing interest here? Has he not believed that Iceland will ever get into the condition that financial institutions in a stable environment will compete to lend interest to people in those interest? A politician who does not have that vision, does not believe that this is possible in patches and unsolved measures to make life acceptable to the people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u16	A respectable president. This is a very large subject that we are actually going to discuss today with special members of Congress, but it is likely that we are trying to cope on a very short matter. It is wrong that this is mainly the case with large interest rates and insurance with the bills laid before the council today that will be discussed today. Here we are dealing with the fundamental problems that are hard to see, that young people find it difficult to store for a head chair in order to earn their first down payment in an apartment. It has never been easy to gather a capital chair to pay for an apartment sale in Iceland, but this is a procedure that gives tax charge to do so more easily. Of course, in terms of the recovery of growth and the guarantee of a more stable price, it is much bigger than just having something to do with these matters. I have to say, in this ideal period, I've had to stand up for government policy in terms of agreements, and I've been beaten by the secretary of finance for not taking an immediate stand for 50% of the pay raise throughout the community. It doesn't matter who did it. The pay of the low-payers, the middle carers, and the highest-payers had to be largely increased. So just before then, the chairman of the United States was complaining that there was no more spending money in long-term financial programmes. They want to pump money out of government funds and big-time pay and then come here in a pit and ask: How is it that Iceland's interest is as high as it really is? And what's the value of this insurance? Why is inflation a ongoing problem? Could this be because there has been no solid agreement in the way of the new law that we now set up on public finances, follow long - term schedules, do not have legitimate demands on injecting money out of a government fund? Also, unfortunately, the development of long - term ground between government and labour markets has not been successful in calculating the basis for the real scope for the increase in pay. [[The president calls.]] This is the answer to how we reduce growth and get away from insurance in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u17	A respectable president. I find it sad that everyone else is so impossible that growth cannot be lowered. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is in a key position to do so. He does so in terms of discipline, and he does so by not pouring out 80 billion dollars from the financial fund. A bright future did not want that. It was the highest. A minister who did it. [[Up front.]] It was the highest. A minister who did it. [[Up front.]] It is to exercise discipline in terms of government matters, in order that there may be a continuing economy, that growth may be scanty. It is sad to learn that the chairman of the Independence Party and the Supreme Court. The Secretary of the economy has no idea how to arrange it. [[Up front.]] No, it's just another fault. Somehow, it's a professional thing. V.E.G. Minister is there, on the key position. I'm sad to hear that he doesn't have a better prospect than this. [[Up front.]] Alloying into the market is what this highest one does. A minister stands before him, and this will lead to increased housing prices and will not allow young people to be easily settled into a house market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u18	A respectable president. Hv. A senator says that I have no answers and would like to blame others. But that's not what I was doing. I pointed to ways that have proved to be very good for other countries and that are successful, e.g. A basis now for the cooperation that we have considered SALKK today. The fact is, no one can solve this, no one in the government. The workforce can neither be alone, nor can it be arranged. This is a matter of building trust between key members of society and cohesion with a common vision. That's what's lacking. It's just the way it is. This game is trying to point out that it's this man who's responsible for the insurance policy and that's this one that's responsible for big growth -- it's just bullshit. This discussion is bullshit. [[Up front.]] With Icelanders, we must face the fact that there are laws and laws in this world. [[Up front.]] If they want to stay here at the council, there's a demand for huge government spending every year, and if the employee movement wants a big increase in salary every year, the result is the one that was just described. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I say, it's not an answer, it's as good as it is. A senator offers, saying that we just pick up another currency. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u19	V.E.G. President. The government budget says on page 20. Two hundred and twenty-one, with the permission of the President: Then the arrangement needs to be adjusted for child support in some cases that is too far up - to - date, which counteracts the primary goal of being solely supportive of the most efficient family. Too far up the income field, tops. President. This is an independent party message and a forwarding party to middle - income family with children. [[Up front.]] Consider, for example, an Icelandic middle - income family with a total of one million each month. They have four children, just like me and the highest. Secretary of finance, that's quite common in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u20	Not together, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u21	They are 1 3 years old, 13 years old, and 15 years old. The Icelandic couple receive 14 of you. K. in a month of child support. 14 up. K. A similar family in Norway is getting much higher, 54 you. K. per month. But if we go to Sweden and Denmark, what will get comparable families in a month on child support? 81 o'clock. K. In addition to their provisions, the highest. President. The difference is intense between Iceland, Sweden and Denmark. Icelandic children's families in an intermediate group are with 67 of you. K. less in provision for a month than the same family there. Each year, it is more than 800 of you. K. I pray to the highest degree. Prime Minister to explain to me and to my children why he wants to raise his tax returns to family members in an intermediate - income group.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u22	A respectable president. It is thus by means of our improved systems that we have considered that we have limited amounts of money to control, that we have limited funds to cover compensation. When you have limited funds, you look at the stage and ask yourself, " Where do I want to send this money? ' We feel that we should be more concerned with those most in need who have mentioned among their hands, those who have the lowest income, and who live at the most in need. The United States has always felt that it doesn't matter. We're supposed to take child reforms and other improvements and distribute them to all equally regardless of income. Today, we're paying a child's settlement all the way down, if I remember correctly, about 900 you. K. a certain family situation. In the long - term schedule referred to, it is merely to say that if we are to be nice to those who have mentioned between the hands, we have to reduce the relief to those who have more. That's the direction I support. Besides, it's nice to keep it up when people say that middle - incomeers in other countries get a much higher rate of child support, which is ultimately paying for their child support. Of course, there are taxpayers in those countries. This discussion cannot be addressed without looking at the entire tax sector. [[Up front.]] I'm glad that people in Iceland think it's right to carry provisions and expectations for making arrangements for one of the richest countries in the world. Is it not good that we feel that we are in a position to compare ourselves with what is best in the world? Let's keep going because I believe that if we take one step at a time, we'll continue to work toward what's best happening in the world in these things and that we can live among the middle-of-the-world living things in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u23	V.E.G. President. I'm going to have to grieve at the highest. For example, a minister of finance is not able to compare himself with what is best in the world because the difference is so shouting. Childbirths are decreasing in Iceland. If we look at the development of birthworm and child reform, we can see economic reasons for this. The social balance is best achieved by a stepwise tax system, not by a flat tax system, as the government announces. Child support is a tax price to pay for a child's family in order to make it easier for their children to make progress. [[Up front.]] The government offers higher taxes on family members by doing this. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he is willing to abandon this path and support our recommendations in the United States for child improvement and thus a reduction in the rate of children's families.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u24	A respectable president. Peds that pay evenly to everyone are nothing like taxes, just nothing. The question remains: Why would the Conspiracy want to follow the policy of taking only limited funds and distributing them to all equally regardless of what their social situation is? [[Take it up: the treasure of the loan.]] That's the problem with the Conspiracy policy. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] It simply leads to a growing trend deeper in the pockets of taxpayers in order to collect funds that they themselves intend to divide out of society. It's a course we haven't followed yet. This should not surprise anyone. My opinion is that when it comes to the reformers, we should direct the funds to where the need is most necessary, we should. Besides, we're supposed to let people have as much of their resources as possible so that they don't have to rely on money. Thus, the changes in housing support are being made with new capitals recommended by the Department of Social Affairs, and I know that. A senator is well pleased with the changes we see. [[The president calls.]] They are good because they enable people to stand on their own feet but do not have to rely on government benefits. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u25	Mr. President. I'm gonna come down here and celebrate a program as high as I can. Mr President has set us up. Especially do I celebrate the case of No. 4, on the support to buy at the first apartment, and on interest on interest and insurance. I've been missing months trying to get discussions with the forward party on decommissioning insurance. It hasn't been working, it hasn't run, it hasn't. President, even though it was his main vote code. I'm finally going to have a chance to talk to future candidates on this subject, and I'm really happy to do that. It's gonna be a fun day, chief. President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u26	The president has to grieve. A senator who had hoped for a bit later begins his entertainment. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] He's got to take a quick break at this council meeting, hopefully for about three minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u27	A respectable president. I recommend a bill for support at the first apartment. The bill suggests that individuals who are buying their first apartment will be supported by legal firms so that they will be allowed to protect their own tax money from money. The options are permanent, but the bill suggests that a person's provision takes additional fees paid over a continuous ten - year period. It is suggested that the maximum individual budget can be considered on the basis of the bill for a total of 5 billion. K. over a continuous ten-year period or together up to a maximum of 500 points. K. every 12 months during a continuous ten-year period. Thus, the bill has many similar findings in current accounts on the identification of special property savings and its provision, though, including except in the bill, the maximum financial value is applied to an individual without any regard for his marital status. Thus, two individuals who buy their first apartment together can study to a maximum of 10 million. K. The bill then suggests that a person who intends to take advantage of it will have not previously been registered as owner of an apartment building. It is also made necessary that at least a person who takes advantage of the bill is registered as owner of the bill. A 50% share in the apartment building business. In case of a person's spending in the ten - year period, this results in a loss of his rights because of that period. However, an individual will be authorized to re-activate the court and restore the payment of additional fees within the period and can then set the pay limits in accordance with the regulations of the bill until the 10-year-old period is reached. The bill provides three ways that a person can choose between a provision of an additional fee: First, the assessment of an additional collection of expenses to buy at the first apartment. This is a assessment that should be of particular benefit to the head seat. Second, a license to reserve additional fees on the loans of the head. This is a document that should be primarily used to reduce the loan of the head that has already been taken. Third, there is a warrant for an additional payment as a payment on uncertain loans and as a payment on its head seat. It is a so - called mixed way, with which, for those who choose to borrow unsecured loans, to join them in the first loan years when the payment rate is just what we weigh. According to the bill, a person will be allowed to change his or her disposition within the ten - year period. The bill also suggests that a person will be allowed to sell his own apartment with the support the bill provides and replace it with new ones and continue using the resources of the bill. However, the schedule of the extra fees can never be longer than the ten - year continuous period of time, as I have been in the past. Here it is suggested that the bill take effect on July 1, 2017, or that the current provision for building an apartment building for its own use will run its course according to current law. It is suggested in the bill that there be two law rules: On the one hand, a person who has already begun the collection of pay for building an apartment building for his own use on the current provision for temporary purposes but has not availed himself of the authority for July 1st, 2017 will be authorized to use a cumulative payment based on the currently recommended bill. There is a requirement for buying the first apartment. On the other hand, a person who has already received a right on the basis of the current provision for temporary purposes and who has begun paying on the headstone loan will be allowed continued use of his additional fee to pay on loans made on the basis of the housing he acquired until the ten - year continuous period of the bill is reached. There is a requirement for buying the first apartment. This may sound complicated, but in reality it is simply that those who are buyers of the first apartment will be able to persevere will be able to continue collecting and using the resources. They lose no rights to the new bill. Rather, they benefit from the additional rights it contains. Finally, in the bill it suggests that the current provisional terms in terms of life insurance rights and pension funds will be provided through two years, up to 30 June 2019 for the added loans due to housing provided before July 1. Regarding the law and the conditions today, we are actually making a separation between those who have been inside the system and using it to obtain the first apartment. We're going to bring them into the new system and extend the court so that we can reach 10 years of age and raise the threshold. For all others who have been inside the system and are using it to collect or pave a head chair, we are extending the effects of current legislation by two years. I'm going to say a few more words to this review on the subject of the bill. In that case, it may first be that the priorities of the government that appear on the bill are normally followed by the action we have taken in the terms before. Debt correction, the measures we have used in the past to support people in reducing their housing debt, was at the time of a procedure that meant much to home to secure their own financial status because of their own housing and economic activities. It was an economic operation because at the beginning of the terms of the season, the total domestic debt was well over 100% of national production. The entire domestic debt had reached such heights that it could not be overlooked as an economic threat. And the mortgage debt has now dropped completely and is down to the equivalent of the turn of the century, which is an enormous step. We see the ratios in this context decline much faster than in all our neighboring countries. This is because, first of all, these measures have helped homes directly to fix on the head seat. The tribunal correction was a direct operation because payment from a government fund went directly onto the loan's head seat. In addition, we have been carrying the special savings method that has been used in some 40,000 people to lower their head position. Over the course of this period, property prices have gone up as noted during the discussion, and real - estate evaluations have increased because of the rise in the market. This, along with a large increase in domestic production, altered these proportions, so they are becoming much more acceptable, much better for homes than were only a few years ago. Interestingly, few countries are successfully changing these proportions as rapidly as we Icelanders. In fact, I don't know any examples of the rapid recovery of these proportions. That's what I'm going to let me mention, even though it doesn't tell the whole story. This is an indication of the economic status of the households, this is a very strong clue, and this is proof that the situation has improved very much. We must never forget, though, that each household has very little ability to wonder what their situation is about national production. What do I owe in proportion to national production? is not a question people wake up with in the morning. There are other clues that we have of the improving status of the households, e.g. the dissociation ratios in the banks that are rapidly improving. Once this change has been made, the oceans are increasingly directed toward other areas in the housing market. We have this bill not to the same extent to view debt as a special problem or subject, but we are extending the information for all two years in order to continue using our own savings. There may be two factors, one of which is that many people continue to want to reduce the debt of their home, their mortgages. Many people want to continue to do so, and they may be contributing to the country's savings in this way. As it turns out, there have been changes in Iceland's pensions, so now we are in general saving more money by increasing the pay on public markets to 15.5%. Looking ahead, it is clear that the same need for special property is not so long ago. Consequently, taking about one person's working years of work is not as much sacrificed as possible. ten years of special savings to this end because there is always a chance that the pension rights at the end of retirement will be better in the labour market than in the past, despite the ten years being taken aside. We look at this increasingly, and especially because of our first purchases, we are responding to the situation that smaller apartments have increased more than other housing in recent years. Young people seem to be studying longer. There has been evidence that the provision of young people, compared with those previously valid, is to decrease. The sewing process will go properly, but there may be explanations, including some. The fact that young people are longer in school and more in general at school than before. This as a result of increasing prices at a housing market, many find it very difficult to earn their first payment. I always want to keep it in place when it comes to the first down payment or the teleportation for apartment purchases that it has never been easy in Iceland to have a head chair to invest in an apartment. We do not argue that this will be very easy, but people are getting relief and giving taxes. It's a work stimulus, it's not being overcrowded, it's actually being shifted from special savings to housing, and we're giving the tax rate that goes directly to the mortgage conditions in the way I described before. This can make a difference for many. I hear from the discussion that this is more important to most of the income. It's out of proportion, but the court is always the same. It's the same tax rate, i.e. a full tax rate for all because of all that has been put aside in special savings. In that respect, the procedure is totally neutral and complete. It doesn't make any difference, but by wearing an upper roof on how much tax charge you can get in a year, we're taking out the biggest earner out of the game. In time, humans will no longer benefit from the arrangement. The discussion on this subject has therefore been discussed whether this will result in a large increase in housing prices in the country. It is only natural to ask yourself: " Does not the game's demand side? But looking at the demand side in recent years, at the same time that there has been a lack of the supply gate, has largely led to a major change in the proportion of people living in their own housing, in contrast with the proportion of rent - house living, i.e. lack of housing for affordable prices has become the basis for the gross expansion of the tenet. In our discussion here, people often say: There is no lease in Iceland. That's so wrong, there's an incredible number of people out there in the rented market. It's not an inexpensive option, but this market has become very large and has become a significant part of the global housing market in Iceland. This is especially true in the capital area. When saving people for their first investment, it is possible to provide valid reasons that they will lead further to improvement in housing markets, where people who are trapped in a rented environment they may not want to be inside will be able to put aside and move to their own housing and that they will more likely reduce the demand in the tenet market.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u28	How are you going to help the others?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u29	When asked from the hall, "How do you help the others? " We have already answered what options we see available for all the most earners who fail to see themselves able to put aside the wages they are on. Then I refer to the basics that this year's council has taken care of general social apartments and housing benefits that observe the circumstances of these people. We've already seen e.g. Iceland's Common Association presents a very large number of housing plans, on the basis of that arrangement, on the basis of this system. It is working to ensure that there is only a specific percentage of total wages that will go to individual housing costs. Of course, it will be better to show how we manage to control the market resources that will uproot building costs and possible rent prices at the moment, but there are good hopes that the bills that have been registered and that have been extremely well accepted by the trade unions in the country will be the answer to the question: What can we do for those who have been least qualified of their hands? The general social establishment and housing benefits will undoubtedly come to a great deal of help. I would also like to think that it is a self - chosen option for people to simply stay in their rent if they choose the option, choose not to take the risk, prefer not to take the risk of fluctuations that could happen at a housing market. Of course, it is to believe that people can be subjected to the threat of fluctuations in the rent prices, which, of course, reflect fluctuations in domestic prices and interest in Iceland. In the long run, we have strong evidence that making our own housing is a good provision for homes in the country. In countries where the tenant market is much stronger than it is in these countries, such as the United States of America. In Germany, it seems sad to conclude at the end of a job that people have not built their own homes and thus built up savings or found ways in other places of their lives to build up a good personal standing. It is kind of sad to look at how many homes in the European Union are treated, especially when considering those who have reached the end of working and are about to start a pension. There is a striking difference between countries in this regard on their own financial status, depending on whether the rent market is large and widespread or whether it is a special policy. This should be kept in mind. The bill is like a damp bill that opened the way for the so - called reconstituted way. I also want to keep it as simple as I think it is possible for people to choose to be in a tenet, then we want them to be real options available when it comes to the size of the mortgage. It is the fact that the loan of disloyal loans during the first few years of the loan is quite heavy while the head chair is high. For this reason, it is suggested that a new section of the report, in fact, during the first year of the entire assessment and then a decline in the proportion of ten years, be taken off the payload of such loans. This is not to say that such loans are to be borrowed, but they have become more realistic options, and long - term attention is needed when they settle these loans. If we were going to, for example. would enter 8% of inflation three years in a row, there would be a serious problem with reimbursement of such loans despite the authority to take out the property savings, compared with the price-separation loan that would not bring the impact of the inflation on the payment rate as rapidly as insured loans. These are things that the financial companies of the country, creditors, pension fundes, need to be very careful each time with each borrower, but it is quite clear that by the fact that this warrant is accepted into the law, it has become a much clearer and more realistic choice for those who have been especially looking at paying interest each month, which in the case of the irresponsible loans, take into account the cost of inflation in the country, and headbands. Those who want to pay the head chair and raise right away will have a better choice now, lowering the loan early. If this succeeds, it will be benefited later by the burden of payment much less than that of the remuneration loan because it has been paid to pay for a portion of what falls each month at the start of the month, but it will pay them much later. The same could be said with the ossuary, it progressively decreases on the unscrupulous loan, which is, as I have been trying to trace here, of course, the question always is: Do men consult on the remuneration rate in front of the loan period? I think it's wise to open up to this option, it's an option, it's free, and it's gonna be interesting to see how it's going to get into the market. It is then in another bill that we discuss in detail the insurance and the growth and the changes we see to be the right thing to do in that legal environment. Therefore, I intend to stop here, a respectable president, and suggest that the case be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u30	A respectable president. While it is good to finally offer suggestions for support to young people in a house - to - house market, it is unbelievably unfair that there is more support for rich young people than we do for young people. I'm going to ask the secretary of finance, can't we at least... Do you have the same level of centenarian support for the earning young people and the earners in the same way that the personal discount is done? Second, I'd like to ask the secretary of finance about the ideologies of the Independence Party that he introduced in the prime minister's debate at the beginning of this council. In the 1980's, there was the ideologies of a simple tax system, total taxation, and the freedom of people to set aside their money. Now there's still another suggestion that if people put aside their old age, if they pay their mortgages, they'll save themselves to buy an apartment, if they invest in innovation companies. I'm asking the head of the Independence Party whether the Party has these policies to go back to such spaming emphasis or to the ideologies that were in the category for the time of liberalism in the 1980s. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u31	A respectable president. It's in itself the same right for the income shark as the harvest plague in this bill, but we have a roof that all the most rich people are involved in. In a centenarian, the tax rate is a mischievous factor and actually goes according to how much was inserted into the special savings system. As a result, a person may, in effect, put in an equal amount of money and thus be able to withdraw in a variety of ways. I don't see any way in itself on the basis of the ideologies we're here suggesting to settle it in some other way. I remind you that income shortages have the rights of other systems that make rich people do not enjoy at all. Other than the ideologies: No, I'm still thinking that we should be involved in what we can do in the tax system, the total tax that is available to most people and that is not enough for us to be in unnecessary transfers in the system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u32	A respectable president. A financial minister himself said that this system would be more successful for young people than the income. I'm going to ask the secretary of finance: lsn't at least can provide an opportunity for long - term earners to earn the same currency as the earners, then at a shorter time, to earn at least the same price. Neutral between those who have better standing than the others? Then I'd like to ask the secretary of finance about leaving behind those who have lived before. I'm going to ask the secretary of finance about a group that can't be corrected and is not receiving this support, i.e. those who lost their apartments, young people who bought their first apartment in the crash, were beaten with three hooks, and lost their apartments. Does it not, then, give people any support to get back into a housing market? Should we give it some special consideration? [[The president calls.]] Is it not possible to approach this group that in many respects remains, those who lost their home in the crash?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u33	A respectable president. First of the income - stricken people: It can be said that over a ten - year period, there is a considerable amount of work in the system. The question is, Is it true that there is an issue of discrimination in behalf of those with less income? We've decided to go that way to put a roof on how much can be taken out. It's not that criticism is under way, but it's the ideologies here, that there's no reason to go beyond 500,000. -- then there's a cutoff for each individual. Regarding the group that is specifically asked, I draw attention to the fact that we are extending the options by two years, so that at least All available options can be used by the individual in the year 2019. When it comes to this, it will be considered whether or not we are still going to extend the options if there are groups such as the one mentioned here that did not benefit from the correction, the 110% pathway, or other, and has not been able to invest in his own property or to collect for a head seat. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's a question we have to answer for 2019.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u34	Mr. President. I want to carry on with the thread as long as possible. paritaprevir In this regard, Hjövar's Hjörvar recorded the income distribution. True, it is true what happened at the highest. Minister to a tax charge, which, of course, is just a public contribution to an individual. But has there been reports of how this would spread, this public contribution, between different income groups, different income groups? Is it not reasonable for us to have that diagnosis before we settle this matter so that we can discern what this means for different revenues in support of the government? I agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar. It would be natural for me to watch this, which, of course, is support to young people who are positive in themselves, to buy their first apartment, from some dollar number to the same family as the personal discount so that we are evening this position. Is that an analysis? Isn't it normal to get it out? The other question I'd like to ask is the vision of the pension fund. [[The president calls.]] Now special savings has been encouraged to strengthen the position of the pension fund. [[The president calls.]] The impact of this operation on the pension fund status has been identified?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u35	A respectable president. The average wage in Iceland is about 550 away. At least, somewhere in the range, last time I checked. According to one couple's average pay, they are somewhere around 1.1 million if they're both average earners. The peak of income can go to the top of a married couple according to this bill is 1,380 you. K. Thus, we have a set of goals that cover income, which are just more than average income and below. It's the norm. That's as far as it goes. The views that have been attributed to whether they should do even more for those below, but we don't recommend it here. With regard to the pension fund, it is only discussed in the bill and in the report, and particularly because here we look at those who are going to the first pay, that their pension rights will be good, quite elegant, they will later continue paying their special savings system in the second place, despite the ten years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u36	Mr. President. I appreciate that. I think it would be interesting for a financial and business committee to consider it as the highest level. A minister here says about the pension rights because it has been superseded that the property savings is an enormously important addition to those who can contribute to it. The report also shows that not all special requirements are paid. Many people have probably considered this option to be too expensive, especially while these young people are in a rented house, as noted, where far too high a percentage of the provisional items of rent - housed persons, up to half, comes to pay rent. When I'm at the highest. I think it's important to realize that young people are expected to be in the lower part of the income pocket, they're starting with a labour market, you don't exactly enter the highest pay in the labour market. Consequently, the distribution - it shows that those who have a higher salary, and this is a level-based account account, may add more weight to the special property. [[The president calls.]] Most young people don't start right away because their income is low. [[The president calls.]] I think it's important that we have that picture right in front of us when we discuss a basic change in how the government intends to support young people's housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u37	President. Of course, it is true that young people generally do not immediately begin in the middle when they enter the labour market, but they pay only in the special savings system. All we do here is open the possibility for those who want to take the savings that are made over a ten - year period of tax free. That's what we're doing. We're offering that choice if they want it. There's hardly any way to argue that it will help with people about saving money to an apartment, saving money for a head chair, own money, to get into real estate. I think it should be a key point of the discussion here. In reality, there is no room for disagreements that these things will help people. Then we can talk about how much to do, how far to go. However, we do not believe the defence to go beyond taking ten years of such special property out of tax-free.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u38	A respectable president. I'm glad there's some prime launch for young people. A bright future has been a positive factor in linking it with money. The person standing here is 100 percent old enough to have participated and was obliged to be in the mandatory kicks so called and wanders to a significant party when he turned 26 years of age, and the brands were paid out. The fortune of that money returned to the first apartment, so it's positive. Now we are getting information about the special process in the large correction that was called is not going to work, i.e. It is only taking advantage of perhaps half of what was expected. The difference is that it's a selective but mandatory way of life so that even a lunatic, as I was forced to save, was obliged to do so. This route has been investigated, i.e. what is involved in the provision of the special property? [[The president calls.]] And what do you expect her to be here?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u39	A respectable president. We predict how many will be added. According to the evidence, there are 18,000 persons who will be added to the more than 35,000 who have been in the system, which is an enormous number, although not as numerous as we predicted at the time. There they saw how many people would save their special property. So we assumed, because of the high tax returns that is due to taking out the savings and putting it on the head seat, an even higher percentage than the actual witness would. Perhaps even more presentations have been needed to do so because it is clear that tens of thousands of families have missed a huge tax rate by not taking advantage of the ways that have been offered in recent years. It is our job to keep everyone well - informed of their rights so that no one will miss out on such provisions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u40	A respectable president. Like the senators who asked the highest question. A minister before, I'm a little worried about the income distribution and how these support will be divided. It is quite clear that young people are more income than average wages in the country, since they are certainly starting their career. In this context, I also wanted to ask the highest question. A minister of what effect he felt that the change in the loan fund of Icelandic students and the revenue of the bill now held before the council that will make it more difficult for students to work with studies, resulting in a delay in the arrival of young people into the market. Won't this have a negative effect? I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would consider the effect of this procedure on the income of his community and would it have been a conversation with the local community on how it will be improved. Then I'm worried that here's another intervention, a special intervention in the real estate market where government taxpayers influence the real estate market to rise, unfortunately, as we've known, and wondered if. A minister's worried about that, too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u41	A respectable president. I took a personal interest in the real estate and affected it. We believe there will be a greater improvement in the real estate market, the overall demand will not change much, but there will be many more who can buy their own homes and leave rents than we already have. It's only natural to roll along these lines with ideas that appear on the bill to correct the changes in the Icelandic loan Fund. I notice students in general generally take it well, so there's no reason to hide it from the fact that both of them are workaholics rather than anything else. It is an incentive for this bill to increase its income. If this is true, the support, the strength paid directly according to the second bill, may be enough to bridge the gap. I don't know, of course, that's a very careful consideration of both, and I'm sure it's done in committees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u42	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for clear history and interesting matters. I wondered about the possible impact on interest levels, or it is the effect that banks or creditors react by somehow trying to take this option to themselves. As is sometimes said of interest, the bank just ending up in the form of a higher interest. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister has any concern, or if it has been considered specifically, the risk of it is, of course, talking about the overconfidence loans, especially since I assume that the payment rate, and this is the case, will drop considerably at the beginning or can be dropped at the beginning of the period. Is there any chance that this will simply end with the banks instead of exploiting those who use the resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u43	A respectable president. Eventually, if you are trying to look into the future, what can happen, and how will play out on so many factors, it is difficult to give a clear answer. It is quite clear, however, that when it comes to uncertain loans, in two, three years of inflation, they are all likely to find their way into the variable rates of loans very early, but unscrupulous loans have not been obtained with fixed interest very far into the future, perhaps three, five, seven years. In the near future of reevaluation, this will go into the growing of such loans and make their payment much heavier. In the United States at one time, interest in such loans went to 18.5%, 18% had to be paid back from the ossuary during the next 12 months, but in Iceland such interest went up to 30%. [[The president calls.]] Yet, inflation was much higher. In other words, a third loan had to be paid back in the next 12 months. There must be circumstances that must be avoided. It will continue to be the job of financial companies to introduce the terms, the risks of each loan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u44	A respectable president. That's exactly what I'm worried about, just like the highest. Minister responded well, but he also goes straight into my next question regarding the information. Now I've had fun giving such advice to friends by my limited skills in these matters when it comes to the mortgage, not because I'm an expert on them, but because I understand the terms and it turns out that there is some knowledge in relation to what goes on and what happens when people take those loans sadly. There is a huge problem in my mind, however badly people know just the words used in these borrowings, resulting in the consequences of their actions. They do not know what to include in the film to determine what loans are suitable for them, whether to be equally creditable, irresponsible loan, or securable. Even if we're in favor of this situation that I'm at the moment, I'm still worried that it's only the right thing to do. And I wondered, in particular, about the rules of payment, if it's been examined, and if it doesn't have to spit in my hands when it comes to information loaners.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u45	A respectable president. We have laid down the financial obligation to provide good information. I don't know that all the financial companies have the ambition to give the best overview. Yet, we do know from the past, perhaps just from recent years or early years or early years, that there are a lot of people who do not remember or who do not recognize the fact that they have received counsel on how the remuneration process would be. But this is now more or less in the law than it is necessary to see how the monthly payoff will develop over the loan period, in accordance with the criteria. It will continue to be of great importance that we cherish these matters. I'm going to say, though, that I feel just as important to talk, as soon as we handle these matters, in ways that will simply keep the inflation low. Then everyone will be able to breathe a little light. [[The president calls.]] It is, in fact, the biggest interest and much bigger than this or other housing measures. If we were to create circumstances to ensure low inflation over a long period of time, we would be doing all things a lot of good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u46	A respectable president. I'd like to take a few words on this bill. I don't think we're arguing about the importance of doing things that are useful to the first apartments in real estate conditions, but it does matter how it is done, that it is handled in a fair way, that it is as much equal as possible in such measures as it can have a positive effect on real estate markets. You see, we have an example of something else. We can take an example of 90% of the loans and the massive explosion that then occurred at an apartment loan market that did not benefit anyone and then the other for the development of additional 1999 loans that were linked to income and property status and that the first apartments were used well, so four years later, there was about one third of the new financial loans in the apartment budget with additional loans to 90% that were specially assigned to this particular group. This change did not have a negative impact on the real estate market. There are, therefore, many ways to look at this subject and also for social justice by paying taxes or other financial contributions. The first thing you're looking at in this operation, of course, is the fact that this is an invitation to use your own credit card to reduce debt. In other words, it is inviting people to make their own money, and the support of the State will be much more than that of people with more money. The roof will not be complete until the 1,400 of us. K. and thus there is the threat, as experts have noted in the analysis of these proposals, that the change will result in the development of the real estate market. The people who already have enough money to buy their first apartment because they have 1,400 you. K. In remuneration will give the state's grant to make better apartments and raise the price. In this regard, it is not a reasonable action, and it is, of course, unfair in this situation. V.E.G. The secretary of finance earlier spoke of him as opposed to the transfer systems. He often says that. But here, just like correction, a new transfer system is being created. However, it does not take into account the benefits or the benefits of property. Just like the correction, where even people who knew a debt problem received money from the government, while those who had the biggest debt and owed the most money were paid, there is a system where there is no guarantee that support will go to the real people who are in trouble to buy an apartment. What we see is that the government has weakened the existing transfer system, the growth reform system, which ensures that those with great assets and those who owe little money. In turn, it generates a new transfer system in order to carry money on those who are in debt, have a lot of money, and earn a lot of money. It sucks to hear the highest. The secretary of finance is trying to argue that he is against the transfer systems under these circumstances. He is the king of a new transfer system, presenting a two-way transfer system, which is the same as the one called in foreign languages, and possible, as contrary as possible, gives the largest amount of money to those who have the least need, just as the correction did. One important thing to keep in mind. When criticism is presented to a government cut on the growth system, we always hear a song saying that debt has dropped so much as a percentage of land production that it is the reason for a reduction in interest rate. It is important to correct this here from the public speaker's office. The land production has increased. This is the major factor compared with debt and national production. So, of course, the money provided in correction and the possibilities that people have had to reduce debt with special savings have been reduced in debt, my God, whether now. But the reduction in interest of 15 billion each year from the best time the last government had - interest improvements now around 7 billion - was 22 at best - mainly because real - estate prices have increased. The fact that things look good on paper, however, has no effect on the burden of payment. This decrease is also due to lack of return to the reference levels in terms of pay. Since then, there have been high rates of pay, but they pass evenly across the labour market. The idea of growing was always to equal the relative status of the apartment buyers to the rest of the community, meeting the relative cost of an apartment that is greater for those who are buying an apartment than for others. I have to say, I've become a little surprised at the disgustingness of the present government, and governments seem to have on the growth reform system and on the child - welfare system as well, because I thought there was some rich social agreement that these support should go quite high on the income scale and be a support factor for people. What has happened in recent years as a result of this starving policy of the government in the growth reform system is full of people who received payment during a meeting or the year before, on the basis of their expectations. The government has changed the core goals of the growth reform system, the decrease in people's status, the responsibility for smiling expectations, and the fact that people are now living with payments that they expected to gain interest in helping themselves in accordance with decades of tradition. Then comes the top. Secretary of finance, claiming to be against a transfer system but creating a new transfer system to provide public funds to those who have not so far received it and certainly do not need it. The advantage of the growth system is that it is a very reasonable way to get money to those who need it because of shopping. Increased contributions into the growth system have little or no effect, at least less impact than any other transfer procedure possible, less than correction and less than the currently proposed operation, because it ensures that money will only pass through those who really need support to support them. Increased donations in the growth system are the best way to support the apartment buyers, the first apartment. In particular, it would also be sure that they will be given real help that really needs, but that we are not using government funds to make it easier for people with 1,400 yous. K. in a month's pay to offer higher to an apartment anyway. A respectable president. It is then assumed that the special savings will be used for this. I have serious doubts about it, and I don't think it's wise for a long time. There are a number of reasons. First of all, it is important that people collect special property savings and have it as an option. Forty years ago, 30 years, 20 years ago, before the birth of a special pair, it was basically the entire pension of Icelanders in front of concrete. Then we built a general pension system, then we built up a special pension system so that people would not have all their savings in concrete. The bill shows that during the first few years of your life, it is all right to use the special savings in any other way because at the end of his working career, he will still do enough to get a higher pension. Well, that's not the only purpose of the special savings. Special savings is not just for the payment of a pension. We've just been through a financial breakdown. Then there was the fact that people had a special property, a positive fact that led to economic stability. First, people in a debt crisis could take out their special savings, which is ablaze, and which is a failure. People who just lost their home or had big financial problems could say to the bank: I have money I'm not going to bring with you unless you showed me up, and as a result, I got a deal out of owning my property. The policy of this government is that in the next down cycle, no one will have a reserve. All the generation now buying the first apartment will have no reserve to resort to the next down cycle, and nothing will be left to depend on. Her entire savings will be tied to concrete. Strategies are certainly a property that will continue to exist over the decades, but their problem as property is that concrete is unsolved in a crisis, such as any person who had to sell his apartments in 2008, 2009, and 2010. Flirting in need of a crisis. This operation will have an adverse impact on financial status in Iceland. It will make the first apartments of buyers worse equipped to cope with a financial problem next, because this generation will have no reserve. Let's just look at the economics, the importance of the economy, the importance of their income of rural society's income, the importance of consumer consumption, the ability to pay off special money for people who were in their homes during the last recession. So, are they really going to say that it doesn't mean anything to you as a swinger? Where is the impact of this operation for financial stability in the country when we are creating, as it were, a whole generation of apartment buyers who will have no reserves and who have no chance to defend themselves against fluctuations? A respectable president. Once you've done all this fault, it's obvious that you've got a huge flaw in it. It is extremely important to find better ways to meet our first apartments. I think it takes two to come. Some kind of special saving process that comes up with people who save money, but it's also a better bonus and a special additional bonus for the first ones who buy it. It will actually meet those who have a low salary and are trying to buy an apartment. People with 1,400 you. K. This month's pay does not require official support to buy the first apartment and raise real estate prices to the others. This proposal and this bill here is just a continuation of the obsession between the Independence Party and the Government to create a new and new transfer system that takes money from those who don't need it. It's reprehensible, and it's wrong. And to wrap it into some form of verbs against translocation systems is a terrible paradox. Then I haven't talked about one thing, kind of the situation that we live in today, to see the political party that comes up with freedom of movement and freedom of the individual, to come and offer taxes if they do this or do the other. This is the same category that opposed last year's exposure to a sugar tax. What will come next? Tax discounts for those who buy vegetables or eat healthful foods? This category that claims to be on days talking against consumer management is at the front of creating new and new ways to solve the good systems we've been living in Iceland that have made sure that official support will be available to those who need it. I think there's a lot of reverse evolution in the bill, and I'm not that it's right to support this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u47	A respectable president. It may not be surprising. A senator quoted above expressed his view that this bill of assistance to the buyers of the first apartment would not be an improvement. So he really felt a sense of despondency. It surprised me a little bit that he couldn't find something to do with it. He spoke extensively about the growth reform system and wants to improve it, a system that really encourages debt. This is a system that encourages saving. I don't agree with what was said here, that these proposals are being made to take money from one to the other, but contrary to the fact that the young people are making the most of it, young people who are being helped to buy their first apartments use their own money, their own money, their own resources, to the point that they don't have to be on the taxpayers, but they don't have to go through the interest system. Slandering at the problems facing young people today is my opinion, and I would like to hear why. A senator of that, lack of housing in the capital area, lack of new housing. Young people who are buying their first apartment are in tremendous competition with their tourism, tenants, and tenants, all of which have led to an increase in housing. I wanted to hear what I was doing. A senator would not have any opinion of the invitation gate in Reykjavík where his party is directing the distribution of property at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u48	A respectable president. I think it's very interesting that he's answering back. In no way do the senator focus on the subject and the criticism of this bill I presented. That's the most interesting thing to me. It does not answer one critical point, not to the effect on financial stability, not to the effect of creating an entire generation that will not have reserves. The subject was not discussed, it's just old-fashioned bullshit about serving on property in Reykjavík, trying to turn matters up into some table tennis game that I think this case is all too important to deserve. We can take a special discussion of the endowment in Reykjavík if that is not the case. That's what a senator wants to do. There's no problem in Reykjavík. On the other hand, what is falsely claimed. A senator is here making a way out primarily to allow people to use self - resources to reduce debt. That's what they're doing, but they're giving State granting you the best money to reduce debt, which is probably not going to have to start the debt anyway, get the maximum government grant. How can righteousness be found in that? House debt is not created. House debt is the result of lack of funding. Those with $ 1,400,000. in a month's wages, it is expected that there will be a better way to pay off debt anyway and that you do not need a special government grant. On the other hand, there are people who have a very difficult time buying homes, and that is what people need for their Kingdom power. This has been the case for decades. Clearly, the Independence Party is going to abandon that solidarity. It is against general growth reforms. He is against the general support of apartment merchants. He wants specific support and most of it to those who need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u49	A respectable president. I will personally discuss this bill. On the other hand, I wanted to know what was happening to me. To what is the root of the problem facing young people today that everyone agrees about, I think, or most of the time, I think it is difficult to buy their first apartment. Of course, it is in any specific procedure, as this procedure is sure to be. As a result of specific actions, they can affect some of the factors known or unknown that need to be handled. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned that these young people would later be left without additional savings. This is completely illogical. There are agreements made in the last winter that made it possible for the remuneration of the remuneration fund to cover many remunerations, so that at the end of the working year, men will be able to pay over 100% of their pay when they retire. At this level, this rate decreases substantially, although it remains that people who stop working in a special property fund are significantly higher than those they earn when they retire. Each of us needs to consider what is acceptable for each individual. This bill is merely increasing the option of young people in addition to the advantages they are in. However, there is a huge loss of property, a lack of open land in Reykjavík, far beyond the rural areas around Reykjavík, in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] It is a responsible part of the United Nations that controls this distribution to cope with the challenge and increase the competition for housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u50	A respectable president. I'm simply tracking the facts about the special kickback. The government's goal is for young people to use all their special savings for ten years to pay for apartments. That means that when the harshness of the economy valley becomes a debt crisis, these people will have no special pension money to wear. And the government at that time will not have the same potential as we had in 2008 to allow the deposit of special savings to reduce economic breakdown, to maintain a social demand, to reduce unemployment and ensure financial stability. There is no analysis of these factors in the bill. Then, of course, the fact is that the first purchase has never been more difficult. Why, then, is there a solution that will lead to an increase in the competition for apartments and pressures? Why is Kingdom power being given to people on high wages to make higher apartments? This is completely incomprehensible. Then we're gonna have a snooze. A senator who is going to teach me something about supply and demand on property in Reykjavík. They're building up in Reykjavík. But the other day you agreed. A senator and her associates, e.g. Allowed sources to drive an Airbnb into town make it a little hard for her to talk about the problem of apartment renting when her government groups have made further room for such a operation and my permit. Reykjavík, on the other hand, is having it built up all over the world. That's good for what's happened. A senator taking a walk. They're based on all the empty fields. Reykjavík is in a nonsense building, and there is no property shortage in Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u51	Madam President. I'm going to begin to say that I find it beneficial in itself that we are discussing arrangements to support young people in a real estate market that has been a big problem. I'd like to mention that despite declarations about anything else, the evidence that has been presented in the council on the subject of correction so that it is least used to younger people and, most certainly, younger ones are affected. If we consider the figures behind the operation to be the main action of this government in support of the families in the country, it was 56 years of age and older who received a total of 26.4 billion of the 70 billion that were spent on correction. Those under 35 received 4.4 billion. It was also the highest income groups that received less than 30% of the amount of correction, while the largest 20% received 13%. It is not yet available for the offspring of those who were corrected, about which they have been inside a request since October of last year, and still have not been answered to the queries presented there. It is only hoped that you will ask after this operation was run through how different revenue groups of the current procedure will be affected. That question was also asked when we discussed the correction, and it is still being said by some people. The members of the administration party and the Supreme Court. Advertising that it was actually most useful for young and earners on the contrary to the data provided by that same government, to the highest extent. Secretary of finance has suggested the distribution of the correction. But it may only be hoped that the government would consider them the right to do something for young people. I'm going to consider a few questions that I find important to be considered. I only came into it earlier in answer to the highest. Minister and this is about the income distribution. It is obvious that there is a disagreement in the conference about the basic thinking behind paying a tax discount that actually depends on the earnings of the person involved, since most of the income can save most of the money and, as a result, get the biggest tax cut. It doesn't take a space scientist to figure that out. Still, it is important that we try to understand the facts by having them analyzed. It is also important that we consider whether this will benefit the group it is designed to use. It has been stated that this could be some 50 billion. However, it has also been shown that the scope of the special part of the correction presented earlier during this terms was considerably less than expected. When this is discussed, I wonder how it will benefit the group to serve when we consider, for example. Resources of people aged 25◯34 years V.E.G. A minister referred earlier to the mediocrity of society. When we go to the Haguems' website and look at the arrangements for this group, which is likely to be someone who would like to take advantage of these provisions, then the median provisions are less than 300 you can make. K. In total, that's about 375 you have. K. How long will it take individuals with the income to collect themselves into a down payment on an apartment by this method? Will the group feel that they can afford to lay down their special savings? The third question that would be interesting to wonder over, and I don't know the answer, is whether the government called to represent young people when she was preparing this operation for young people. It'll be here at least not to mention that young people have been included in the program. I'm not young people and the highest. Ministers are not young people. However, when we ask and listen to what young people stress today, it is no less likely to obtain acceptable rent supplies because young people today are more involved in mobility than are young people 30 years ago. [[Up front.]] Today's young people are very much concerned with being able to move, move, run on new opportunities, and, in fact, all our policies over the years have been aimed at increasing their ability to be mobile, whether in Norwegian cooperation or international cooperation. Or you might ask yourself, " Is this a wish for young people? ' to start with. I admit that I find it very positive what has been done at this assembly in housing. It is hoped that there will be an increased supply of rented prices where people will not spend up to half and even more than half of the provisions for housing expenses, which is an unacceptable percentage. How should young people in a rented market today, as he looks, be able to afford to put aside their special property savings? Actually, this way is primarily about providing for people who are not particularly high according to the data we can obtain, in order to collect out payment at the same time as they are in an uncontrollable rented market, unless they still live in homes that may regret many people without their specific desire. What is also thought - provoking is the fact that these measures combine, corrective measures, that of the special property that was then introduced and that new way of government - these are, of course, significant changes in how the government supports the housing and housing of the people in the country. If at any other level we believe it is natural for the government to support housing, housing, and support people to get a roof over their heads, whether they make it through rent or through property, it is certainly a matter of concern that this is a major decision - making. Growth improvements have been reduced during this terms - and the decline in growth reforms primarily by increasing the decline rate - and by increasing the cumulative decline to a total of 60 billion years. ... atnow. The cumulative decrease of 57.7 billion. The support of the families in the country has been progressively reduced through the growth reform system and the child - repair system, but there are flat measures, whether through correction or by this procedure, which are primarily beneficial to the higher income. It is a big change in policy that the public uses the common resources of the people of the country to support mainly the wealthier groups. It is my opinion that the government should just use the tax system and use it in its policies to equalize people's burdens, that the role of the government should be to ensure all opportunities, to balance the circumstances of people who are employed who make different incomes, but who are all. very important, that the government's support should depend on helping and supporting those in the position of having lower income, rather than on supporting especially those with higher income, as could be the case with this strategy despite the roof set on it. I would also like to put this into context with what has been done before, as we consider the cost of land and rural society. The European Union has now assessed the unassailable costs of rural society because of the government's special delivery strategy, what is presented here and what has already been carried out. A total of 15 billion are lost in an outback. Then I'm not talking about the future growth and the loss of the future growth of these incomes, but the loss of income. It was found in the correction that this loss of the rural society would be improved, which has not been done. Most of it is in Kópavogur, Hafnarfjörður, Mosfellstown, the rural communities around the capital, but also suffer severe injuries from various other rural areas. In particular, this first real-estate strategy, considering that there will be a new one, which, as I mentioned earlier, is to be fully replaced, especially since this is not necessarily the case with young people - this strategy according to the European Union's opinion, could mean 7.2 billion income losses in ten years. Then I'll just stick to this straight income loss. What we see here is an alternative that certainly encourages saving, which is positive. I ask: Can't such measures be used so as to save everyone's money, but the government's support is considered to be equal in terms of earnings? Here's a proposal for options we don't know, but how will it benefit from what I've said about my income, but also from the interest of young people in farm forms, which I don't think were specifically checked around these measures. In fact, it was noted that in a presentation of the resources in Harpa, the talk was primarily, and often discussed, about the special policy, but did not comment on the exactness of its interest in society today. Here we are talking about measures that vary in different ways between different revenue groups, just as the correction made, a set of measures for the public to make more money money money money than the earner. At the same time, we watch a decrease in child reforms and growth reforms, which, as correctly noted in the backwaters. paritaprevir Páll the Árnason of Athenians before, has proved to be an excellent communicator in the community. Many seem to have woken up to a bad dream now that their growth reforms have been impaired, growing in what people have calculated relatively large, because the decrease in proportion has not been consistent with the development of real estate prices, such as. in the capital area. Government policy is cutting down the existing systems in support of the families in the country but accept the official funds and share it out so that the earners can get the most. I support that we give special support to young people when it comes to obtaining housing because they are a real problem. It is a real problem that we can go over and discuss the causes, the fact that in the collapse, building up in the capital area, for example, so that supply did not follow demand, that real prices have gone out of control, so it is very difficult to get into the real estate market in the capital area, that in the country, however, real estate assessments have not been followed by the cost of building, so it is difficult to obtain loans to build up houses and loans do not depend on actual building costs. This is the problem we watch. I'm pretty sure this way is going to work. I have every reason to believe that the scope will be what has been proclaimed here. I have every reason to believe that it will benefit those who need it. That's the big thing, except that we're looking at the cost, the cost of a state, and the cost of rural society that have not been put in place and that we've not improved the loss they've already suffered. I can't figure out what governments are going to do in such a way as it seems to be, based on a memo from the European Union member of the United States, without a complete consultation with the local community. I have a lot of doubts. If we view it as the role of the government to support those in need of support, to settle the opportunities and equalize the country, I have serious doubts about the answer to this situation. Even if I feel positive about saving, supporting young people, I have serious doubts that these measures will serve them. When asked for income distribution, I feel that the impact on the status of the pension fund, which I have not had time to cross, when asking about the actual income of young people, is a concern to me. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The answers are as bad as none.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is a persuasive speaker. I must say, at the moment before the speech began, I was acquitted to this matter and a little more against the growth process. But talk. A senator makes me think about it all because my concern for growth in general has been that the profit simply comes from banks, they simply increase the interest. Of course, the cost of growth is better for those with lower incomes, so the pressure is likely to spread more in proportion to those with higher income, and the goal is likely to be met. But I think it must contribute to bigger growth, which is already a big problem in Iceland and there's no look for change in it. I think it's such a question that I don't quite quite settle with myself over the question of how far to the right or to the left we think we are. Actually, I don't think I'm as far to the left as I am. A senator with perfect respect and shamelessness. [[Up front.]] - It's coming, says why. Senator. I wonder what. A senator is concerned about how growth reforms in an attempt to avoid it can have some effect on growth, whether the profit of banks simply goes on in a different way, such as increasing interest or changing terms in some way so as to benefit rather than benefit those who take advantage of these provisions. I always worry about this when people start messing with these matters with the government because it's not the mind of financial matters, that's the consequences of the actions that apply. Often, they do not have much in common with the mind that others enjoy. Because of it. A senator who was here with numbers has considered these figures considerably better than the one standing here, I am very interested in hearing what happened. A senator has that to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u53	Madam President. I'll share my concerns with you. A senator of Iceland's interest expenses. He's way too tall. We may be said to have the funding of feeding mothers with a peak of 5.0% now during this stability period. We look at very low inflation, yet we still have this high - control growth in bank loans, far out of the picture with our neighbors. The reasons for this are the pay raise in a general labour market, which all of us agree to be doing only what really needs to be corrected. We're looking at the terms and debates here at the labour market that focused on reaching the minimum to 300 thousand, which are still under the guidelines we've set for ourselves on the benefits of living in this country. But, of course, you can argue that the tax reductions that have been attacked, e.g. During this average period, it has had a stimulus to support the Iceland State Department's decision to maintain a interest level to hit the panel. In view of the growth improvements that were so special for fuel, they have these connections that I covered and are more useful to the earners, I don't think they were particularly expanding. It is shocking, however, to see how evolution has been. In 2012, the proportion of children's growth reforms and tax returns was 9.1%, that is 4.7% in 2016. As I went over the years, a joint decline of 57.7 billion in the current price of this terms. It is clear, then, that this is a matter of bringing money into support. If we have this housing support at another time, where do we want to direct it? Do we want to direct him to the highest income or to the most rich people? I think this is the basic question if we say yes to the head that the government should have housing support, which I say yes. [[The president calls.]] But I think it's important for him to use where he lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u54	A respectable president. I have to say, as I'm saying, it's rather convincing in my case. A senator and my doubts about this bill have actually increased as a matter of course. A senator keeps talking about the matter. But to make it clear, now we know that interest improvements have been reduced, and as a result, expenses in that part of the state's budget have been reduced. I know why. A member of the council to make the reduction really that these provisions are useless if the overall objective of any income group is to support people in the country in order to pay off loans and to buy housing? To put the question simply in a less delicate way: Are these actions deceptive? Or is it reasonable to call these methods deceptive in the light of reductions in interest of growth? I deserve what? Of course, a senator's right to say this a little more delicate than this if she chooses to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u55	Madam President. I'm trying to be gentle. Though it sometimes caused intense rage at night, it did. Senators, I'm trying to be gentle. I wouldn't necessarily call this a delusion, but the fact is, the actions that have been done during this terms when we compare it to the reduction of interest and child development, and consider this as one million to support the families in the country, these are the actions that have been carried out during this term to a large part financed by damaging it elsewhere. First, largely by removing the money from another source, the extent of correction and special delivery methods is financed. Second, I do not consider the usefulness to be legitimate or just. She's not righteous because we're using that official money. That's what I think. A senator said that I was probably to his left, that, of course, the public should point his support to equalizing the terms of that has been quite at ease in the community, e.g. around child development and growth improvements. Thus, it comes as a surprise to learn how the government has actually succeeded in many ways without discussion when it comes to the deterioration of child - welfare and child - growth improvements by not moving to a poor proportion, it has completely changed on the support of government services and the support of government families in the country. This is what we're seeing now that people are realizing that these changes, i.e. The damages are coming out right now. There are many who feel that they are being betrayed because they have listened to the officials of the government here speak very quickly about the homes of the country, a number of families in the country who feel that they are badly betrayed by these failings, and they realize that this has a significant impact on their provisional income, and, of course, on those who would least, the most profitable people and the children. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u56	Madam President. I don't feel that it's appropriate to continue this meeting and give a new speaker the word already. Secretary of finance is not showing up in the hall. I just don't think it's okay. I encourage a lunch break to see if it's the best. The secretary of finance can stay here on the afternoon after he's fed himself or had a conversation with those he's having with or was talking to in the dining room the last time I saw him. V.E.G. The minister of finance also had a big case on the program yesterday, and he refused to show up in the hall. True, there was a later debate on how to interpret it, and members of the committee were present here, yet there would have been reason to insist. The minister of finance showed this discussion the minimal respect to observe it, even taking part in it, answering questions, but he did not. But here he's measuring for a bill that the government hasn't bragged about so little, hosted decorations in the Wall with unstealed people. I don't think that's appropriate. The minister of finance is not to sit in the hall and be in the discussion. I see he's in the door with the cup of coffee and he's going to be the best. Minister's good, but I expect him to sit here in the hall for the rest of this discussion. [[Up front.]] Yeah. There's not much to ask.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u57	A respectable president. I'm speaking here, but in fact, I'm still developing an opinion on this matter. I have to say, I have found this passage more interesting to the two that were proclaimed by the government class in the development of government, i.e. I don't think it's as bad as the others, and as a matter of fact, I've been more against her than against her, but not on that basis and it's equal to the rate or factor, because I don't think she will. However, this is, like, the highest. Financial and economic ministers came in earlier, including economic action. What I now wonder is why this economic operation is needed, in view of the fact that their homes'debt has dropped very much. It was that way at the beginning of the season, according to the highest term. There was a financial and economic minister to the home debt more than 100% of the domestic product, which is certainly an independent economic problem, but since then the economy has improved very much. It is mostly due to tourism and a measure of economic luck, which an example of global oil prices has been low and many more are playing into which, in itself, is not necessarily in the hands of the government. There's another discussion. It says that I don't fully understand why this is needed as an economic operation in the light of the changing circumstances. On the other hand, even though I may not be quite as far to the left as the other. A senator who spoke before me, I'm also not far to the right that I take the opposite of all control of the economy. I feel that she is at times appropriate, and it always needs to be evaluated depending on what is being discussed. When it comes to managing how people invest during their lifetime, I find that an interesting question, to say the least. I believe that it is socially necessary to have some type of responsibility to make a living. So I think that's more and less my reason for school because in one chapter of life, you don't necessarily think about what happens decades later. The consequences of such simple, and in reality, a very normal thoughtlessness are very bad, not just for the individual, but for the community as a whole. That is where justice comes to my mind before the aforementioned government. It's not a strictly private matter to people what it takes for the rest of their lives to be saved and so on. So when it comes to managing people's investments during the night of their lives, I keep in touch with a fixed government item. On the other hand, I wondered, and there is more to ask than to answer necessarily, whether or not we should direct them to an investment in a house they will probably need all their life or whether they will invest in a fund that hopefully produces some fruit and follows prices so that people can make money during the night of their life without getting into serious trouble. This idea we're discussing here was born after a collapse, with what I get best seen before the 2013 General elections when the discussion was a big deal of disappointment over the development of a housing market following the 2008 financial collapse. I always experienced it that way. An enterprise was always promising this free money and all that, as I call it, and that was the method I've become more and more contrary to as I've spent more in it. She's both unjust and unreasonable and a bad use of tax money. In fact, I could actually bring a fistula below about how bad that idea is. But this approach has made me feel more reasonable, and most important because it is not exactly the same as poopulaism, I must say, as did the other method the forwarding party of the day. However, I feel that it is the answer to the Popeism and the loud demand that was set in the 2013 General election. But while it's more reasonable to me, I come back to this question that I wondered about in the wake of words. Minister that this is a financial operation, because I don't think it's necessarily needed anymore. Economic conditions are just not what they were in 2013, let alone 2009 and 2010 after the 2008 collapse, so I feel that the justification for this case has actually subsided over time. In return, I can quite understand it and agree that if there's one thing you would hope everyone would have a lifetime night like before, it would be a roof over your head. This is an overexcited natural investment for the citizens. I think it makes a difference. In fact, it is normal to encourage people to buy such things, to have an investment that they understand personally, and to have a better perspective on the use of the pension fund on the ploughs and congregations. It's like I'm saying a question, it's just because the case is still in 1st. apart from being rather interesting. There are a few things I wonder about this bill that I now expect to read better and to consider in line with other members of Congress, as discussed at the General Assembly. But that is, for example. These roofs, why are they where they are? Why are they expressed in specific crescents? Would it not be reasonable to aim at some variable that changes over time? There are some of these things that I think will become clearer as the matter gets more coverage here at the General Assembly. The other is what I'm always most concerned about when it comes to the country's housing, a realistic access to information. You're right. You're right. A minister earlier said in response to my opponent that financial institutions are doing more to inform consumers of terms and consequences of decisions than before collapse, it was just nonsense how we Icelanded before disaster. It's just that it has to be said at the moment. It was absurd how we handled our loans and money at that time before a collapse. Although things haven't resolved since the collapse of the financial system, there were certainly some lessons to be learned. Of course, one thing is that the bank wants the consumer to get the sense of it. On the other hand, I think it is also a great tendency, especially in politics, but also in general with experts and financial experts, to overestimate the consumer's real understanding of what he is doing. As I came in earlier, I have often noticed when talking with people who are either considering taking a mortgage or taking mortgage loans that they have very limited understanding of the loan, having no experience with these words, and the terms that some experts tell them to use. I think it's a big problem, completely away from who it's to blame. You can say, "Yes, the bank is supposed to introduce it better. " In other words, the consumer should learn more about this. Let's just say it's true. The problem is not to find out who it is to blame. I mean, this is a real problem. The way people make loans, how the loan system is due to housing, depends on many factors in their personal economic lives, on how to make security, on how they make money swinging or not, whether they are predictablely swinging or not, and, of course, their pay load and expectations of how long they're going to live. If, for example, you are going to have a home, you may be determined to have a home for 40 years, then it may not be quite time to skip past the reduced prices in five years if you are going to have it for another 35 years. There are some of these things that I just know from talking to people that they don't realize. I'm telling you, there's a lack of information, and he's a problem. That problem cannot be solved by simply blaming the consumer, no matter how justified it may be from some doctrine or from what people want to do about justifying their viewpoints. There was one thing I noticed on the bill. Now I understand this bill well, or I think I do. But I do know that the common citizen, who's not a lot to check on these loans, will understand it pretty badly, I think. I think it's gonna make the crumbling point of taking mortgages a little bigger. It is not in itself bad, as long as it is thought - provoking to meet it somehow. In particular, I noticed it in the fifth verse. that there is an intelligence obligation with the supplier, not the lender's. So let's note that a person gets information from his bank's status and payments and gives us that it's worthable as a loan that's complicated and difficult for ordinary people or most people to calculate unless they have any ambitions for it -- it's okay for people who are very busy in these matters, such as senators who are introducing themselves to members of Congress or experts, something like that, but for people who are simply looking to cover their heads and find some loan that works for them, though it takes a lot of work as a person of one reason or another, or don't think they can work hard or work for who's reason or why, and all of that makes them not understand very well. As an example, I would have thought, with regard to the 5th verse 5. g., that it would be easier for the consumer to have the information on the lender's mind completely so that it would be more clear what is going on. I always find it boring to listen to people say, right, that they don't understand their loans. They get some printing, they see some numbers, and there are all kinds of fifties to let the price insurance pay loans that are extremely complexly functional, but the cost of sacrifice is that the consumer does not understand what he is doing. When the consumer does not understand what he is doing, it is much more likely that he will make a mistake. Whatever the reason for this lack of information, it is the nature of it. I think there's something we need to focus more on, to increase the intelligence. In fact, I have to admit here at the end of the minute that I have no magic solution to it. The banks already have good calculators to describe it perfectly if you install inflation, but that still depends on people's understanding of the terms used by the banks. In my dream world, no one would take mortgages without fully understanding the meaning of these words, the effect they have, and the factors to consider when deciding which loans are best for them, e.g. whether your income is fluctuated or not, how safe it is, how likely it is to follow prices, etc. Another factor that many forget to consider is that there are different classes and fields of work to which people can expect their pay to increase as a result of inflation. Some classes are very vulnerable to inflation because they increase later in wages than others, while other classes may, as a result of their competitiveness in the industry or whatever, that their salary is basically inaccessible, apart from perhaps some features, such as 2008. There are many things in this that I feel I need to improve when it comes to information to the consumer. In fact, I'm saying that if there was just one thing we could do to improve people's chances of managing their loans, it would be fixing it. But I don't have any magic solutions. I think it's time to draw attention to it. I don't have much time left. But I wondered, " How will this operation affect payment, especially on disloyal loans? ' There is certainly an incentive for us to borrow disloyally. I wouldn't call it fateism, as I've heard in these halls, I don't think it is. It's an incentive, not a guardianism. This is not a matter of making decisions for people but of giving them a chance. But I think it will affect the process of payment. I fear that there is a danger that the profit will be taken to the banks, which, of course, is, in my opinion, always the case when the situation is stirred. So far, I intend to vote with the bill unless something worse becomes evident, though of course they are warning that this is an imperfect way. It has advantages and defects, and we all have an assessment of whether we are more important. So it is important to me that we understand the consequences of accepting this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u58	A respectable president. We are starting a vote on financial policy and afterwards on a financial agenda. Here, for the first time, we are presenting a long - term financial policy barrier, and the existing one is based on the tremendous success of the forwarding government and the Independence Party that has achieved in this terms of terms and is recognized worldwide to be unique. The prospects we have in the nation's economic affairs to improve - these are opportunities to improve, whether in welfare, in transportation, in health, in education, or in other areas in which we have to make significant improvements - here are opportunities to do so, within the financial programme on the basis of this policy. The main point is that we are looking for a longer time to secure stability, so that what we are holding will be preserved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u59	A respectable president. It is quite a milestone, however, when this interpretation proposal, in this form for the first time before the council, comes for release. I thank you for your cooperation with a budget board that's published a lot of committee opinions on the subject. These are the broad lines and the story of the next year's financial prospects, and that's a good story. It's bright ahead, there's room to add on the charge side to the basic community, but at the same time we're going into debt. Similarly, in this program there is room for further emphasis as time progresses, because there is a good reserve at a time. This is one of the most bright and long - term programs in our part of the world that can play a role in the present situation. It is a cause for rejoicing. They then test the council to see if they want to stick to the financial policies, that there will be left over a government fund, and that a drop is the best thing when it comes to government matters, that we can gradually be able to build up the standard of living in our country. [[The president calls.]] That certainly is an opportunity.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u60	A respectable president. I will sit by the votes of this case and the next case as well. I believe the results we have achieved during this terms have been based on the application of the Treaty of the Agency and the Independence Party to reduce the debt of the households and increase the pay of the people. The work I have been doing has been in harmony with that government covenant. However, this is a term for the next terms. There is no agreement on what kind of cooperation is expected if that happens. I've been informing about this whole thing of my warning, that there's not enough thought that pensioners, children's families, and I'm sorry I can't support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u61	Mr. President. It is of great importance that the government's national financial policy and the national financial policy of Iceland's Federal Bank work together to reduce economic stability and to ensure economic stability. The financial issues involved are on the income side and exist as a result of the government's surrender of income during the election season and the right to those who have enough in the same time as reform and welfare services and social security are extremely urgent, such as the Supreme Court. The social and housing minister pointed to an earlier need, and a great need for investment in the transport system. We as superiors cannot agree with such a policy and vote against it, for it carries inequities and inflexibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u62	Mr. President. There is no evidence in policy and plan that the government's economic policy for the next few years will establish economic stability. The tax policy will increase the gap between the rich and the poor. not to place a wealth tax on the rich in society. The government's plans for reducing the debt are weak and are based mainly on sales of stocks in business banks, which, in turn, increase the capacity of state funds to build up the welfare system. No plan is submitted if the plans for sale are not followed. The order of the government's plans for public financial development is to strengthen the welfare system and thus to improve its services to the citizens is not supported. The health system is underdeveloped, not in the program to improve the quality of micro- and older citizens in the coming years, social stability is reduced by weakening important support systems such as housing and child reform, environmental and climate reform, and therefore the government has no apparent plans to handle these important issues with authority. But above all, we see every day that there is no political solidarity on the budget and, in fact, very little at all at this point. [[The president calls.]] She's out of commission. We left green cannot support this plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u63	A respectable president. We do not support the finance policy or the financial agenda of this government. The policy is not family - oriented or good for family members, it is obvious, and it seems that child - welfare should be for the worst. The tea plan is not good enough for us. It is one thing that may not be all - wise, but it is sound in view that we cannot support this course.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u64	President. Piranha and I have long - term thoughts in policy development and are deeply sad that such policy projects are not made on some cross-cutting ground, so that they can live up to the long - term efforts they put in. I cannot help but agree with the comments of the four senators who spoke before me, including No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Social and housing minister, not responding to what has been called. I even feel like I'm sorry. Surprisingly, the challenge is not to be met by governments and members of the council to put the crisis at the health level here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u65	A respectable president. Working on these new release laws is building a foundation for discipline and consultation and long - term financial plans. It means that if we are going to succeed, those politicians who are acting on these issues will not only praise something that cannot be kept, they also explain how to finance it. This strategy is the policy of the government, i.e. Stimulating health and welfare is a prime factor. Anyone who wants to be able to see it in numbers. It is interesting, however, when that is so. A government stand speaks as she speaks here, when a person learns what she's promising on tax matters, she's promising, threatening, that the taxpaying rate of older citizens with a so-called resource tax that the last government promised not to renew. Similarly, it emphasizes the importance of raising taxes on the nation's middle class. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u66	Mr. President. I'm going to hope to the highest. The prime minister does not go like an Ikarusi of old to fly so close to the sun in his joy over his own achievements to melt his wings off him. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for correcting the Supreme Court. Prime Minister, this is not, of course, the first time men work with budgeting for an average of time but in a new legal context. That is correct, Iceland has captured its amazing financial armor since the terrible collapse that occurred here in the fall of 2008, a continuous recovery process since the late 2010. Those who have the highest credit and deserve the credit for this are the Icelandic people who have endured through the difficulties and who are hoping to reap accordingly. It is quite cheap to intend to decorate just before elections with borrowed feathers from the nation or others who have worked hard to get us to where we have come, it is quite cheap. If it's to be the only opportunity for a candidate for this campaign, to take possession of the nation and everyone else's hard work, I'd like them all to benefit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u67	A respectable president. I think it's a good idea to recall when the last government offered a comparable set of state's terms prior to 2009,2013, that at that time it did not stand a stone on a stone. Inflation was far beyond what was predicted and economic growth was far beyond what was expected. This financial program suggests that there will be discipline and responsibility for the coming year, and we will try to develop a bond of inflation and increase economic growth. There is also room within this strategy to improve the quality of transportation and welfare. I think that's good news. I would like to put more into those classes, but there must be a responsibility and council guide. That's why I'm going to support this plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u68	A respectable president. When you hear the word "world record " in connection with the Icelandic economy, you feel a sense of dread. We're used to a lot of dips. If we're going to the top of the century, we usually know what we're waiting for. In the bright future, we do not support this plan or policy, including Because of priorities in the expenses and stability of the welfare system, but also as a result of the stillness of the command on the income side, the public is not expected to gain a righteous profit from common resources. I'm sorry, this is a layer looking forward to quietness.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u69	A respectable president. There are two things that have taken place before the council in this regard, on the one hand, in the policy, in financial policy, where to guide the total survival and the debt development for both countries and rural areas. I find it quite sad if the council cannot agree on that, not even on these main goals. But it's here that I believe that more is involved in where we should go because there's an enormous interest in it. Then there is the way we are going to divide the space that will be available each year in the long - term program. It's only natural for a man to handle it. I'm not going to make a difference. I, however, feel that the evidence is rather modest, I have to say for my taste. Here we are developing a government - making program that will result in a worldwide rate of 25 ◯35 billion a year, yet tax increases are reported. We're talking about 10% interest in the primary expenditure period, but more expenses are still being offered. I don't think it's worth much, but I have to say, "Here's more responsibility and on tax matters, speak clearly. " [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What taxes should be raised?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u70	A respectable president. I've come up here to try to speak very clearly on the tax issues and to explain what we in the short future would like in that subject and articles from our committee to a financial committee. We want to see much more emphasis on collecting resources uses in Iceland. Iceland is rich in resources, and we in a bright future feel that we are simply giving them away resources and have been doing it for years. We are to receive much higher expenses from the use of fish resources, as are being done in the Faeroes. We are to sell electricity to major users at much higher prices, such as Land induction has been proclaiming for years, that is to be done, and thus to collect funds from public funds. Travel services benefit from the quality of our country, the more delicate nature. We're not collecting enough fees from there. We're gonna talk pretty clearly about this. We do not see in this financial program that there are any priorities in this regard. Just for that reason, so that we don't talk about priorities on expenses that could be increased by this, but not by tax increases on the public, we can't vote for this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u71	Mr. President. The government budget brings up a vision for the next five years that we, in the United States, honestly described as nonstop. Reaching the board of directors' agendas to increase the dissociation rate, the welfare system and schools are further weakened, and the road system decays. Children's families will be less supportive and the benefit of those who rely on social security will get worse on the lowest salary. This is a vision that equals cannot support at all. So we vote against a five-year GDP team and a forwarding party.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u72	A respectable president. We are here setting up a financial program, and if it succeeds, we will be in the world's highest debt. What does that mean? This means that we have time to do better with the groups of subjects we want to do well. It also means that there will be stability here, which is the best news for homes and the public in the country. Then each person must evaluate the credible nature of the case. There is a position of opposition in these matters. I'd like to draw this out because people are slightly relieved of the tax increases. It's a show of opposition. The wealth tax so called the last government promised not to renew, who paid it, and the worst of it was the poor older citizens. There are cold greetings that the older citizens of this country receive from. ... anticoagulation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u73	Mr. President. It is not surprising to me that the compassion of the Independence Party and, especially, the reason. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, the son of Thor, have the richest people in the land. He goes out on his way to the platform to discuss their plight. This budget will not build up or strengthen the welfare community in Iceland. I'm on top of it. Social Affairs minister for sitting with her. The benefits of it are one; it will be extremely short - lived, for the legal obligation now rests on a new government to submit its own plan at the beginning of a new election period. That's also the only good thing I see in this document really. The poorest is this plan, and most unrealistic when it comes to building society. It is totally insurmountable about maintaining and building up the road system and other infrastructures in the country. There they form a huge debt to the future. The most responsible men should consider that one of the ways to make a debt is to starve and so neglect investments in society's interiors that the next generation will come. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u74	A respectable president. To be perfectly clear, the bright future is a highly perfunctory law on public finances and the long - term vision that is conceived or expressed in that law, but we are not voting for them. We're voting on a financial programme and we're against it. We would have made this plan different. One of the things that come, e.g. It is surprising how small system changes are planned. It is not a very ambitious prospect when it comes to how we are going to rethink our systems with the goal of trying to achieve prosperity, talking about our health system, for example. How will we make better use of the money that is already in the system? Not very ambitious. Several aspects of the schedule are really wrong, including Our transport as set in here, so we will vote against this financial agenda.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u75	A respectable president. The joy of the long - term program is that we have just an enormous amount of space to add to our investments. Would I like to do more? Yeah, I'd probably like to do more, for example. In transportation, and hopefully there will be circumstances to do more. We're putting 30 billion people in the medical system beyond the pay and prices of the entire staff population at 30 billion. For the first time, we're showing how to pay for a new hospital, to buy new helicopters, to buy support, to buy support, and to do so. and to bring in the state funds of 2,5305 billion rests every year and pays off debts. People can come here and say: " We want to spend more money, we want more money to be spent from the government fund. ' All right. But at what cost? Is it supposed to be at the expense of business somewhere else in the economy, or do people just care about inflation? Will they be at peace with the workforce to cut down payment because the State is going to take on more money? [[The president calls.]] There has to be some overall context in this. It has to be an overall context. [[The president calls.]] This is the case with financial policy that is responsible. We're bright ahead. [[The president calls.]] No doubt all of us would like to have a little more, but that must be a realistic view. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u76	Mr. President. I think it may be said of this suggestion that the conjugal barrier within it is developing a unique discrimination tool designed to treat the young in the country for the next ten years, a special discrimination belief that will greatly increase the situation of young families in the country in terms of the possibility of setting up housing. I'll review it better and reason a few words, and expect it even. to the maximum. Secretary of finance, give ear. Yes, each individual should over a period of ten years is able to lay down his special savings at 500 you. K. from her, and from her salary for ten years. More than that, countries and rural groups yield income tax and an answer to this special savings that will never result in taxation. The court is tied up with a person, so married couples and flat people can double this money, which is 10 million. The tax follow-up, the contribution of the government, state, and rural society, is of the order of 1,5,62 million in the first instance, and 23/4 million in the second, depending on what kind of taxation it would come, in lower or higher stages. It's a lot of money. Why is this a discrimination device? It's a social pyramid upside down. This is because the contribution between the state and the community is the higher the income they earn until the roof is reached. It's a social pyramid upside down. This parallels the fact that the rules on character withdrawal were 0K. for minimum wage but then increase in number to 50. K. or as the pay went up. Would anyone think of having a personal deduction like that in the tax system? No. Let's just ignore the fact that this is a post-requisition of the taxpaying state and rural society, which is never due to the fact that, instead of paying a local pay fee or that they put an unwanted special property into the system and later take it out in the near future, there's a total income tax and an answer from these funds, because it's a tax obligation on pay. Let's just ignore it. Let's just say that it's from a government fund. Consider three families who are identical in their lifetime, 30 to35 years of age, say a married couple, or a couple with one child. All of them have the dream of getting to their own housing, but it's from the state that one family gets 0K, and the best family gets 4 million from the state and the countryside. Although this discrimination proved to be only in ten years, the result is exactly this, as if we were setting up a system that thus made it possible for young families in the country to have a home, some of which would get 0K, others getting 2 million, and still another 4 million, because that will be the result in ten years. The circumstances of these families may, e.g. has been so that the first family has a low income, is absent, or has had to rent homes, and is not able to live at home with parents. She will never get into the situation of saving anything in her special savings. She can't afford it. She gets an 0K. [[Up front.]] She gets an 0K. in support of the country's joint profits, tax revenues, to create housing. [[Up front.]] - I'm talking here about what countries and societies are doing. Prime Minister. I'm not talking about the mercy of the government, allowing men to use their own money in building a house, whether it was property savings or anything else. I'm talking about the administration from state and community. This is how she'll be divided into this system. The families that are affected by these circumstances or other circumstances cannot take special care, cannot afford, barely make ends meet, they get 0K. support. Then we take a middle family, family number two, she's in the low middle income, and she saves as she can, she tortures herself as she can to take full property out of a relatively small salary, but because her salary is so low, she gets only half of the support she's got from state and rural society, although she earns only 2 million if she earns ten years of low wages in an effort to make a living. The third family is well assigned. She lives in a large basement in a fancy home in Reykjavík, under the shelter of the other person's parents, and she has good opportunities to save her full property for a few years of high income. She gets 4 million. She gets four million when she leaves and buys her first apartment. Would anyone think of setting up the system like this, some families getting 0, 2 million and another 4 million? No, of course not, but it is being tried to hide it in this case that it is not a discrimination instrument, an insectation of the kind that it is. Let's have some temporary actions, such as here legalized in 2014 for a three-year period where you could use your special property savings and get a tax discount to fix your situation just after the crash and/or pay off your head seat. But there's more to it than this. This is where a 10-year discrimination system of this kind should be established for young people and their potential for real estate. It's impossible for you to think of that. It's impossible to hear and it takes at least The Independence Party with its pleasant support team in the pursuit. And that will not be the end of the discrimination, or the situation, because considering the situation of these three families in the past ten years or when the money has been given, 0,2 million, 4 million, the best set family, the one who had to be called on to support, settled into her own homes, and made quite a possession because she has been especially helped to do so. The middle family is probably in irons somewhere, not having much of a place to live. The 0 family, who did not receive a crown, is most likely to remain in a rented market in a difficult situation. [[Take it up, move it out of the country.]] Yeah, if she hasn't left the country. This isn't working, Mr. President. That's not the way to deal with it. This doesn't hold the opinion of equality and fairness in our country. It's not working out. Why, then, are there not the same amount of money taken and placed in general housing for all families, if not a prosthesis so that the income - rich families could be more supportive? One day it would have been all right. What did he say? Economic and financial ministers here on the pediatrics before today? How did he justify all the cuts and minimums of the child reforms? Yes, we would like to help the most earnable family. He quickly forgot when he began to recommend this bill and began to try to justify his success, admit that his support would vary according to the level of pay. So why not take a certain amount of money and say: It is available to all young families in support of their first purchase, if it is willing to try to split them? 2 million, and only pay off once the purchase is confirmed. Everybody gets even. Or setting up a general housing system and the State, e.g. A city in return paid a dime to the bills that would be paid for the purchase of homes so that everyone will get equal according to what they're trying to save. Let us imagine that this would be the way for the majority of student's earnings who walked into such mortgages to be regarded as no income in the understanding of the loan fund of Icelandic students. Then they may try to earn money and work with the study and begin building this fund. What will be the situation of those who are in such a position that they have to rely on the money fund of Icelandic students through advanced university education? They can't raise only 1 million bucks. In income, their credit rights go down. They do not have a great chance of making a contribution to their special savings. Obviously not. They have 30 or more, gone from school, going into this 10-year system, etc.? There's so much fault in this, I don't believe that a man's plan is to legalize it for ten years, even if the independence party loves its special housing policy. If there is a will and he is sure to be there, I think everyone will agree on it, we would like to support young people who want to choose by themselves trying to have their own home, live their own housing, that's what they do. There is good reason to be especially helpful at the first purchase, that is, the hardest threshold, and that is done in many places. Of course, equal justice is also needed for those who are in rentable and who are not showing favoritism in that sense, but there are many better and, in fact, all better ways than this one, which is much better able to answer the requirement of equality and justice. It's absolutely perfect. Then there are other aspects of this matter. I don't give much money for the costs and evaluate the long - term effects of it on the income of the state and rural society. Here, naturally, the exact same deception play as when the previous custom-renowned bill showed in 2014 that there is no future lost in this operation, it is not an attempt to evaluate it. True, the authors are honest enough to say at the bottom of the page. 11: ▪ The effect of the release is considerable, but as shown in this report, it cannot be accurately estimated since there is no distribution of income loss. Of course, because of the increased participation in these tax-free special property savings, a good deal of remuneration takes place in addition to the special property in other areas where there is a loss of income, otherwise taxation, and subsequent application of income taxation and return to the list of names. But that is not all the story said because to the extent that this money had entered the special delivery system and grew there for 20, 30 years, the state and rural communities, under our law, had received a full income tax and later taken out of the entire payment, as well as the fruitage. The future loss, the account that is sent into the future by this is much larger than it appears to be at the beginning. This is trying to hide, in any case, do not try to calculate. Has the highest. A financial minister arranged a deal with the local communities on this matter? The last time, the government was going to improve the rural population to some extent in response to the loss of income. How has it been done? Is it cool to share their money? And have they paid back? you may ask. I'm not aware that the rural community has agreed to legalize this whole ten years into the future, because while man makes plans and some loose calculations about the potential extent of this now, there is no record of how it might be in five years' time or so and how many would participate in it, etc. Of course, that is not the point. I am not the most occupied of it, though it is, of course, a loss of income and an account that has been sent far into the future, much to a large extent, about 40% of the cost calculated, so it will be hidden and stored in the future. To me, the prince of this matter is most important. I just can't put up with it, fixing it about ten years in the future. No, thank you. Of course, such discrimination systems do not work, that is quite easy to see. V.E.G. The government is now in the contingency of the election to speak up in a great deal about its magnificentness in housing matters and, of course, owning all the debt of the household with skin and hair. We're talking about a decrease in debt, the debt of the homes of gross domestic product, as if it were all theirs and their actions. I guess it's increasing real estate prices, increasing domestic production, and continuous action from 2009 to and, of course, the correction and all the things that might be said about. It is a pleasure to find that the debt of the households, which is a percentage of GDPs, has dropped handsomely, with a large increase in domestic production. V.E.G. Secretary of finance mentioned that it exceeded 100% during the last term. Unfortunately, one of the greatest economic weaknesses for collapse was an enormous debt of Icelandic households. Icelandic homes were the second largest in the world years before collapse. It was naturally one of the reasons why this was so painful for the domestics and homes status of the households, how badly we were prepared to face tragedy with all the debt the years before the collapse had included. loaded to your homes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u77	A respectable president. I'm going to make one comment to the example given here to explain the effects of the bill, it's about that here we're talking about people's self-rich. We are not talking about a general tax account that is being distributed, as was done in the case. A senator took it. We're talking about the self-authority of people we're not taxing. There is a fundamental difference. When we give in to taxes, we don't take people's self-inflicted resources, it can't be compared to spreading from the public taxpayers to the cities. This is the problem with comparison as long as it takes. A senator did. I must also say that I have not heard this criticism as strong as it is in this conversation before the election, but in the foundation, it is the exact same strategy as we legalize 2014, i.e. the ability to take out the special property that humans provide, of course, is always higher as they earn more money. This procedure will correspond, as presented, approximately. 3% increase in salary for the participants. What's actually being said here is that there are the biggest earners in the world who should be paid the most if we were to translate this into a kind of raise as I am here to judge. It's just a view that can be held. Then I just notice that we have had some special actions that we are laying on billions of tax dollars in order to reduce the burden of those who, for example, intend to live in public apartments or who will receive housing benefits. There are other special measures that we have registered for these groups. It is just enough that any action that comes to good advantage from people in the country. The first government made a significant increase in income taxation at all more than 240,000 dollars. [[The president calls.]] That's the people who've been the worst out of the collapse. It's the people who were the worst after the crash, and they're the people, the middle-temperature, who are the most enjoying of this operation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u78	Madam President. It's right next to the highest. Secretary of finance that we introduced the step-in-the-way income tax system and achieved by shielding the income-priority group from total tax increases. Thank you so much, chief. Secretary of the budget and economy, to confirm that. You see, that's exactly right, we made it conscious, and it worked out perfectly in the system we picked up. We made it clear that the busiest group could not bear the added spells, but the others who only a broader bed would have to do more than that, while building the land in ruins. We tried to find the fair distribution of the stores, the taxpayers, and we've had it confirmed and accepted by a number of sources. Because it's the highest. The prime minister now speaks of international attention to his accomplishments, that Iceland chose a way out of the crisis that was very successful in protecting the two groups from the ill. V.E.G. The minister of finance is not pleased with the example. I thought it might have to be tried out of the way, that they can't talk about it like that because it's people's resources. I'm not talking about the part that people would have inside their special property savings. I'm talking about government and local tax payoffs. It is like all other financial resources, and it is not cut apart. So it's perfectly valid to set the example, as I did here. In this sense, when you look at what it's like to share government taxes, government assistance and rural society, that's how it's supposed to be the cruel difference between young families in this country, some to get an 0. If they're going to try to run an apartment purchase, another 2 million, and they're going to have four million.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u79	A respectable president. In fact, we disagree on this vision in principle. When we don't tax people's resources, we're not paying the government's taxes, we're just taking less taxes. But it's like whisk. A senator always feels that this begins with the state's having everything people earn, and then he allows it to keep part of it. It is the contribution of the State to the individual after he has performed his work. When, between 2009 and 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013, combined with 390 billion angles, for various reasons not the time to go into this area, you ask yourself: " How much would this exchange of income taxes have lost? I'm not sure it's important. Is it not true that the three - step income tax system was very small in the context of the state's budget, but mostly the income balance operation in the left - handed categories? Once we've made the change back and have it from the next two weeks, we'll be in step up to 800,000. Which is less than the lowest level in the old system. Who now enjoy most of that change? It is the intermediate but also the underpayers because it pays lower income taxes. It's the earnings of more than 800,000. who enjoy the least of this change. Not to be overlooked is the fact that when people want to talk about having specifically spared the lowest wage that the left government will cancel insurance personal discounts because there was financial hardship. Unchecking the temporal indexing of a person's discount, was the worst for those who were earners. This is not to be released the will of man goes into the details.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u80	Mr. President. I can take a complete meeting, and I'm not required to take a two-day course of action for the last administration of this, if that's the case. But let's not stick to this great matter. The secretary of finance for now? V.E.G. The secretary of finance is trying to say that it is somehow different if the government is made of income because it does not allow paying in the country to be taxed and therefore not to talk about things the way I do. With the same reasoning, the highest. Presumably, the secretary of finance just said, "There's no tax reduction, but the state isn't giving up anything even if it lets go of the income tax, and maybe the rurals too. What kind of compromise is this? This is part of the government's second largest income supply system, where taxes are directed. Dessert on them, isn't that money from the government fund? Do you not want to install an account in which you set out the amount of money that is set aside? Yeah, it's exactly like I've gone over and that's all I need to say. In terms of income tax changes during the last term, they were certainly a major revenue tool. The government had previously done with the income tax system that was flat in one step, no pressure on the highest salary, the high income tax was laid out in stages in 2003◯2007, so Iceland was becoming one of the few countries in the world who had no special extra fees for super-employment or offers, and so on. It was now one part of the craziness of the school years and the super-employment years that the high - income tax that had been on the people, a measure of pressure on all the highest wages - no, it was laid down on them. Of course we changed that. And, of course, we weigh the tax burden on the wealthiest people in the country. What else was to be done? It certainly was just one of the countless steps that were taken to correct the interest of a government fund. I feel like the highest. The minister of finance and the others in the administrative home could remember what they received - a stable government fund in 2013. [[The president calls.]] Who Accepted the Challenge? [[The president calls.]] Who took the shit out of you?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u81	The people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u82	Who accepted the unpopulars from that political action? That's right, the people in the country were the ones carrying the load, but we had to stand for it as politicians and think it's the highest. A minister of finance would not be greater if he sometimes thanked him for benefiting from all the efforts of the former government in this regard. [[Yes, and the people for the Lands Bank.]] [[The president calls.]] [[...the people for...]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u83	President wants to ask why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u84	A respectable president. It is both challenging and in a certain way an honor to follow a conversation between the present and the former secretary of finance on very important matters and the interpretation of history. I'm not going to retrace my position on that subject unless I believe that by the collective efforts of many politicians, a great many officials, and the people of the country, the economy has been able to raise up from unprecedented conditions following the collapse. On this matter, I'd like to say first that I feel like I've got a political releaser on what to do with this special property. In the wake of the collapse, an emergency strategy allowed people to take out their special property savings in their previous circumstances, they were very difficult. Then perhaps it was difficult to turn aside. Then, as part of the government's debt deposit package, it was taken up to offer these provisions. I think the lesson in this is generally the need to be discussed in a broader context and in general and with the related analysis what we're going to do with this special property. I am quite open to it, provided that the general pension system is good and can be trusted that this special property share is kept so that more freedom is allowed in its provision among those who go that way. It is quite possible to use continued tax incentives for the future so that people will use the special savings part of their home accounts to put in other types of savings that houses can certainly be or investments in innovation or something like that. I just wanted to say at the beginning that I feel that it needs to be discussed on the basis of an analysis, on the basis of the nation's future interest, on the basis of what economic motivation is wise to promote and then it is possible to use this part of the pension system in some way. Here we are doing a certain operation where the first apartments, mostly young people, are to be granted permission to take out the special tax-free and put on a head chair and loans over a period of ten years. Then I have to say, I think the smell of this acid and especially with other things the government has made during the season. It's not far since yesterday that we spoke here a thing that I think comes a little strange into this picture all, the loan bill. And what is this overall picture? Yes, there is a bit, very much, very strangely, being to help those who have much, that is to reward those who have a lot between hands, have at least Fair enough. I think it's pretty obvious that here is a firm, thought - provoking, ideological dispute over how we should use the government and what motivation we want to create in the economy. This government, the right government, has apparently been successful in trying to reward the greatest earner of all money and in an effort to encourage people to look for the maximum income. I'm gonna go over this a little bit. The correction was burned to this end, the so - called correction. It was so that those who owed the most, those who had most, those who had bought the most, received the most. There was nothing to look at there. It was just divided out, even to people who could have been saved by the income they had. They didn't watch their income. That money was just replaced. In the short future, we called it soon. It was simply giving money from a treasure to people who didn't need it, just to be told. They were about to raise the value tax on food. Food is something that everyone needs to buy, whether he is a low income or a high income. During a discussion about this matter, it was a fine thing to say that material - colored people would suffer badly. It is cut off for interest, which will help those who are trying to break an unheard amount of interest in Iceland and try to buy a house. They're in on the income. This can be done by tax steps, which are the tools of the income tax system, in an effort to settle the population's income so that it can fit into this overall picture. Then there's the loan bill we were discussing here yesterday, and I mentioned earlier. There is an income cut on the loans that will result in a future effort to study, since they can expect high incomes. In other words, study is made as expensive for everyone as a bill on student loans and scholarships. Wherever things are equally expensive to everyone - mortgages are the same as cars, poor people buy smaller cars, cheaper cars, wealthy people buy bigger cars because they can afford them. The same will likely happen with student loans and studies. Little people, people who don't see much future gains, will educate themselves little, and people who see so much future gains will not worry about it, they will be able to educate themselves extensively. They're being rewarded. With this bill, another piece of puzzle comes into it, that people who can expect to earn a lot of money have a lot of money, which is probably the same people who have also educated themselves a lot because they can afford it, get the highest scholarship according to this. This is linked with income, which increases as you earn more money. It's another piece of puzzle into the obvious ideology that most of them are to be rewarded. Is that the right course? I feel like we have to talk about it because it's like this, it's being done in so many areas. The largest action by this government in debt, and now in the student loan system, and in housing, this sign is burned. Those who earn most are the ones that get the most. Is that wise? I'd like to mention three reasons why I don't think that's wise. First of all, I find it inhuman. I feel that those who have remembered should have more than the most. I feel equal in a society simply human being. We're supposed to try to bridge the gap between groups in the community. From this Hhuman argument, I don't think it's a bad course, and it's inhuman. Besides, I don't think she's smart, too. With all of this, young people who are deciding which direction to go in life are being directed with all the motivations available as politicians in an effort to find highly paid jobs. Then you get the most special savings paid on tax-free rates, your student loans are not going to be as much of a load as you did on the streets. Is this practical for society? No, no, no, no, no, no. This is a one-on-one thing. We are to have always taken steps in our social organization so that people too can choose a means of living independent of money. We need experts, artists, scientists, and those who choose to be interested in themselves and who would like to get a roof over their heads at the same time, although they may not be able to expect direct success in the form of income. This may result in other results. Just based on whether it is economically wise to encourage such self - determination, to encourage such a high degree of appeal to income-rich jobs, I think it is unwise to pursue such an unsatisfactory course. Besides, it's a bridge with public money. The adjustment so - called burning was to share large amounts of money with people on the straight track, I would say, in their debt status, had large assets that have only grown in value since then and had good income. The money was spent there by billions of times. In this operation the same should be done. I would like to hear the analysis that says that the people who are at the top of the roof are at the climax of a special payment and are getting the biggest tax cut, having considerable problems in getting up for first unhelped payment. Any person who has no children, recently out of school, and with this income should be able to save himself. The other students, or they are long gone from school, away from it, with little income, have just very little income, get very little according to these provisions. There is no lower value to the group, it is everywhere. They can buy, I don't know, a room somewhere. There is a very small number of minimum wage earners from special savings. Isn't that how this operation works? Those who get, they don't need. Those who need, they don't get. It's a waste. That's not fair. It's a brooch. That's not the way to spend your tax dollars. This is no way to spend money from a common fund. That kind of impulse shouldn't be created. It's not just being done with this bill, it's doing so many other things. The government's economic policy, the social policy of this government, is all about bringing those who do not need, and there's nothing or little for those who need it. Except for one thing, afterwards we'll discuss the interest and insurance bill. It shows what the underpayers get, the right to borrow money at 40 years of age. [[Take it up to that which it has.]] Yes, what it has. If that bill is approved, it will be the right to accept a guarantee loan of 40 years to the lowest wage in the population that receives something. It's kind of impressive what he gets, he gets the right to take one of the world's most controversial loans, the so-called Iceland loans, the price insurance for 40 years, so the government hasn't completely forgotten this group. What is the need for such an operation? I've come to think of a significant ideological, economic, and national goal of the basic thinking. I think we should try to have some trace of equations in this, try to help those who have it for some reason worse, but perhaps less worry about those who are so good at it. We should try to contribute to their continued good, and of course, try not to have the tax system and all the economic policies, so that they are too burdensome for those who are good but, in any case, look intently at those who are bad. They do not get much out of these measures. Then there's the need and timing. It was thus with the correction at the time, a down payment of debt, where the government simply decided to pay a portion of the headstone loans to anyone, mostly to the people who had a lot, that the debt rate had already dropped very much in society. It was a bit obvious at the very height. For this reason, the minister of finance gave a speech showing that the national debt ratio was below 100%, but a man had to point out the highest point. The minister's claim that the correction had not been made. The whole development was this way anyway. I feel completely absent in this case some analysis of the situation now and for what other strategy to take. Clearly, small apartments need to be increased. [[The president calls.]] The lease needs to be reinforced. Above all, growth is needed. They're 7.8% in Iceland and 0.8% in Germany. That's the big problem. [[The president calls.]] I always feel like we're doing some quacky medicine.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u85	Madam President. I'm going to begin by saying what happened at the end, we have to find ways to build up for a fall in the land. However, it will not be done if you want to go out a 10, 12 or 13% increase in pay every year, as we have done in the past year, and from this council, you are getting a message that you are going to make a big increase in your government spending. There is no doubt that interest will be reduced, but there are ways to build more stability and lower growth. I bet you are. What I wanted to talk to you about is a little. A senator makes it a subject that most people have no need. I'm going to disagree completely. If we look at each of the revenues in Iceland today, about 550,000, we are covering these resources just above the intermediate income. The largest number of people who can take advantage of the resources is middle carers, people who had a tax rise during the last term. I have to say just as I'm tired of being watched by the nation's interstates with the view that they're all too good, they can be raised on that taxes, and they should be left out when they're going to take general action because it's so easy to get a roof over their head and be able to save themselves. I think it's the wrong approach. I think the fact is that people who are involved in these incomes just a considerable amount of money are struggling to buy housing, people who earn about 500,000, or intermediate income of 550,000. No one's gonna tell me it's just no problem, it's just easy and easy for such families to cover their heads with. [[The president calls.]] It's not like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u86	A respectable president. No one's saying it's easy to get a roof over your head. There is a need to save, and it has long been a symptom in Icelandic economy that savings seems to be difficult. It seems difficult to make a contribution because humans have been competing with all kinds of expensive events over the years, high prices. Now it is a large house - to - house price. Nobody's saying it's easy in some way. Besides, I'm not offering extra spells on middle-gradists. I'm discussing the motivation for this. If we're going to help someone, I think it's better to help those who have it, then worse than middle-temperatures. I think that's how we should be motivated. That's the way it is, for example. The discount is thought, if you're down to a certain income, you don't pay taxes because it's not appropriate to take taxes from such low incomes. That's where we have the motivation. Why? Because it's human, isn't it? Here's the catalyst for the man who's still in the roof, and if you're anywhere down there, you're not gonna get much. That's it, isn't it? Yesterday we were discussing the student loan system, where this is so that those who have the lowest amount of their salary in student loans. Those who have at least paid the highest share. I think it's reverse and I think it's a very strange course. I'm not talking about adding curses to middle-gradists when I say this. I'm discussing that in so many areas it's just that this government wants it like this. She wants people to have more as they earn more or more. I think it's strange. And so is the interest. Has the highest. Ministers, so I return back to answer, believe that if we held back our state expenses for necessary investments and welfare and paid off debts that we are blessed to make the most money in Iceland? [[The president calls.]] When will he see it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u87	Madam President. I believe that if the workforce and the government work together, there can be a basis for less growth. I strongly feel that way. The discussion is a bit extreme. I think this is a modest way that's not in the extremes that appear here during the discussion, that pleases the most people in their hands. We draw the line just above the interstate. When people talk about measures that are necessary for those less involved in the hands, I feel that sometimes I feel that the same way is going so far as to send the message to people that they just don't care what they are doing, what they are doing, what they're doing, what they're going to do, what they're going to do to be doing to themselves because the state will come after all social groups and level the game somehow, that the state will thus lift up with those who have mentioned, that it is ultimately irrelevant what people are willing to do in order to save themselves or own their homes and other living homes because if you have less income and would be less, it would be better to make up for the difference. I know why. A senator would not feel that way. We must be able to find some balance where there is the motivation to work more, and government messages will be: We will not take it all away from you to make arrangements for others who have less. To find the right rhythm and balance between these two goals, this debate in the Assembly Hall is an endless dance. Of course, it's not quite so black and white, as the conversation brings out, as we're merely saluting those who are chemical memorizing and those who have mentioned among the hands will never get anything. We have just agreed to accept many billion to those who are least qualified for housing, general socialize, and housing benefits. [[The president calls.]] This operation is for the intermediate workers. Those who have proclaimed a return to the three - step tax system are saying nothing more than that there are wide banks in the middle of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u88	A respectable president. I like the highest. Indeed, the minister of finance says that this is not a question of black or white, it is a balance art that I studied in my speech. We're talking about what motivation we're creating in the economy, in the community. I thought it was obvious that this government was a bit much for trying to create the incentive that men would seek a high salary. It's just that when people get the most from a government fund in the form of a tax exchange, study becomes even more inexpensive for a higher salary. For example, remove the revenue connection. There are, however, tax increases that this government has attacked, as it were, an increase in food taxation that was worst for those who had at least cut off the step shift. I traced it earlier in my speech. Yeah, we're talking about balance. We're talking about where the pendulum is looking. He obviously looks in that direction with this government that it does not care more about those who have less to play. It can be reasoned that, for example, those who are under the average income of the land will be affected. the understatement of these measures is very low, the people will not be able to get a roof over their heads, a couple with an average income, each with $550,000. This is 1.1 million per month. Of course, I don't think that people have something huge, but because of the people who are on the initial steps of their lives after college and who may not have great needs, not with a large family, I'm going to ask: Is it right to have to take special action beyond trying to increase the provision of housing, try to reduce growth with the measures available to us, try to create a general basis? Is there a need for special measures to help this group save and create housing? [[The president calls.]] Is it not far better to focus on the general basis rather than on giving more and more wealth when it comes to the important work?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u89	Madam President. This has been an interesting discussion here today and a great need. It is clear that the subject we are considering, the bill on support to buy at the first apartment, is very controversial, as it has clearly been. No matter what. A minister tries to convince us that this is a good thing and that to improve the situation of a large group, we cannot accept it in the lesser part. I think we'll agree on that. Of course, I agree with my partner's words earlier that in a prince's hand, it's all about how this will lead us to rest on our young people for the future. This is not an attempt to think about how these people will be felt when they grow up, and it is quite clear that this is just a matter of speculating a certain amount of weight against them far into the future. When this is about a average wage, like the highest. The secretary of finance did, and just like when you're talking about the LIN bill, it's very misleading. For this age group, 25◯34 years of age, it would normally be better to consider the median rather than the average wage. If this is done, the number in the group will decrease from 550 years old. K. down to 290 fars. Q, if taken into account in 2014, to 384,400 k. in the age range 30◯34 years. It's not the image the Minister and the government are drawing up now, and it's a little bit of an election. It is true, too, that here has been a request for an answer to the correction of some of the members of the government that has not been able to answer. However, new measures are being under way, which, of course, are still under way when the previous major operation to 80 billion is not yet under way, i.e. how she suffered for all age groups and many more questions that are underlying and that have not been answered. It would be interesting for the government to take care of their pants there and answer questions. It would be worth asking, is it not intended to do so before elections? Don't they dare? Or what is standing in the way? Can't they? Despite their heavy and fat declarations, do they simply not know how this will happen to individuals and families in the country? There's a lot of talk about the intervening party, and, as the minister said earlier, which is, of course, just the policy of the Independence Party, that if you make some effort, you'll get something for it. This is always the case with people living under similar circumstances, i.e. can put forth effort in the sense of the words that a minister puts into them, expecting that as you earn more, you will be rewarded more. What is the need for people with high incomes? We've thought she was small. But the wide banks can obviously be found. We've been discussing a wealth tax, and earlier it was making the shoes so that he had worn, and I don't know if it should only be poor widows or something like that, and would have to be worn if they were laid on, but there are many ways to expand money taxes. [[Up front.]] I think the government should have done it rather than have this pension with the richest people in the country. The average pay for a pensioner e.g. you may find that you have just about 200 far away. K. In a month, he can't get through payment, he's in bad shape at rent markets, etc. I have to agree with the people here who have spoken and asked how this is going to come together and if we as children who are still at home should assume that they need to be at home until they're 40 years old or how this is supposed to be. Well, it's a long time that goes into this way of saving. I can't see that it's fully implemented. In the bill on page 16. 4. According to the proposed extension of current resources, there are 37,000 individuals who have participated in the provision of special savings to mortgages in July. I'd like to see a date on this. Who are the people who are making good use of these things? Is it the evil balance of an intermediate group or who are these people? That's what I'd like to see. Then there's the change that's spoken of, i.e. the use of special funds on the head chair. It is said that only the payments can be paid on unscrupulous loans. Then you must pay a considerable amount of time before you get to comb the head seat. That's quite a change. Here students are drawn from this example, although they must be, in many respects, one of the largest groups involved here, i.e. Young people who are finishing school, hopefully, going straight to rent. It cannot accumulate in the predatory tenant of today's dominant market. I can't imagine how this works except for those who can stay at home. Then I'd like to talk about the growth reform system in this relationship, as it's only been established. There I believe that the equation is the greatest when we look at those who have made plans for interest and who have continued to receive interest offerings may be more effective in supporting the young. And the young people who have put a roof over their heads and who would have assumed this money will no longer do so. No matter how a minister tries to make this statement, it's those who have a higher income that comes out better. I'd like to come into the countryside for a minute. They have a statement on these matters. In the small attempt on the bill to evaluate this, it is claimed that there will be an increase in real estate taxes due to an increase in real estate markets unchanged and it will offset the less rural response. I love this year very much. It is worth reminding you that there is not just one area in the country, and when the building was called to a climax before the collapse of the country's complex, there was a no match for what happened in the big capital area. As a result, it is not possible to say that the national response or entirely the real estate taxes will rise. There is also a lack of housing in the country, but what may have caused people to be generally afraid of building on the land is just as much as we know, that building a house on the land as in the capital, but it does not cost as much. In some places, large amounts can be canceled as soon as they are imported. As a result, if the bill succeeds, it will not go unnoticed by a minister of the local community who would consider himself to be one of the huge sums. According to Reykjavíkurburg, it is estimated that some 15 billion of our rural society can survive. Present - day provision, which is already valid, carries the cost of about 5 billion in the event that it is observed. To extend it, the cost is around 3.2 billion. The first building we are considering here costs the population around 720 million a year. How's the top? Minister to add this to the communities? This is still true in the case of the city of Reykjavík, which has been discussed here, is confined to a committee and has not received any payment. There is not only that, but it also needs to be thought that rural society will also have to carry the cost of more money because of the additional pensions of rural workers leading to higher insurance costs. These are also things that are relevant and that have not been entered and have not been resolved. According to the mayor of Reykjavík, at the reactor just moments ago, the loss spreads widely. The largest loss in Kapovogi, Hafnarfjördur, and Mosfellstown will be the loss. V.E.G. Similarly, a minister should hear that in a GEE bank crisis, there is a particularly great loss and has been noticed. It also states that the city grew into more than 600 million. K. last year's receipts are due to this. So the communities in the country have already said that if something is not done, they will not be happy about it. I miss seeing prominent in the conversation, and I wondered if it's a bargain. The insurance will be discussed afterward, and it will be interesting to see if the candidates will be coming to the house and whether they will be able to comment on it or not. It was four members of the Annexe Party who made a pact proposal to introduce public protests at the first purchase. I would have liked to hear those four dogs. Councilmen, Lára Arnardóttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir, and Ásmundur Daðason Daddaron, discuss how they feel about this particular way. Are they happy or not? They go further in their proposal for resources to help those who are heading toward their first real estate purchases as well as those who have somehow lost their home and are returning to their real estate market. The choice was to come to the aid of these people. Like the British government, they want to build the system on a house - to - house saving route. They say that the basic idea of the British route is to help young people with their first apartment purchases by public repercussion. Where are these people now? Doesn't it think this is the way to move? Is it going to approve? It is quite different from the way these four members of the council suggested. I miss them during the discussion. I agree with them that there has been a rapid rise in real estate prices in the past few years. There is a great demand to pass payment, there is a decrease in credit rates to loan agencies, a huge increase in rent prices, etc. There are so many things that make it more difficult for people to get to a housing market and call for action from the government. A paper with the council proposal says, with permission of the president: The potential for using special savings for loans or payment on property is a step in the right direction but is not used by all social groups. Thus, it was useful for those who have obtained only limited income in a work - market. It would have been interesting to have a conversation with the members of the council, but for some reason they do not feel that these matters are discussed with us. Despite the clumsiness of the government's success, the support of the housing market and the like has not been seen, they express themselves very little here in a pita. They offer very little opportunity to communicate, which is very negative. I could go over more. Here are some interesting corneas from the welfare and financial department that would have been nice to be able to discuss, but my time is running out. Madam President. I think this case is something I can't agree with and will not be able to support, because it's still one of the issues that lead to more inequities.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u90	A respectable president. I have to start by wondering that this bill is starting to appear right now when there are only a few days left of the job. This refers to a tremendous system change that, of course, will have a major impact on the way consumption is in society and whether people will try to get things; this is the natural part of a special property package. Governments. I just don't see how this is going to help young people. Now I'm young, I'm 26 years old, I'm relatively new to school, and I'm in the position that I'm here for Congress, so I'm at Congress. Still, it doesn't seem to be possible for me to feel comfortable, even though I'm on such a high salary simply because I've never had the opportunity to save money for payment. You see, with the generation coming on, as it were, to take its first step in society, it was largely to the victims of the crash. I don't think people fully understand what it was like to be 18 or 19 years old trying to get a job at the time when everyone was supposed to be raising money. Similarly, if you are going to try to educate yourself as an Icelandic student today, you are directly confined to a low - paying trap. You've got 150,000 leftovers. ... to 180,000K. In fact, it has changed dramatically over the past month, but what Icelandic students earn each year has been severely restricted. A person like me who has tried to work with school most of my life has really nothing between his hands when he comes out to the general labour market - in fact, not the general labour market in my case, but hardly a general labour market. But just having a down payment is such a big problem that I don't see how it's gonna help. I agree with it. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon said that this will actually benefit them most of all. Now I let myself do a few calculations, and I see that this is expected to last 5 million for as much as 10 years. If I was taking my special pensions, that would be about 30,000 bucks. ... ina monthand 15,000Ks. It's 45,000 bucks. per month. That's 500,000 a year. If you are going to make full use of this as soon as you get out of school, you need to have saved up for a down payment on an apartment. If we're talking about our existing housing prices - 20 square feet [20 square meters] in a basement - we're talking about people somehow having the means to save themselves 5 million in order to pay off their apartment and get 80% loans. That's not enough for the 45,000 bucks, or the 40,000 bucks. a month because I can't use all my pension savings, since it's only 5 million in 10 years; that means that's 500,000 bucks. In a year or less. So we can see that in order to make full use of this resources, a newly educated individual needs to be in an exceptionally good social situation. I don't really know how this is going to help, I just can't see. It is also noted that they receive housing and housing, and I don't know what. If we look at the figures, these huge numbers that are covered by rent - if you have 200,000 bucks. In monthly pay, you'll get $22,000.; 300,000 k. Less than 15,000.; 400,000K. Less than 7,000 bucks. And 500,000 bucks. it's now zero. We're talking about the cost of rent in the rented area - this is now the highest. Minister gone, but I'm sure it's like always, chief. Ministers do not seem to be interested in listening to women. But all right, I'll just keep going. We're talking about the amount of housing you put here - an apartment like me renting is at 180,000 bucks. I think it's a nice robe for a three-bedroom apartment. I couldn't afford to live alone there with my boyfriend without being on this salary simply because rent prices have become so high. We're talking about a rented apartment now rented at 200,000 dollars. 220,000 k. There are more than many in monthly wages when they are just out of work. At the same time, if you have a low-paying job, the duty pension isn't gonna hold hair. So I think I have to agree with what. Congress officials who have tore up why it's not a good idea. I would rather see other options to encourage young people to save their homes. Then I can imagine on the basis of a loan that allows a student's student's credit so that his income can be higher each year, provided that students lay down a closed book designed for housing purchases, perhaps something that could be done simply because the current arrangement for students is not good. If a student works too hard, the student's loan will be impaired, which is all right. Of course, there is a limit to how much it is, and there is also room to save. I see no reason to be basking with this special pension money, I just don't see the point of it. People will simply have to be in a special position when they buy their apartment. These indefinitely endless housing benefits are not a bird or a fish in this relationship, especially since rent - rent prices are totally out of control. I think it would be much better if we were to fix young people's personal status, to meet young people in a rented market so that they can save themselves if they are interested. So I don't have much faith in the bill, but it'll probably have to be discussed more. On the other hand, I take my heart to accept the criticism shown here. I'm not gonna have my case any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u91	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in growth and insurance laws, No. 38/2001, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests to limit authority to grant long - term remuneration loans in a way that ensures that their maximum loan time becomes a primary policy of 25 years. These loans have sometimes been known as Icelandic loans in social debates and are very common in the Icelandic loan market. They have been quite popular for offering one of the lowest payoffs at the beginning of their credit period. Although this will be so according to the bill that the maximum loan time is that the main policy at 25 years is not restricted. The bill contains a wide variety of accessories. First, people under the age of 44 are expected to be able to accept the same amount of credit so that only a small portion of their credit period remains when they reach retirement years. Thus, credit rates from creditors as secure as credit loans may be up to 40 years old, up to 35 years of age, and up to 30 years of age are borrowed. Then there is a special release because of the low income that can make it difficult to live up to the payments on unsecured loans and shorter prices equal payment loans. You may recall a discussion about this at the council earlier this year when information was taken up on how many people have taken and passed credit on to borrowing, using the 40 - year remuneration loan would be passed on payment on a similar 25 - year loan. It was found that only depending on financial institutions, it was that a large proportion of those who had taken the 40 years'loans could not measure up to paying on the 25 - year loan. Therefore, the exception is due to the low income of individuals entered into the bill, but it is evident that there are in particular less income, but there is also a special exception when the mortgage rate does not exceed 50%, as there is a very low risk of overdue and problems for borrowing. I'd also like to say that because of only the limitations of new loans, the bill does not affect the authority to take over older loans or secure loans with equal payments. Its credit is different, and it is important to maintain it. A respectable president. I'd like to state that this bill is to be considered in context of a bill for support in the first apartment that I've submitted at the same time at the General Assembly and is to have the incentive to take unsecured loans in a certain way, at least Support to those who choose the option in the loan market. Also, in that bill, it is easy for those who prefer shorter price - guarantee loans. By doing this, I feel that making security loans and shorter price insurance loans make more realistic options for housing owners, but they will always have to consider every option before making the final decision. This bill takes a step toward reducing the form of insurance that we have ideally lived on in recent years, these 40 years' worth of credit. As we know, in certain circumstances, such loans can lead to overage in property and intensification than in other loan forms. The bill listed here contains tablets that make this quite clear. It shows how the head chair of a credit loan develops over the loan time during a 40 - year - old remuneration loan. It's only a few days since the last person I heard who mentioned it to me that he was very unhappy to believe that in recent years, he had been raising his head chair, despite his clearly paying every cent for about ten years. This is something that many will no doubt recognize, but the fact is that even if inflation remains constant throughout the 40 - year loan period, it has been prior to the start of the loan that the ossuary would rise and it would actually increase for the first more than 20 years in such a loan. This gives us reason to ask whether consumers are generally well - informed about what they are taking, what awaits when such loans are taken. There is good reason to encourage the loan companies in the country not only to print out long payments that show how their monthly payments will be paid in a long number of years but also to illustrate visual and in the best possible way to draw out all the relevant information for loans. This example of what I'm saying is very typical, so to speak, of what is meant by so many that once ten years have passed, people should not have been surprised to learn about the loans they were taking. This bill that is presented here is presented concomitantly, in context of the bill that was discussed earlier today. This case is a step toward reducing the use of the Iceland Bars and I know that the plans for the bill will be discussed very well during the council and the Committee. I would like to add to the conclusion that despite the actions presented in the subjects we have discussed today, each time the government's main project is to build for stability and a lower interest level. This has often been said in the discussion here today. Lower interest rates are called. It is not surprising to identify the neighboring countries and the growing stages there. Me, for example. I studied that in Norway at this time, dissociative loans are given to young people at just over 1% interest, despite the presence of inflation in the area of 31.74%, with well within 1%. It is only natural to think about this, but it is extremely important that we try to find a reasonable answer and a conclusion on the reasons and basis for this difference at the Council as a team and as a result. But I'm only going to come to that, once again, that there needs to be a change in the framework of the labour market in the spirit of the person we are discussing right now under the markings of the SALEK meeting. The change must be made; there must be a much better agreement between the government and the labour market on the individual budgets of the economy, in order to achieve pay and on the other hand, to add on the payoffs of the State. The labour market and the public are the largest sources of influence on growth in the country under which we are in control. We have extremely little control over so many other business ventures and the situation in other countries, our business income and measures such as oil prices, import costs. On this point, we have very little control. Since I mentioned the example of Norway, the inflation that is measured there today, precisely because of such factors, because of the great weakness of the Norwegian crown, is going over the economy. This project has been carried out for a long time, as it were, with success. For example, since I was playing in the sandbox at the nursery school at the age of three and until I graduated from high school, the inflation was constantly above 20%. She never went under 20%. It was, in fact, an excess of 20%. Comparing it with the last 25 years is like comparing apples with oranges, these are different things, the trend has become much more favorable since 1990, but we have seen dips, plaques, which have been behind the employees and homes of the country. A few times inflatable inflation, which has been a sign that the underlying stability has not been sufficient. This task is not ours, although it is the two main issues we are making today to try to influence the quality of our loans to the future Icelanders. The work behind that bill began early in the term. We planned a committee, had a commission on the insurance policy, it was not quite the sole conclusion of the Committee, but there was more, quite clear, that ordered the government to take certain measures. One of the operations was just what we're preaching, to forbid that 40 - year - long price - insurance loan in general. You could say that this bill is being done. The exceptions found in the bill are referred to as the counterweight actions discussed in the report that need to be taken up. The report did not say that there should be a prohibition for 40 years on credit. It was said: "If that step is taken, counter measures need to be taken. ' The counter measures are displayed many times, they appear in this bill in the form of annum, they also appear in the second bill by taking out their special property and taking out the weight of unsecured loans, and further notice was given in a report by the Committee, such as the need for a specific management of the housing market. For example, I think we've given the F.O.A. authority to set the thresholds for apartment purchases. There is another arrangement mentioned in the report. We have also been at the council with other basics that are in the spirit of the great section of the committee. Of course, in this large context, the warrant is still to shed the burden of unscrupulous loans. I review the work of the Committee to put this matter into context. It is time for the council to face this matter. Its basis is in the findings of the Committee, it is part of the council in conjunction with other measures; it is time for the council to handle it, handle it, handle it, and take the steps in which it is being suggested in order to move only the nature of the housing market in Iceland to the future. If we succeed, we will be able to get markets where more options are available to borrowers. It develops better with uncertain loans, but after all, we can do no more good in any way during the council than what may eventually lead to more stability and a lower level of growth. That is what ultimately matters the most. I'm also going to use this opportunity to let it be noted that even if we make the security loans more realistic, these changes combined that we recommend today, it is a loan form that has its pros and cons. This needs to be taken into account when making long - term plans. I'd also like to assume that the bill we talked about earlier today is about taking effect in the middle of the next year, and we can use the time up until then to have good cooperation with the financial institutions because, although it is not in any way possible to give some kind of pledge to the special savings, it must eventually become the conclusion that financial companies will admit that it will strengthen the borrower's ability, that he is laying aside and so on the basis of authority to take out and to be more fully dedicated to pay back payment. It is one thing that needs to be sure to follow through. So I direct the Commission to make up the conversation with the financial companies how important it is that in the process of payment, there is a real view of the fact that the sources for the removal of property savings are in the long term and after these changes have been made a major impact on the individual's ability to earn money when it comes to the unsuspicable loans. It opens the opening for the assessment directly to the payment burden. Of course, when it is used directly into the head chair, it has only light weighted the pay load over time, but it is of very little importance compared to the importance of this payment when you take the credit rate directly to each month's pay. As you can recall, during the year two, we are suggesting that all the special savings per year go directly to reduce the burden of unsaid loans, 90 percent can take off the payment load, and then head off for ten years. This is one of the elements I would direct to the Committee to follow along. At the same time, of course, since the options will take effect in the middle of the next year, it is time to deal with any challenge we may face in this regard. To say this, I suggest, more honored President, that the case goes on. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u92	President. I want to say the bottom line. Minister I think it's very good to direct it to credit companies that they explain to people how the 40 years work. However, I would like to ask the minister if he cannot agree with me that the reason for their being so popular or widely used in this country is just because it is the only loan most people can handle. It's because of their payment - even if people don't start to get involved in the apartment until maybe after 15 or 20 years, it's the only thing people can do. Don't Ministers agree with me on that? And that rent prices in this country are so high that even the financial burden of those loans may be lower than the rent price. Is it not natural, then, for people to borrow it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u93	A respectable president. Of course, this is a very large and important question. What people are saying is to postpone the full pay of monthly payments, of course, but they decide not to pay the full cost of growth, compensation, and payment on a head chair, but to later on, so that the pay will be equal. During a 40 - year loan, the capital is growing during the first 23◯24 years, but the load of payment becomes much higher in the latter part. Why is this? Is this just the interest level? I'm not quite ready to agree with that, as soon as I say, "I think interest is too high in Iceland." I think it should be our main struggle to get it down. I think we have to think about other things, too. What are we doing taxing people's income? Could it be that all we need to do is face up to the fact that we should take less of our income? Is Iceland's worth taxation supply perhaps completely high? Because it also affects local housing prices. [[The president calls.]] We need to examine the entire income and tax system, including the growth system, to present the answers to this question. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u94	A respectable president. I've told you so many times before in this chair that I believe that the cake needs to be re-cuted, that it needs to be changed to make changes in the country so that ordinary people can afford to buy apartments. I'd like to ask the Minister just to make sure I'm in the right place with all of this. On page 18. 11 The Senate document speaks of these leaveovers, that people might be able to borrow 40 years. It is noted that in the range of 30 to50% of credit recipients are falling under the age-old exception of the bill, 5◯10% due to income, and 51⁄21% for mortgages. So it seems to me that about 40,575 percent of those borrowing can borrow these 40 years. I want confirmation that I'm right about this and that there's not a double count in it, which says that there's not a payoff in the age range too.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u95	A respectable president. Yeah, it's the right thing to do. But as you can see from this program, it's very rough and it's very large or wide, it's from 1/3 or more to 2/3 or more. It is difficult to predict exactly how many there will be when you stand up that would land on a wall. But despite the fact that we were in the upper limits there, and this would have as little impact on the population as it can be expected according to this schedule, it would still be the biggest step ever taken to reduce the overall use of prices on the basis of equally credit loans, these 40 years of credit. I don't know that any other step has taken sooner than that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u96	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance. Here, a bill was being discussed to legalize the purchase of the first apartment. Then there are now some limitations on how to take securities loans, i.e. just as much money as 40 years old. I thought about one thing because I don't think it's clear enough in these bills. Now, young people who are trying to get into the real estate are primarily buying small apartments, which is now the nature of the situation, according to the way people start. I find it hard to read out some analysis of the impact on real estate prices of these two measures. I have to admit, I'm a little worried that this may lead to an increase in real estate prices, especially in my own apartment. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance to see if any of these diagnostics have been performed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u97	Madam President. The analysis of these issues was requested, and I'm sure that all of them will be carefully reviewed in the committee's work. However, in general, it is their assessment that it is more likely that housing will become some kind of offset, rather than that it will lead to higher prices. I also allow myself to point out that there have been a lot of discussion about how much higher interest was a few years ago, when nearly 20 billion were most studied each year. At the time, people were not worried that everything would explode to a higher prices in the housing market. This is in itself in comparison to this relatively modest operation, a relatively modest procedure compared to a special growth reform and a large growth reform system, which lived for only one, two years. The overall outcome of the evaluation, however, was that there would be only more demand for special property and lower rent demand. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u98	V.E.G. President. The Independence Party has been painting itself up as a particularly responsible political force in terms of government matters, which is a little funny in view of the collapse, but I'm glad it's the vision of the future. Then I'd like to warn you that a bill like this is approved or the two together without proper analysis, because we know all the effects on the real estate market by the campaign managers' campaign of 90 percent loans, and then real estate prices and competition on that market grew dramatically when money flowed out. Then came the correction. It increased real estate prices for those already in the market and made it even more difficult for new ones to get into the market. I encourage you to have a proper analysis and to better define what this renovation in a real estate market means, because already it's closer to wetness wall for young people to get into the market. [[The president calls.]] I'm worried that these actions will make it harder for those who are still outside of him to get in.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u99	Madam President. When I turned aside from the effects of the bill together, I was not at least discussing the first bill and its possible effects on the real estate market. If we look at this bill isolated, it is quite clear that there is no meaningful effect of the bill because this is a challenge to the use of the loans that have the lowest amount of remuneration. Rather, this bill could be said to be so only to control some effect of the other bill in the way they would lead to the conclusion that the senator is to mention, i.e. This is where we'd be using a bill that would control the effects to increase because it's the only option to limit the use of the loans available today in terms of payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u100	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of finance for a good speech. As he said, we are taking the biggest step in reducing the balance of insurance, from 1979. However, I have to ask a minister why these matters are not fully understood by banning 40 years of loan in this step, and I want to quote the counterrequisite actions quoted in Vilhjálmur's son Birgisson's speciality or growth reform system so that people could get through payment. I am concerned that despite this fine operation, the great and good work that has taken place, the most paid will bear the greatest responsibility and will pay the highest risk for their real estate and will take the greatest risk if economic losses occur in the future. I'd like to say, though, that it's working well, and it's very good to the people it reaches.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u101	Madam President. It is vital that we look at the effects of long - term exposure to houses of inflation. It is relatively easy to suggest that although many have seen the rise in capitalism due to inflation on loans, this is quite a factor, so the price of housing has exceeded the index price of consumption over a long period of time and is quite refreshing. Those who have been able to deliver, and they may have been able to do the same - paying loans, which have been able to make well since the end of the day. What I'd like to do here in another way is that, only by Vilhjálmur Birgisson loans, interest on unsecured loans will only decrease because banks will be forced to lower their interest so that they can deliver. I don't think things happen like this in the world of mankind. [[The president calls.]] It is not just for a line of pens that changes the interest policy and loans from someone else. It doesn't happen that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u102	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answer. All I want to do is go into the old loans that exist today, the 40-year-old credit card. I'd like to ask about it because we have a Senate case at the council that I and some others had. Parliaments involved in making changes in the calculation of inflation and insurance insurance so that we will use a uniform index price instead of an index price. Thus the index factor would be taken out of the index. Changing the calculations on these indexes would mean changing from the criteria, perhaps even contributing to the failure of people's homes or possessions in case of economic trauma. Has the minister studied these matters, and how does this change make him feel?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u103	Madam President. I simply think that money has something in the hands of those who are going to lend them and it will only explode somewhere else if they intend to use another combination of indexes in loan agreements. This is something like saying that we're going to measure this on Fahrenheit, but not on Celcius, it just changes the other numbers accordingly. It will just appear in the interest of an index that does not include all the factors it does today. According to this, I'd like to state that there is a perfectly clear evidence and that is part of a rationalization in this matter, that it is a great benefit to society all if we can produce changes like that. on the housing bar market and elsewhere that ensures that the Agency's growth policy has more to share, that the central transport process is, in effect, more efficient. It would certainly be that way if we had a higher proportion of disloyal loans. But that alone does not solve the problem. We need to improve our overall understanding of public financial and employment standards. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u104	A respectable president. It will not be said long ago that the person here is very familiar with financial and financial matters. I've read a little bit about insurance and other things from economists, and no two seem to say the same thing only in order to confuse a person. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance one. His party goes out to be liberal and to support and strengthen the individual's freedoms and that the State should be least involved in what the people of the land are doing. Clouds don't seem a bit strange, then he says he shouldn't let a loan like, for example. in this financial environment we live in? I realize, though, that it is neither very healthy nor good nor has it been. Is it not strange that the Independence Party is forbidding people to borrow a certain species?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u105	Madam President. Yes, I agree, we should do as little as possible by having an intervention, but in certain cases, there can be good evidence. For example, I say that in many places it is known that in many places it is most unfortunate to feel that a loan is offered in which no capital pay is paid, but we just keep the interest pay and then plan to reimburse at the end of the loan period on the head chair. In neighboring lands, this has been considered, and it seems that the market, whether in financial or housing markets, has been adversely affected, and this has been limited by humans. By narrowing the use of 40 - year - guarantees of credit money, we are saying that it can have a bad effect. They reduce the effectiveness of the Society's financial policies and encourage the loans that are really beyond the monthly cost of the loan. [[The president calls.]] This on its own can have negative effects.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u106	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I can't help but understand why they're offering these priceless loans because I've got one of those. I can say the highest. Secretary of finance that if I hadn't had access to this priceless loan, I would have lost my house. I would have lost it when the currency collapsed with a bang and a few years ago. By no means could I have paid off my unscrupulous loans. Normal workers or people in the lower steps of society today can't really do that. That's why I'm challenging the highest. The secretary of finance is more likely to use us to pick up other coins in Iceland because it seems quite clear after the hundred years of its history that it does not work here. I think the most extreme thing we would do as a nation would be to pick up another currency, no matter what we do, I don't exactly know. As a matter of fact, I've been talking very much about us entering the European Union. I think that would be a very positive step for us, especially in view of the fact that the largest business in the country uses euro, paying its people a non-secure crown that pays them so insured debt. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u107	A respectable president. The problem with picking up the currency market of another currency area or another state is that the currency's success is not connected to any status in the national economy at any given time. Thus we could create a risk that at the same time there would be a lot of contracture and even a recession would otherwise be rising in the coin area and the currency would grow stronger, which would be a double blow for the economy. Norwegians enjoy e.g. benefit from the fact that the currency is left behind in the oil trade. It would be a disaster for the Norwegian economy if the Norwegian were at the same time a currency to another currency area that was gaining strength at the time of the world's oil okra. The question of the recording of another coin is, To a large extent, whether one is willing to give away the possibility to adapt to the cycles in the economy, and the majority of countries have concluded that it is not worth it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u108	A respectable president. Before the last election, the advance team gave two great campaign campaigns. One was the correction so called, and the other was to cancel insurance. We all know what happened to the correction. They certainly say: We have kept it, the government has kept everything it promised. Yes, there was a debt correction of 80 billion, but a large part of it went to people who did not need any correction, who could have paid back their loans without due correction. It would have been hard, it would have been harder, it's perfectly clear, but it didn't need this. And that is what matters with the correction of debt and many things being done. Let's just take LINs. That's where everyone should get 65 of you. K. in a month, whether necessary or not. Now I really don't want anyone to think that I'm opposed to people getting a scholarship. I'm just putting this into context, what's being talked about here. The correction of debt: A lot of money we shared in was brought out to people who did not need it. It was the second campaign for the forward party. The other one was cut off insurance. Then this bill is put in here. This bill is not even a barbrell, a respectable president. This bill is not a bird or a fish. It appears that it is the primary objective of the bill to ban the 40 - year loans, but it becomes evident about their leaveovers, such as the highest. The minister said before, that it is not quite known how much it is, it may be from one third up to 2/3, somewhere in the range. What if it reaches 2/3? It's not a bird or a fish. I'd like to say that I don't think that 40 years' loan should be banned. Why do I feel that way? This is because these are the loans people, ordinary people, can handle. It can't handle other loans. While we're with the crown, interest is so high in this country that it's a natural joke to talk about taking an extremely irresponsible loan. 7% interest per year, 8% or whatever it is. The burden of payment is so great that ordinary people cannot cope with it. Hence, these 40 - year - olds were invented. This was a way in which people could manage a loan that rested on their housing. I don't think it's right to forbid them. However, I wholeheartedly agree with what was said in the highest language. Ministers to, of course, have credit institutions to explain to people how these loans work. I'm sure that's a problem. But I think it's true that most people who borrow such a thing are aware of it. There must be a big challenge here for us, to master the inflation. In his summary talk on Monday, the prime minister said that these matters should now be delivered and that these would be to protect people from inflation. Cut off the inflation fire. You can do this by picking up other coins. True, it is a challenge, but try to deal with it because it is what will be of great benefit to the future. As a respectable president knows, I was born yesterday, no more than the Minister who was in a sandbox between 72 and - I think he may have been only three, four more years in a sandbox, but then he was somewhere else. He says the inflation was 20% or more. You're absolutely right. In fact, when inflation was 20% or more, it was difficult for people during the first few years to establish housing. It'll always be difficult. Let's not do anything about it. But we need to find a system that makes it as easy as possible. But what happened about the years since 1970,1980? Then all these loans were eaten up by inflation, so it was certainly a generation that built on those years, and after having owned her home for perhaps five or ten years, it had become very easy because the loans had all eaten up. Very good. But what happened at a convention? It took a lot of savings in the country. That is why insurance was recorded, so that 100 - year - olds. The loans paid 100 bucks. Back, but not 50 bucks. or something like that. It's not your insurance policy. It's the inflation that's the guilty. We need to master it, and the biggest scapegoat for inflation in Iceland is a dollar. That's it. Hence, we need to find ways not to have to live forever with the currency and inflation, as they are called, so that they will not be. I'm going to request candidates to come to this platform and tell us if the bill that is presented with the special bill will answer their claim or promise that this is the price insurance policy. I want to make it clear that I believe that while we're with the Icelandic crown, it would be a mistake to cancel the insurance policy. As I said earlier, I also believe that about the 40 - year loan that seems to be forbidden, or trying to eliminate, or any word that is used over it, I don't think it's wise either. And then I repeat, why is that not wise? This is because these are the only loans ordinary people can take from money during the first few years. In fact, a respected president, these loans are often in the first few years lower than rent prices. Happily, there is now some greater support for people who choose to rent. That's good, because I think that we should set up a housing market in this country, where, as we know, those who don't want to tie up debt for the future can rent houses without risking them to be laid up and even needed, as we do know, to move ten times in ten years. That's why we need to get it up. It is also because we have to take into account that the special policy in housing here with the people is still being prepared for nothing at all. It may be even more convenient today when people are much more mobile. People may want to live abroad for a year and come and go. Then, for some reason, this special housing policy is somewhat old - fashioned. As the minister said, this should be discussed in the context of the bill mentioned before on the special kickback, but as noted in the discussion, those who have the better get more than the others will still be involved in the activities of this government. That's the mark of this government. That's what needs to be changed. They need to change how the national cake is divided. More is involved in paying. More needs to come to a common fund from those who use the resources in the country. This is a key to raising money with the people of the country without being overly concerned about the prices that professional drivers always try to do. But if they don't, the division of the national cake will change. The minister rightly says: We should first and last try to maintain stability. I agree with him in that, but it's also done by the industry taking a full part in what's being tried to do, that it's viable in this country for ordinary people. That is why we should focus our attention on the goal of each one of us living in this country, living in this country, paying rents in this country, if we want to have rent houses, that we can handle loans. That's why, at least While other dramatic changes have not occurred in the economy, it is absurd to think about banning the 40 - year loans. These issues will come to the Economic and Business Committee, where I have my place and it will be interesting to consider all the details. But I'm not gonna keep it any further, and I've finished speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u109	President. One of the big promises of the government in a government contract was to cancel insurance. Then a committee was set up, and this 40 - year loan could not be canceled. Now it's bill, but it's clear that this prohibition applies to a very few people. If it's supposed to be a proposal for reimbursement insurance, I think it's a little short. Actually, I'm not entirely convinced, I'm not quite sure, without wanting to be something very negative, whether this is the beginning of the price-settling loans, or whether it will actually further prolong in the process that insurance will be a part of the past. We're talking about this Icelandic loan. I must admit that I am not well responsible for who is responsible for what and is always calling out to know who is responsible for some wrongdoing in the Icelandic government. It is often very difficult to reach that point. But I have to ask: If these loans are so bad, because I really think it's a bad loan and a bad way to make a home, why on earth were they offered up that way? I don't understand it, and I often feel that when we discuss the matter of housing, it's both very confusing and too often so that the big context is not seen. I have often come up here talking about a ten - rent emergency. I don't see that the measures taken by the authorities recently take place in that crisis. On the other hand, I am very happy to see that there is a long - term housing policy and there is much good in the suggestions that were proposed and made as law from the highest level. Minister of housing and welfare. Whatever the case, people often do good things in the middle of things. But what is being suggested here and the bill that was discussed earlier in order to help young people buy houses, I don't think it helps the young people who need most support. This is not for the people who, in fact, have no place to go. They cannot rent that rent in the capital area, and it's not just about downtown, it's really out of shape with the public monthly wage, let alone the loans the students get to survive the month, and so on. I'm very afraid that when you go to this operation it doesn't get to those who need it, it's not even a patch that covers except the fracture of the wound, it's still hurting. It is still so that people who live under a crisis are placed in a loan environment that reminds me of chains that attach it to some direction of life and to realities that they will never get out of. I think it's so strange that we've let this go on for so long. I think it's so strange people are taking the offer. It was once a system called construction facilities. There people were offered loans on lower interest rates. It was also offered a so - called bridge loan that I remember, since very few people too could borrow money for the down payment. That system was removed and put on the market, just a nonsense competition, and I never completely understood how those who were then supposed to be the next generation of working-house rights -- there were a lot of flaws in that system, but it was designed around those I don't seem to be designed for today, and I think it's very sad. You're looking at the fact that the apartment loan fund can't reduce interest. I feel that the suggestions being offered here are that they have a very large number of people in Iceland placed in permanent uncertainty and insecurity and impossible circumstances. I can't support it. Yeah, it's fine, I can sure use a little time for the Iceland Bar to be taken off. But what should be done for all in need today? I see nothing there from the government. There's something else I don't understand. I couldn't find the statistics on how many people are taking these Iceland loans for fun, but not because they just can't do anything else and they don't fall under parole. But there is one thing that I find so strange, and people are being encouraged and encouraged to take disloyal loans. Good-bye. It's very good for those who can pay more of their monthly wages than those who have paid them credit. What I find strange about the indiscriminate loans is that growth varies. Now we're in real estate, a respectable president, there's a huge real estate booth in the capital area. She's very dangerous. You see a property that had a real estate estimate four years ago up to 18 million suddenly arrived at 30 million. This is a very dangerous situation, for those who have very little materially do not have a chance either to buy a home or to rent it. There is no way in which the government's proposals will respond, and there is no response to the fact that all bubbles will explode, always. That's a fact. It's a law. It's a natural law. The amount of interest you can raise is not exactly an issue, either when it comes to securities or inaccessible loans. I don't think it's an option. Were we not learning anything from the financial breakdown and the circumstances in which so many Icelanders were put in when their loan turned into something that no man could pay? I'm not sure that this case is going to make a huge difference, but I'd like to know if some senators have any idea who's responsible for these Icelanders now thought that they should be banned because they're so bad. Knowing this would be very helpful and interesting. Now we live in such government, no matter what kind of nonsense is set up as a law or a divulge, not every man is responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u110	V.E.G. President. I ran something into me earlier today when I said I was glad that this matter was on schedule. I thought there'd be a chance here to have a word-off with the forwarding party about his great campaign of decommissioning insurance. But what happens? Not one candidate has put himself on the rosary because of these two cases. We who were going to stay here and answer them will catch them empty. Hv. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, of course, responded. The secretary of finance, but we who have planned to lose out after discussing this big campaign at the Senate Hall, are taking hold of nothing. The candidates are absent in the debate on their biggest campaign case. I suggest that this matter be taken off the program and reexamined when the candidates trust them to be here in a house to discuss it with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u111	Mr. President. I'm coming up here to say the word with the rest. paritaprevir Ingibjörg, live Ingadóttir. This is surprising in view of the fact that this was a big announcement to be made during the weekend, that there would be an outing of insurance insurance after a weekend. As you might say, the mountain has taken fur fever and was born a small mouse, and in the form of this bill, it was about the limitations of certain credit - paying loans. One or two. A senator of the Convention, who has answered this discussion, described his frustration with this solution, that it had not been gone beyond that. That is a perfectly normal requirement. Senators will know if there is a problem. Because these are so disappointing, according to what we hear here at the conference hall and in the media, the senators support this matter. It's a big disappointment. I'm not surprised, though, after the big announcements made here about decommissioning insurance, not just for elections, but after the entire election season. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u112	President. In my speech earlier, I noted that I was surprised not to see and to hear in the candidates only, as we have seen, why. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir. It's a real wonder that the senators of the Agency aren't here explaining these matters to us, telling us that they're here to fulfill their campaign promise. Is it that way that others have gone wrong? paritaprevir Is this a disappointment for Lára Arnardóttir? Is it not true, then, that they come here and say they're not fulfilling this great campaign?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u113	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Inggadóttir has asked not for months now but for months of losing out on the wording of the forwardees of the advance party for disintegration of insurance that they have indeed promised and were delighted to be no matter what. Now that the matter finally arrives, in the form of a bill that has been called a fulfillment of the Senate campaign program, they are not seen. Then they're not even for interview. This is so disrespectful to the council that half of it would be enough. The best thing to do is to interrupt these meetings, call for the lead of the Action Party, and ask them to answer for them whether forbidding certain types of loans should be in their mind, in fact, spoken of as disintegration of insurance. Is there any candidate here willing to reason that it is decommissioned insurance that not only forbid one loan party, no, just a certain kind of loan to a certain type of person at a certain age? [[The president calls.]] This is a joke, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u114	President. It would have been nice to talk to you about it. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who recently appeared in the media, advertised this bill on how insurance will be decommissioned but why. In fact, a senator had not seen the bill, and I suppose that was. A senator is not particularly pleased with this. By the way, you would have assumed that the other person would. A senator would be here to discuss it. I find it very strange not to hear more of those who fought most for this party, members of the House of forward, both before and after the election. It would be very nice to hear whether or not to make some adjustments in this matter when it comes to a council committee. That's what I'd like to hear. Councilmen of the Parliament on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u115	V.E.G. President. Here, we're going to cover the bill to the 1st. where the highest will be Secretary of finance recommended the case. The bill is, like, all of them. Councilmen know, on the way to material processing and political treatment. There the senators, hopefully all of them, will do their part in providing the bill as well as possible. I'm sure it will. The senators will do their part there and will be fully involved in the discussion of the matter when it comes to 2nd. We just need to see how that work comes. I will not leave mine in that discussion at the time and at the same time answer to the highest. Secretary of finance on the case earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u116	A respectable president. This is a peculiar attitude. Here is a small mouse who has been born from one of the largest campaign halls of all time, which was canceled insurance that was not supposed to be a problem. Men could do this as if they were waving their hand, saying the candidates for an election. Now that there is an election again, and what is offered from this government is this little mouse that has been crossed. If so, those in attendance feel that they do not have to come to the 1st. Because it should be handled on the committee? The 1st. Set the lines on how the Committee's work will be won. This is where we talk about the big political lines on the subject. This is no way that senators will run away from answering questions about this big business of interest in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u117	V.E.G. President. I'm sorry. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir will not participate in the discussion. I don't know if she's saying anything, but I don't think this is going to happen. ... unless she had confidence that the government would make a greater part of the Independence Committee. Of course not. I was going to say, understated. Mr. President, why don't we just pack up, stop contingency and start preparing for elections? Here are two things that have happened today that give us every reason to do so. V.E.G. The Minister of Social Affairs no longer supports this government, since she is not counting on a government budget. Second, the candidates are so sorry that the Independence Party has been injected, and they do not intend to comply with the election of dissociative insurance. Let's just stop. We have nothing to wait for. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u118	It is true, most respectable president, to agree. paritaprevir The Sigríður of Ingaves Ingibjörg Ingadóttir that it is best to complete this council now and start preparing the elections in the country that should be October 29th, because one of the officials is not participating in Congress, suffers ill at the council chamber, does not take part in this great matter presented here, and suggests that they have no cause for the matter to be changed to the council. Who will change the matter to the council? The point is, there is no way to cancel the insurance policy in this country while we have an Icelandic crown. You just have to realize that. Hence, candidates cannot fulfill this promise that they gave so loudly before elections. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u119	Mr. President. Yes, it is surprising, this little discussion on this subject, but perhaps not when you look to the fore. I'd like to recall that in January 2014, after the first leaving of a staff on bail, I asked the highest. in his vision of decommissionment insurance and whether it was possible for him to eliminate the insurance policy during the season. There was no answer. He just said, "Yes, it's possible to cancel the insurance policy, " and that's all he expected. In fact, I asked the highest. In January 2014, the secretary of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party followed the same pattern. Then came just other answers. It seems to me that it is clear to me that the forward party has yielded to this policy in cooperation with the Independence Party. There remains a strange hybrid by which there is primarily limited to one loan class, i.e. The famous Icelandic loan, 40-year-old retailed loans, which say: Δ Unauthorized is providing long-term consumer loans to the age of 25 if it is insured and under equal payment. But then they're listed each other. It says that 40 - year - olds can be loaned to those under 35 years of age, and 35 - year - olds can be loaned on the day of borrowing to those aged 35 to 63, and 30 - year - olds are guaranteed as much as a loan loan on the day of borrowing. But then a certain level of income is also set, i.e. considered if the age conditions are not met. It's 500 fars. K. the total income of a couple's income per month, i.e. The next year's tax-related income is 3.5 billion. K. or less money for an individual or 6 billion. K. Or less money if there are more than one borrower. These are very low income limits set on loans over 44 years of age, very low income limits, and below the minimum level of the labor movement that has been fighting for, they go up to 300 you. K. per month. At the same time, as a thought - provoking subject, 85% of new loans during the first six months of the year are insurmountable. Of the 39.3 billion borrowed during the first six months of the year, 33.3 billion are in a secure form. Despite the question of price insurance, I think most people would agree that the consequences of insurance are more than anything else, namely. The insurance policy is a kind of an instrument in the economic situation. We feel the inflation of a loan, but in view of it, and probably because of the fact that inflation has been low in recent years, we see this choice of Icelanders, they are now more likely to choose inflatable loans and trust in it. [[Up front.]] Of course, this is not a universal evolution. This is what it's all about this year. In the fall of 2011, when unconvinced loans were offered, they were quite popular. As far as I can remember, there was a considerable increase in loans that went unsurpassed loans until 2013, but then the stocks of responsable loans have increased and are now, as I say, 85% new loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u120	Why do you think it's a respectable senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u121	The Senator will just have to listen to my quiet talk and have a conversation with me within the financial committee on this subject. [[Take it in reverse.]] Mr. President. This shows that borrowers choose abetted loan. Of course, it is worth considering that instead of developing a financial program that aims to defuse the insurance policy as said to be the case, the government presents a matter of limiting the choice of borrowers. Now I am absolutely satisfied that information is, as this has also been discussed, clear and accessible, and lenders are made aware of the risks involved in securable loans and unsecures. But the fact is, and I'm not saying any new facts, it's been made clear in their case. The members of the council here have spoken that income - stricken people who want to have their own housing have the main means of making a 40 - year journey equal in payment because the load has been less and less, and is not controlled by a changing interest level at any given time. This, of course, is the reason for these loans. They don't come out of nothing. There has been a highly inefficient tenet, a lease that is not really acceptable on any foundation here in the capital area, a rent - rent market where people live in great insecurity. We see more and more cases of middle - aged people who live in rented homes than who have to move into their children during the summer season while the apartment is rented to tourists. I have a few examples. Yet, these people are paying high rent, perhaps half of the provisional items that are not uncommon for rent prices in the capital area. Of course, it is only natural that for those who do not have money and who do not have a high income to choose to take a secure loan of 40 years and spend very long paying up their housing, while at the same time getting a measure of security, both when it comes to farming and on the other hand, paying their expenses. I feel that this is a completely inadequate operation to put a cross in the box of ◯blocation insurance, which is, obviously, what this bill is supposed to be, this bill is to do anyway. Councilmen and the highest. Government strategists can say: Well, we have now only reduced the value of money - assured loans. We're taking the first step toward decommissioning insurance. But what really is being done? There's no plan, at least not what we've been given to see. No plan was introduced to Harpa on Monday. It's only suggested limitations, ratings, on price-separated loans to 40 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u122	I'm sure you'll pay your dues.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u123	Betrayal of a 40-year credit loan. It's just so we can say, "We did something." And that certainly is not a prerequisite for legislation at a council when there is a problem. Councilmen have the numbers in front of them and see what they look like, 85% of the new loans are inflatable. There should not be a prerequisite for legalization to say: something was done. If the price insurance is to be cut off, the whole area must be overlooked and have a comprehensive schedule to eliminate it. You can't just watch one loan party, you need to look at the money that's on the other side, which is also credible. In the land, interest levels need to be watched and how they see them develop. A complete vision of the future is needed. This was spoken both before the 2013 election and for as long as January 2014 as a relatively simple matter. I quote a famous article. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougon, who I remember, promised Aphediary and Correction, a simple matter. Hv. The senators who are present in the hall correct me if I'm wrong, because this is from memory. I find it hard to see that in order to say that I've done something, this is the right way to do it. It has nothing to do with how we feel about the insurance. But I find it hard to see that the right way is to place limits on a certain loan class, which is the loan group that earners have been able to use to build and contribute now, because there is much good in the law of housing that we did in a good way in the spring council and aim to build an active tenant for them take time. It will take time to implement those laws. V.E.G. The social and housing minister sat by earlier on the payment of a national financial programme. Perhaps because the establishments of building a rented house that is expected for the future on the part of the government are not at all sufficient to meet the need, e.g. in the capital area for building a rented house. Maybe that's one of the reasons why it's the highest. The minister sat by in this vote. It will take time to build a rented house as a real choice. While it's not done, while we're looking at people expecting rents to go up even over the night, without any warning, while people who call me describe how they're told renting on the day of the Christmas Eve and not finding any landlords in place, while the situation is in that way in a rented market, and we see increasing real estate prices in the capital area, insufficient supply and young people we were talking about the past which is very difficult to break into this market, I don't quite see this road serving any real purpose other than I mentioned at my beginning, able to put Xbox. To say, "We did something. " I'm not surprised. The senators of the forward party are not particularly at peace. This, of course, is far from what they have spoken. And I'm not sure when I look at the bill we're about to talk about at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee that it is necessary to be large - well, I just don't know what the situation should be made up of, considering that it is quite obvious to those who watch that there is no unity among the parties in the direction of this matter. It actually appeared as early as January 2014, as I did as a talker at the beginning of my talk, when I asked the presidents of both classes about their stand on bail. I wondered, " Is it not the right thing to look at this whole matter and to see how this limitation could affect people, especially those who suffer from low income? ' It is only hoped that I will be suspicious when this government presents a real - estate situation when we look at how the correction is adjusted, for example. It is between income groups, how the special trade route is different from the income groups. How do these issues come about by different income groups? I think it's clear that this is still another way to squeeze the money - rich people into a housing market, a market that is very heavy today, very difficult, and we should be discussing the emergency problems that will not be immediately solved despite the fine housing that I mentioned earlier. It'll take more than that. I don't really know exactly where this case is headed. I can't figure out what changes are going on. Councilmen hope to be made. And I don't see that this is really anything but to be able to say, "Well, there was a step towards destabilizing insurance. This is such a bag, to be able to say it. The result, however, is to be considered for those groups who will come out of the park on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u124	A respectable president. The issues discussed here, the bill to correct the change in growth and insurance laws, with subsequent changes, are very short, one branch apart from taking effect. I must express my opinion here and now at the beginning of my speech that I have some doubts about this contribution to the loan market. In fact, this bill has something to do with another bill that was discussed earlier today, and I did not discuss it. First thing I'd like to say is, in both primes there's some sort of conceptual genius. I don't know any loans you don't deserve. Icelandic loan markets offer loans with variable interest rates that change according to the index value of consumer prices and that the so-called real interest may change something based on reference to the potential interest in the stock market. There are also other loans that change interest based on the Bank on Control. Federal interest is always determined from inflation. It's very simple. On the one hand, the so-called price-separated growth, the insurance insurance policy of objective measurements, and the other is insurance insurance based on the guess and expectations of the Pages Bank. Which do you want to guess or test? Apparently, these bills are the product of some experts' work. I have to say that I was very disappointed. I'm not going to hide that I'm an expert on interest issues or financial matters. But I've been doing this for over 40 years, actually 43 years if I count all of it, by job, by study, by teaching, and by writing. A lot of this would've gotten a drop score from me as a teacher, but here I'm not a teacher. I have had to sit under various tasteless remarks, such as the mentally ill person. Prime Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson called me a watchdog insurance policy. I'm not one of the creations of any watchdog. On the other hand, I believe that interest should be calculated by some sense. In this case, if you are less than 35 years old, you will suddenly start to ban loans longer than 25 years of age. Then there are those who are 35 constitute 39, yes, they're five years away. [[Up front.]] They can take it to 35 years of age. Those between 40 and 30 years of age I'm 64 myself, and it's not my duty to take a loan in agreement with my bank. I don't understand this violation of human rights. It'll get you out of here. Congress doesn't have anything to do with the way I do my bank. If there's a deal between me and my bank on how I take a loan, it's none of my business. All I have to do is return my bank, and that's my personal business and the bank. Then I'm going to say that I have about the same type of person I'm looking at and I'm going to find that red-haired men, dark-haired women, and those who have freckles on my arms are probably all neglecters. This statement is as powerful and well-created as this bill. I simply say that the growth and insurance laws are relatively simple, and they do their part very well. Then comes a series of mathematical laws, such as busyness, which make loans relatively easy - to - payable for those who want to rent relatively stable. It's a rent. It speaks of property, but there is no possession because you buy property, it is property, it becomes debt, and it begins slowly, and then walks along slowly and bites. While I have observed the discussion in this matter, no one has asked the basic question: What does the budget cost? I have compared loans taken in 2010, 2011, and 2012, and I have produced them, so - called insured loans, and I have found out the cost of these loans. It may be that the informed borrower borrowed from my data, i.e. taking the loans that are less expensive on the one scale and are correct, as measured by the cost of borrowing, i.e. What is the fruitage of these loans? Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, traced it earlier, and I asked her from the hall if she knew why these loans were taken. She couldn't answer, but I'm going to inform her here and now that's because the loans are cheaper. We've got a budget to pay for. [[I wasn't...]] Under normal circumstances, real - life growth, which is the time factor, is the sacrifice that the borrower needs and the sacrifice that the borrower is prepared to pay for. Other is e.g. because of the loss of prices so that the borrower gets back what he lent. It may be that there's quite a bit of realism here. I have, for example. asked why the interest of the pension bar is about 3.6% of real interest, but interest from bank loans 3.9%. Could it be because here in this hall was an approved bank tax? The consumers pay that tax. I'm gonna get to a single word that's never properly defined here, the Iceland Bar. Iceland loans are 40 years' credit. I have not been around the world asking how credit is given and how long it may take for this loan, 40 years' credit loan, to be quite close to a kind of loan that goes on in many parts of the world, not just in the Western world, but in other places where interest is prohibited. This is very close to what's called Islamic Banking, so I'll let myself get into English, with the permission of a respectable president. I've been asking about the same thing about these loans. If any loan is to be used here to communicate the Federal Department of Money Policyism, then the World Bank's pay policy will never work on anything but the shorter end of the growth problem. The latter part can never be affected, as 40 years of pay loans are very stable and will otherwise not cause economic swings, as long as borrowers can take small fluctuations, as they expect to be expected in credit evaluations. You will probably want to get the bill for the support of your first apartment, and you can get it from so - called insurance loans in the same way by allowing people to pay extra loans. However, according to consumer loan laws, this is not possible. I'm allowed to pay 1 million, I'm told, on bank loans, the pensions are much more liberal, and I guess that's where the problem is. Here people are being driven on an unfortunate loan, using a tax - stimulus. Of course, all of us have reasonable ways to help people buy their first apartment. However, it is painful to say this right now, and no one has talked about borrowing rather than borrowing, that there is probably a total of 2,500◯3,000 apartments in the capital area. You can turn to demand and loans, raise loans, increase the demand for apartments, but if the supply doesn't grow, there's just one thing that has happened since the turn of the century, an apartment price has increased by about 60% above the value of consumers. I wonder if it's because property is not open to it. You can bring in a pile of bills and laws, but during the move of new apartments, on the edge of which I call, no, I haven't really arrived, this offer is to respond to the demand for transport of people by changing farming practices. When I calculated a few years ago how the number of people in the number of apartments developed, there was a decrease in the number of new apartments that resulted in more needs. This bill doesn't solve the problem. As I told you before, I don't like the human rights limit I'm going to face here and a lot of others. I think it's an Iceland record on the law -- actually, there were no interest laws on interest and insurance, except the old loan laws. But, uh, age management on borrowing, wait a minute, can't I make a deal with my bank? Money is based on a single word, trust. If there is no trust, such legislation will not make it better. This case will be expected to be referred to the Economic and Business Committee, and there I will ask a number of questions and will point out a few things that you can better discuss. I'm going to finish my case at this time, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u125	Mr. President. I am tempted to speak up only about this matter. To be honest, I was expecting a lot of discussion and a long talk list, and I was surprised when I asked for the word "I was at the end of it. " Of course, it's because it's so you might end up so indirectly, it can be called kind of the world's most entirely; it's the world's largest, i.e. The enormous issue of the insurance policy and the much - spoken work of the Kingdom - preaching and insurance policy has become a very big thing here, which is virtually nothing. Of course, I expected it especially. The senators of the forward party, the heads of the House of forwarders, the promises, remember to come here and represent them. Where is it, Mr. President? paritaprevir Will Davíð Gunnlaugsson and former prime minister sail? As a promise to the nation that if they were to make power in Iceland, they would eliminate insurance right away. Then the candidates would ride through the districts and say the same thing. I'm sure there's some of us in here who will remember this well in the campaign for the 2013 General election. Sad to say, not only did people put faith in that promise but they also made a deep impression on the fact that insurance would just disappear, and all insurance loans will become disloyal, and everyone will live happily from it, as the fairy tales say. I felt it over and over again on the topic of conversation, at work, or in common meetings, that the candidates chose to talk about this huge promise that people would die unsatisfied and that they would understand that all insurance would just be wiped out and that they would no longer be there. What a sense of irresponsibility, such people's cash. What remains? This does not interfere with insurance in any way with past times, even in the bill it is specifically stated that these limits do not interfere with the same price - guarantee loan from others. And into the future, there is only one narrow group of people who are not allowed to borrow those loans. Young people, rich people, and, of course, those who are most likely to look for such loans because they can better handle the money they earn from them during the first few years, they are open to them by means of leave. It is also of interest, Mr. President, that two members of the board have joined today's discussion. The last speaker, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, and why. paritaprevir Of course, Lára Arnardóttir answers only. Both of these directors expressed dissatisfaction, disappointment, or dissatisfaction. I don't intend to interpret their words otherwise, but that's how I understood their experiences. Wait, then, is it so that no one is happy about it? Nobody. Not the candidates who promised to take out insurance and see, of course, this goes into the sand, for it will never be sold as an asset in that campaign. Never, I'm sorry. It's not gonna work. It sounds like the Independence Party or at least some of them don't particularly like it either. To tell you the truth, even if you're not supposed to interpret such a fad and a human career and put it into something meaningful, I didn't think anyone was special at the top. Financial and economic ministers, when they gave him the order. I think he spoke to some of the more conviction and passion than this. (b) What will be considered in the next article? (b) What will be considered in the next article? Hadin' said this, a speaker would say that to avoid any misunderstanding, I am a special fan of insurance and have long spoken about it, taking a stand on these matters, that reducing the amount of insurance in our economy is a very important matter. But I've always tried to talk about it out of responsibility. I've never given anyone the impression that some kind of magic could disappear, that's not possible, that's not possible. Price insurance is widespread in our economy on both sides. Pension bonds are insured. We've had a lot of insurance and commitments and property in this country since the '70s when men began to be half-deficate and then reliant loans, e.g. School loans, apartment loans, and so when the law on insurance, the famous Olafs Act, were put in 1979 and taught by the then existing prime minister, Ólafur Jóhannesson, for which I have always enjoyed the fact that candidates should be talking about any other category more than cutting off the insurance because the author's work at one of the former premates of that party. It was often spoken of for fun or for real. In part, I am told that the Olafs Act was written directly at the kitchen table at the then prime minister. But why did they put them? Because they had lived under extreme inflation and their life savings, a race was about to borrow because it was good, it was dwindling, and they paid only a fraction of their worth. It's not good either. They were trying to deal with these ghosts, this instability, by putting into them the possibility that commitments could be guaranteed so as to keep their worth. But this gradually led to a tremendous amount of insurance in our economy. Why is that undesirable? My reasoning is, first of all, economic. It is quite true here, especially when you have a loan like this, so-called credit loans you call it or whatever it is now, they get the compensation, they're equal over the head chair, and the loan is thus built up that the inflation of the loans that happen only to the whole of the loans left over, etc., of course, the effects of such. Second, a variety of economy devices may not work with the same bite as before. It can be debated about how effective they would be even if the loans were to be disloyal, especially if they reached in the long run, e.g. Unconvinced loans with fixed interest during the first five years would be no imperfect change, even though the late bat would increase its direction against them. However, growth is likely to be somewhat higher, since it includes some form of inflation or risk factors. Third, of course, I'm opposed to my insurance policy and I don't think it's bad because our results of living together with it are simply too high. Real interest in securities is also too high, and money is too expensive, too much. There were many people who felt that insurance was there when insurance came in their time, and it was commonly said that the interest in securities would not have to be unless about 1%, the money was guaranteed in the insurance policy, and there was plenty to produce, 1% or 1.5%. But it's just not been the case, I'm afraid. That the government loan is like... Of course, the duty to borrow only at 4.3% of the interest, something like that, is an amazing reflection of the fact that it is all, too expensive, and so much too high in us. This is not to say that losing the value of money or offering it would automatically reduce the financial cost in Iceland, unfortunately not. It's just that way, unfortunately. Its roots are deeper and natural to some extent involved in our economic problems and mistakes, instability, fear of the instability, and somehow the expectations that always hang over that people must ensure themselves thoroughly with either very high names or right to have them vary and raise them, or that they have very high levels of insure growth. Of course, there is also the present and much, much more. The result of all of this is that our big issue in this matter is how expensive it is and how much it takes. Betrayal insurance is unfair in that subject, since it actually overtrusts the money. There is a lot of point in what many have said about securing a loan, and then making it with fairly large interest, there is a borrower with belts and bracelets, so devoted in the back and before. Bankers, though others who lend security loans, especially if they maintain regular growth over a period of years, take some small risk with the borrower, which, of course, they do not do in this case. Could this be done and the extent of the insurance policy and the degree of other measures be taken? Yes, there are a number of factors involved. Also, there is a changed product available, e.g. roofed, insured loans. Good reports on that. If you're afraid of taking in your insurance loans, including those that you don't know. Because the inflation shot can come and the head seat jumps up, it doesn't have a serious impact on the payment burden, it can be very damaging to people's property status, as we know... [[What does it matter?]] Well, there's nothing that's ever been so great about a man's ability to mortgage his 80 percent, and then he's mutate over 100% of the value of his property, and he's stuck in it. Of course, handling the load of payment is important. The loans could also be made so that people could buy insurance with moderate interest stress that they never had more elevations than, for example, in the case of moderate interest. A background growth of the Federal Bank or higher than that of the Pentateuch or its upper border inflation criteria. This would likely have to be paid with some interest, but such assurances against bringing in some unseen inflation might be worth it, for example. for young people who would be taking such a loan in the long run. I'm a little bit surprised that in this low credit rate there is no discussion of any possible alternative or any of such things or that it's just a much more radical operation to try to bring the loans more on uncertain loans, except for this little impulse, which is in the second bill that people can use a portion of the tax-employed specials to pay over a period of loans if they're unconvinced, i.e. The payments from the loans, too. It's kind of light on your stomach. It's quite a strange conclusion, Mr. President. Now that the season has come to an end, the board is coming up, and that's why it's probably planned here to be called so that something is a little bit trying to do and not so much later, we're in the last days of election Congress. So this is the whole harvest. Hv. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason mentioned something else I only want at the end of the day closer. That our problem is, in particular, that there has been a greater and greater shortage, simply lack of housing, especially in the capital area, but, in fact, more local areas. The enduring conditions of that kind have a very negative effect. It forces the value of real estate rapidly, making it clear that in many places it is far up to the cost of stock prices and rent rising. Of course, the situation in housing is a terrible one. Thousands of apartments are needed to restore normal balance. It's just a reality. This here doesn't solve any of the problems, of course not. The government is facing this, and it is a fact that it has failed during this terms that solve the problem. Yes, we have our last law on general apartments, and there is a promise to support the building of tenants, but no such apartment has been built and probably will not be started until the following year, it is one and a half or two years that the first man may move into an apartment that may in some way be said to be a result of that government. It's going to be a long way into the next terms. This is the situation. For this reason, it is, of course, very sad when we review the stage and see the results of the government's work on the basis of the terms of the budget. It is quite true, and this government is having some pity in that it is not the first person to have a serious problem with getting sense and some stability in Iceland's housing business. I've said it before, Mr. President, and I can repeat it, except for a general economy that is naturally famous to see how Icelanders have messed up through decades, I think it's quite clear that the silver prize winner is in Iceland's mess, that's the address. For many years, we have been extremely divided, to the point that decades have been said, in building a successful housing policy that offered people a measure of security and a measure of well - being.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u126	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's talk and the discussion on the insurance policy. Hv. The senator was well aware of how bringing the insurance back at the time was an economic procedure to deal with instability and, in the same way, how the insurance has gradually gained more and more important than now we have to take steps to reduce the importance of insurance. A panel of experts reporting in November 2013 has been prepared to reduce the value of insurance, first by order of a team of experts. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator will agree with the methods presented in the results of the expert group. Hv. In fact, a senator introduced other possible routes, but I'm going here so that I direct the question to him if he agrees with the ways in which he is traced from the report by the expert team, which includes the group. Step in with the bill. And what other means does he consider to be either more beneficial or to be considered concomitantly with what was suggested in this report?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u127	Mr. President. Yes, that's interesting. A senator reviews that a government committee delivered results as early as November 2013. I thought some of this came in 2014 too, but the same thing is now August 2016, and it's finally showing up. If I recall correctly, it's just the least of the committees there suggested as one of the steps. This is such a memorial that half would be enough. Do I agree with the findings of the Committee? I didn't agree with it, but it didn't surprise me, because I never believed that the insides were for this kind of person's conversation that it could just snap a finger and cancel the insurance policy. I have never allowed myself to speak out of such irresponsibility. Although I was not surprised that much of the committee came to the conclusion that such a thing was unrealistic, I suggested some step in trying to minimize some measure of insurance. As a result, I was not surprised at the conclusion. I would've liked to see an analysis of other options. I would have liked to have seen all available possibilities, so I would have excluded the possibilities in this situation that could not be manageable or capable. I mentioned, for example. The idea of roofed loans that would well have been considered just one of the options for people. If you want to make a big effort to reduce the extent of your insurance policy, I agree that it must be done by offering very favorable conditions for the change in insurance loans. This will not happen unless there is some way that humans can offer favorable conditions in those areas. Of course, the same is true of new loans. It must then be possible to show that it is strictly practical and safe to take unsecured loans and that the weight of payment on the front is not beyond control. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, it's just empty talking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. To begin with, the panel of experts pointed to the time when they would need to work on various counter measures and complete a number of tasks before the first step in decommissionment of insurance. That work has been done since then, including with agreed primary housing and general apartments and managed to complete the work that had to be done before the first steps are taken. As explained here by the bill, one of the first steps is to guarantee the long - term remuneration of equal payment loans to over 25 years is to be removed by means of certain counter measures. This bill is one part of it. Of course, it is important that the economic and business committee reviews the ways presented here. Therefore, I would like to direct the question to the senator whether he believes that the groups listed there, the age groups, are the limitations that matter, or whether there are boundaries, the exceptions there are, whether the exceptions may be larger or smaller, whether there are unnecessary exceptions, so that the goals could be reached. Then I wanted to hear the senator's attitude on a minimum-time guarantee loan that may be the next step in decommissioning insurance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-18-135.u129	Mr. President. I want to thank you first. A senator for his answers. How happy we are that we only communicate with those in attendance! It says that no candidate seems to intend to give a talk in this discussion that is natural news, and it is surprising that some of them did so closer than others. Yes, the team of experts concluded that there was a need for preparation and counter measures. This was not surprising. It would seem that the public would be quite afraid to take a loan as secure as it has been determined how terrible it is, but the reality is that borrowers of their last losses have actually answered with their feet. We simply see that from 2/3 to less than 4/5 of the new mortgage payments, it is insured. People choose to take them rather than disloyal loans with variable interest. The fact that these loans are more handleable in the first few years is surely a major factor in the fact that they are more capable of getting through payment. Of course, this is also a reflection of the reason why people say the general rule should be so borrowing until 25 years of age, but it can still take longer loans. Yet, the fact that we were about to push a considerable number of people out of the dream of buying an apartment in the absence of those enforcings is recognized. I don't really think that they're the right ones. All of this is a hideous mountain back road, named that these loans are banned for longer than 25 years, and then there are a large amount of reserves for income and age. I agree that extending the minimum duration of prices is a good option. [[The president calls.]] I remember when it was extended to five years ago when people planned to cancel insurance insurance after the national stability. It never did, but it may be, and in many respects, it is completely absurd to guarantee a loan to a relatively few years.
