ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u1	Borist has received a letter from Prosecutor Pirata of Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, why. Tenth. Smoke. So, can't do any Senate work in the near future. So it is requested that Sigurbjörg Erla Egilsdóttir, who is the 1st lipman of Pirata in the district. At the request of the president, the national government has assembled and issued a vote for Sigurbjörg Erla's Egilsdóttir. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been arranged to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u2	Mr. President. As mentioned in the case of the highest. The President's commission and surveillance committee has gathered here to review the Sigurbjörg letter of Erla Egilsdóttir from the national government. In agreement with the Commission's decision not to make comments to the ballot letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u3	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved. Sigurbjörg Erla Egilsdóttir has not previously taken up residence at the General Assembly, so the commitment to the Constitution is to sign.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u4	Sigurbjörg Erla Egilsdóttir has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers, Fisheries and Agriculture Ministers and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to direct a few questions to the highest level. Secretary of finance for recently created livestock contracts. First, it is natural to remind you that it is interesting to see how healthy the government's insurance policy is, since no guarantees of insurance have been shown in any contract that the government makes than in what is available here. It has been decided, with this contract, on huge expenses, nearly 200 billion dollars, or equivalent to the first Icesave deal, that the Minister of this government now criticized many who - they criticized a lack of agreement in his leading and careful management with the parties. A contract has been made here with no consultation with a Minister's Committee, and it was intended to deal with the livestock that was not even called together, without a consultation with the Allied European Union. V.E.G. Ministers have indicated that this contract is justified by economic management that is expected in the contract. The problem is that expenses are safe in this contract, but the economy is a forest bird and does not occur until first, after the contract's revision and after a vote for farmers. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister how he thinks it is possible to justify this agreement, his conduct and his tactics. How does it seem reasonable for him to conclude a contract of this kind, on expenses that are so substantial, without consulting with the council, without calling the representative of the employee and personnel in the article of the table; making him a soleist between the governments and the secret members of the national states within the National Association? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u7	Mr. President. I think that this question, on the material point of the agreement, would have been better handled as a minister, but I shall not complain about standing here and discussing the matter. Of course, first with the council, the senator knows that these contracts are made in advance of the approval of the Generals, and they will be placed here and discussed at the General Assembly. With regard to the management mentioned, I don't think it's a bit of a funny talk. Not many years ago, the Guðni of Ágústsson, a farmer of agriculture, stood here and had to account for such a great reduction in farmers in the Gulf that led to the buying out of Reykjavík and the sale of the land. I remember sitting here at a council hall when he said that the Icelandic cows did not compete to sleep out on Sundays. Farmers sold their land, settled their farms, and left another place. Thus, during the past 20 years, the number of people who live has decreased by hundreds of years. The evidence indicates that they will continue to decrease. As we look at them on the other hand and then reflect on the material content of the agreements with the European Union on customs that will be laid before the council, we see that what is happening is a continuation of the development that will be useful to consumers and will also use farmers who will become larger, more potent units that can produce food more effectively, healthy food, but at the same time, we are opening Iceland for import of certain parts of food. Then there's a lot of food coming in here free of duty. This whole context must be kept in mind when discussing agrienvironmental issues and it is certainly a disgrace for humans to compare this with the Icesave Convention. [[The president calls.]] I don't want to take up a discussion that's so fucking stupid like comparing this deal with the first Icesave deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u8	A respectable president. The minister has to face the fact that the cost of this contract is as high as that of the first Icesave deal. It may well be uncomfortable for him, but that is the fact. The monopoly of the Galacasse is firmly established. Is this excusable and logical based on independence policy? Import protection is increasing. It's wrong to be the highest. Minister's right here. The clock is being screwed back to 1995 in the amplitudes. Admittedly, some of the peasants, and at the very beginning of interest, were set up at the time of the first dissident call of the Communicator, dropping men. The contract now includes stationary condition. The Land Bank describes it as freezing. The German Union says: "A wonderful opportunity lost. [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. Secretary of finance to see the genius of this new Icesave deal?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u9	Mr. President. The fun part about the Icesaves is what it's like. A senator endorsed the contract he says was so wildly stupid, but the person standing here voted against that agreement. In fact, I suggested that the case go to the people, but what? A senator voted against it. He voted against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u10	And who of us has learned from the past?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u11	- Of course, it's quite possible to have a contract like the one that is being negotiated here - a direct result of another comparable agreement made in the course of the day. A senator sat in a government, a contract that was basically comparable to that, comparable to the agreements in terms of government - about putting hundreds of billions of currency for nothing, for nothing, without bringing any benefits, just to buy their freedom, while men said we had to join the European Union and take up the euro to free the oceans. It's amazing that you can't take that discussion. [[The president calls.]] Let's have a special discussion about the Icesave treaties and the agricultural business, I would like to participate in that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u12	Mr. President. I had a very good place to say. Last September, the prime minister of what is now known as Icelandic enthusiasts. I asked them the highest. Minister particularly in that case, for he picked it up on his arms, so to speak, when the Supreme Court proposed. A minister for the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the state leaked into the press on April 1 of last year, where it was reported that the new House of England would become part of an operation to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the sovereignty. We were presented with a proposal for the study of the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. Then we received reports that she had never been replaced by the Party of Independence. Other factors, in fact, were also in the proposal, such as a proposal for a new building at the General Assembly and a proposal for construction on the Þingles. I asked the highest. Last September, a minister accepted that the proposal had disappeared into the black - rights of the Independence Party. V.E.G. A minister had well said that we would join him in carrying out the case. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What has happened since September? What we've seen is financiers for the International Building, but there's no room for financial instruction on the house of the United States. I don't need anything less. Councilmen say that this was intended for research and teaching in Iceland, but also for a demonstration of our manuscripts, one of the world's greatest cultural powers of UNESCO. But we still only have the hole. I hope it's not just because it so happens that Melin's hole is that nothing has happened in the case, because it all belongs to us. They all belong to them. There is shame that we do not know where the situation is heading. Now I'd like to ask the highest. A minister who responded well to my request that we find some solution to the matter in September: How does work with the situation? [[The president calls.]] Will we be able to see some suggestions for this council that will raise our hope that the cultural and study of Icelandic languages, literature, and studies will be done in a new house?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u13	A respectable president. Preparatory work is now being carried out in accordance with the new law on it and, in fact, also working on a long-term economic and financial agenda. We, ministers of the government, and especially of the Ministers' Committee, have discussed terms and the various issues that have been considered and considered. Of course, we all agree on that, the Ministers and hopefully members of Congress too, that circumstances have greatly improved in this country during the last loss and years of economics. As a result, it may be that there is a prerequisite for attacking things that were not practical for so long ago. In turn, people don't want to press the spell. You don't want the state to be on great business at the same time as much investment is in the private sector and even the lack of industrial workers. That doesn't change, though, because I've heard it on my councils and on my team of colleagues, as well. A senator specifically asked that there is a positive attitude toward this project and will no doubt continue to view it as a positive view of the work ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u14	Mr. President. I'm not gonna use my minute here in a general economic discussion. We know exactly which way the current world's highest level is. Governments chose and chose to make taxes more important than building wood and continuing the building work that was beginning at the end of the last terms. I'm not going to talk about it. I don't think it's enough, Mr. President, to get those answers to the highest. Ministers of the government have a positive view. Of course it's positive as far as it goes, but I imagine it to the highest. The prime minister must be able to give us clear answers on, for example, whether or not to give the High School of Iceland, which is prepared with financial resources to use it so that the next summer will have to be started. It is easy to give such authority if it is a political desire to be properly handled by the Icelandic science and our manuscripts, our greatest culture. This case has made us ashamed. Icelandic education is a disgrace to us, and I believe only to the highest degree. After making such a suggestion, the prime minister will still apply, even though that proposal has disappeared, for it can be started this year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u15	A respectable president. First, a mere thought of it as a cause for concern. A senator spoke at the beginning, but he said he was not going to talk, i.e. Government policy. It was not that the total number of tax increases in the last government would have yielded greater wealth and income, as expected. On the contrary, when an opportunity was made to regain reanimation after a dramatic downturn, they lost all their strength. Today, economic policies, including tax issues with positive motivations, have greatly increased the income of the state's funds. This gives us greater opportunities to carry out our various assignments. For that particular assignment. A senator asks about them I, as I could before, am optimistic about their progress. Of course, this will be taken into account in the context of other activities and financial matters in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u16	Hanging in the team?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u17	A respectable president. Does prime minister believe that over a hundred billion banks last year are normal? Has his government taken some measures to protect people and businesses from excessive interest and payment in the banking system? Or do the government intends to take some measures to protect people and businesses from excessive interest and payment in the banking system? I'm asking, a respectable president, because it's time for us to see that there's a lot of violence going on in the banking system. But that is all humans can do from year to year. I think we can all agree that it's important to do something about changing these rules, the people and the citizens of the country. That's why I'm in the middle of nowhere. Prime Minister depending on the arrangements made by his government, or he intends to act if the government has not yet been won out. I'd also like to ask the prime minister about the money now in an indirect way that comes back to the public, and may be viewed as a fixed trust fund for state funds; if he sees in any way that the public will enjoy the special return that he has paid into this great profit through a financial fund, whether any particular ideas exist in this relationship. Then I specifically ask him about the declarations of the secretary of finance that he should not turn down his own money from the bank and take the money into the state funds, whether the government groups agree on this, and whether to spend this money on some project. So I would ask, " Is it not dangerous to reduce the amount of personal money in the banks so soon after there was a major economic disaster in 2008? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u18	A respectable president. A few paradoxs seemed to me when I asked you a question. The senator, for he who has a fit of rage. A senator calls, and may be able to use it for the profit of banks over the past few years, especially because of the fact that the establishment of these new banks, as we were then in a position of government criticism, as well as the banks being handed over to the demands, was privatized behind the scenes. However, the present government has already recovered the banks in far the most significant ways, causing this money, which would otherwise have slipped out of the country and probably been funded by loans from the European Bank, to be replaced by a government fund. It's like the highest. A financial secretary has recently mentioned them as an opportunity to cut down the bank's own money and to receive money from the substantial types of money that can be used to fund important projects in the field of infrastructure, but within the limits mentioned earlier in the discussion of Icelandic teachers. This funding now uses the public in the country to reduce the growth rate of the state's funds and to take out tasks that have been under way or that have suffered severe cuts during the last term. This situation, in spite of everything, serves as a reminder of the tremendous importance of reaching back the mess that was being observed here during the last term when these banks were given to demands; this profits would have been all more and less important, but now, for the most part, they are running into government funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u19	A respectable president. I wasn't asking the highest. Prime Minister on history. I asked if the government had taken action or was going to take action to protect people and businesses in the country from excessive interest rates and currency. The reply of the prime minister is clear: nothing. The government has done nothing for that purpose, if it is to be determined by his answer, and intends to do nothing. But the highest. The prime minister has another chance to correct me, and I hope that I'm wrong; I hope the government will take action to defend people and businesses in the country for this excessive payment, for it is extremely urgent to deal with them. I also ask the prime minister if this is not clear, since the profits of these financial companies are as great as they are, that they will not be sold to privates in the current year. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking if the fact that half of the Parliament's Group has described itself as opposed to selling property items in the National Bank is not a guarantee that that that property will not be sold this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u20	A respectable president. It's a little big. The members of current government stand suddenly become sensitive to history alone, for example, in this case to remind us of the situation at hand. A senator now became troubled. It must be necessary to discuss things in context. It is also helpful to review the story in order to see that, despite everything, it is possible to correct what the current government has done in the bank business by reaching them back so that it can be returned, not from land to demands, but from public. In terms of government involvement with banks, the situation is quite clear. A senator of the arrangement set up for that purpose with the establishment of the State of Bankiscation. It was intended that politicians not directly interfere with banks. Whether to change this arrangement is to be considered, however, within these limits the government's policy is being revised in these banks. In that direction, we will no doubt see the emphasis on continuing on in the same course so that our financial system will develop in order to work for society rather than be a profit - gainer for foreign workers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u21	A respectable president. Sunday, a week ago, 4 of you arrived. Tourists trying to get along. It is similar to the traffic of tourists today in the summer of 2012, and that is really true of the whole of Southland. This morning the News News releases reports that the number of tourists is not going to 20%, as has been the year since the last three years, but almost 40%. It is obvious to me that the entire government and the highest. Ministers, industrial and commercial ministers have not been able to handle the challenges facing these issues. When we face the fact that the increase will be as great as these forecasts do, you wonder: " What will the government do about it? How will she react to the tremendous number of people who are going to be here this year? It is obvious that these need to be handled in the development of tourist facilities, in security, and in a sustainable way. It requires national effort when it comes to the construction of transportation. It is clear and clear from conversations I've had with South Africa's law enforcement officials that the greatest danger for tourists is how narrow the roads are and how much and the heavy traffic has become in very dangerous situations. It is therefore asked: What plans are being made for the highest level of care. A government to face these things, which, of course, are in many ways very satisfying? It is important that a person does not fuck up the position that has come up by simply not doing anything. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u22	A respectable president. I happen to be here with a magazine, a summary that has just been compiled, over the government's actions, especially industrial and commercial ministers, in recent years. There are two pages of all manner of action to deal with this tremendously rapid increase in tourists. What should the government do about temptation? asks why. Senator. Yes, it can be wondered whether it is simply too dangerous for tourists to be allowed to see the situation there, but it is not a government's job to make such a decision. This is why we have established institutions that I trust well enough to continue working that way. However, the government shapes policy and puts it in all areas, from work to transport in order to make capital access available to the necessary structure of the infrastructure at the largest tourist position, a high priority for this category. For example, it was not even possible to complete all the funds that were available in the construction of the largest tourist places last year. Hopefully, they will be able to make even greater use of it now in order to build up more and more. But when this growth is tremendous, the people who are in the tourism service in these institutions who hold on to these things, of course, try as hard as they possibly can to make things fast. But growth is simply so great that we can see that in at least the next few years, this structure will have to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u23	A respectable president. Of course, everyone is confronted with the fact that the government is not able to carry out this assignment. There may well be a long list of actions to the highest level. Industrial and commercial ministers have done, but they're not enough, and they all can see. There is a lack of transport structure, the lack of securing of rural and tourist facilities needed to build up, the lack of legal development, and so forth. None of this has been solved in the history of the current government, and there is not in sight that it will be. There's a total lack of long-term thinking, planning ahead and making plans. All that has been done in these activities has been a matter of spending money on budgets. It's not working. That's not gonna work, chief. Prime Minister, to follow some old plans from the Guðjón - given son of Samúelsson in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u24	A respectable president. I don't know what the old plans for travel are for. A senator pointed to the end, but unfortunately it was a bit vivid for his inquiry, which is in the vast majority of the stocks of loose air. For example, it is claimed that nothing was done in the legal setting of homemaking. It's just wrong. Hv. A senator should know. Hv. A senator also asserts that the lack of funding, the lack of funding in the infrastructure, when I pointed out to him earlier that even the funds that the government was prepared to place in this important group, a case that we have been working on in various ways and are doing. But, hey. A senator and others should not resort to blocs from the news and intend to blame the government for everything that goes wrong, if there is an accident in the country, it is the government's fault. A respectable president. We've developed some very powerful institutions to deal with and deal with these things in this country. [[The president calls.]] They will be funded, and I trust them well to do that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest question. Secretary to travel. It's just that it's the government that's now in power. If she is going to thank herself for what was done well, she must also endure criticism. A travel agency, the Environment Agency and Landsbourg produced a report for Ministers in 2011 entitled Security at Tourists - Policy to 2015. These are steps and were never approved, if I understand correctly, by the then minister, but this is a very good report. It has a schedule of action, which should be responsible for what is to be done, that is, to sort out the areas according to the danger, which are priority areas, where to start, and that includes an attemptor. That I know this is a very good document and I guess this is one of those reports that ended up in a drawer. Now I understand that some groups are at work, including dealing with the security of tourism. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may not be sure that it is aware of the existence of this report and how it is evident that this is now 2016, and we have not really started the projects mentioned in this fine document. I'm worried about this. I'm far more concerned about this case than I am with the highest. Clearly, the prime minister has. We cannot cope with the problem. I don't belittle it's a very big project, but we all want it to work out, and we want to help with that, so we want to help ministers. If she wants to bring her case here to the council to resolve this, then we're all willing to do it. But this is the responsibility of the government, and they must start to show what they intend to do in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. The head of the inquiry, and especially for the factor that I know it is absolutely sincere with, offering to accompany us on this project. I have not tried anything else for the senator, and I appreciate it. The report is one of the data we are currently working with in the transport management centre, particularly in the security proposals. An internal minister appointed a group earlier in the winter, which produced in December and is being continued with the proposals within the Control Center. You see, it's the right thing to ask why. The senator, far too many practical suggestions, good reports, good material over the years and decades, has landed in a drawer. It is such a trade and a subject that they touch so many people. These are the issues of many schemes, many institutions, and the lack of a clear structure in these areas. That's what we're adding. By the cooperation we are performing within the Control Center, these issues, which are addressed to more than one and more than two and three, are being handled quickly, thus establishing them, not indefinitely on the list, but to take action. The safety issue is thus high. In effect, they can be divided into several categories. That's what we have to do right away, and it's not necessarily the things that cost the most money. There are many things that we can right up at relatively low cost and quickly set in motion. Then there are other factors that will come to the council regarding increased funding for law enforcement and transportation, which are on the authority and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. [[The president calls.]] But, of course, in terms of financing, the last of the Council has been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u27	A respectable president. I encourage the Minister. As we have often seen, in our discussions about these matters here in the Hall of Congress, we have been asleep for far too long. This growth has been very rapid over the last 20 years. Ministers are now only in the process of experiencing enormous problems, and they need to respond quickly and effectively. Just like sharks and other things -- it's very annoying to see news of tourists hanging on rope because they barely get to the Seljalands Falls. It can't be that complicated. I want to impress the Minister. I think it's a shame they haven't taken this report in 2011 and joined the project. Then we'd be on better business today. I think it's a sin. What we may be able to do is learn. If we're at one of those things, letting people sit down, work out strategies, and shape a vision ahead of time, we should at least do something about the product.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u28	A respectable president. I agree with the senator there. That's exactly what's behind the work we're doing now, i.e. The work we all agree on must be done. We have agreed for a long time, but no one has acted in harmony with our work so that we can let our actions speak. A guide to a travel service introduced in October is not some document that was created in my office. It's the product of a big total. There were at least a thousand people around the country in a direct way, with that action plan coming and finding the harmony. I was at this morning's big show about the travel service, the conference and the show. Our travel services and companies there and their organization are totally united with us in this work. It is the key premise that we have reached the state, the communities that all play a role, and the article itself so that more reports don't fall into a drawer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u29	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on the situation regarding the Ald school of Iceland's Happy Day Fund. In fact, this request is since October last October, so there may have been some changes since it was submitted, but as noted at the Council that for the 100th anniversary of Iceland's University, it was founded on a special anniversary fund. There were 150 million of 'em. K. and then a special team was set up with members of the General Assembly, the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the University of Iceland to propose contributions to the fund in 2012-2020. The opinion behind what was realized in the panels here was that the donations could support Iceland's University to follow the goals he has set for his policy, and further the aim of making contributions to the university education in this country would be closer to what we know in the countries we are comparing with, i.e. On the one hand, OECD averages and on the other, which are commonly practiced in other countries. The average advance of college students there is considerably higher than the average OECD, and since then Iceland has been below OECD. It was, in fact, adopted in the policy of the Scientific and Technical Council, at the highest level. The prime minister presides over, that this contributions should be followed. A service group was set up to provide contributions in 2016-2020. It is now known that in December the budget of the Alder's Day Fund was adopted by a large contribution from the previous year. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to each of those seats. Has the staff found the case established and expected to be active, and has it set down a course for 2016-2020? It's the highest. The prime minister is confident that we will achieve the goal of making money for a university student in this country, which I believe we must agree on, reaching the OECD average? We were going for it in 2016, but it hasn't been reached, and they were to reach the so - called Northland average for each student in 2020. I don't have time to review how important it is to invest in college and research. I believe the Aldress Fund was a good contribution, since there was a good agreement here at a council to support Iceland's University, and hopefully it should, at least, be considered, to return to other universities in this country, that they follow up on financial contributions. But in short, the question is, Where do contracts stand? [[The president calls.]] Is there a plan for making money in this fund till 2020? It's the highest. The prime minister of the hope for such goals?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u30	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees on the importance of investing in colleges and studies, and he sees this in the vast increase in donations for research and development in recent years. But with regard to the personal inquiry why. There is therefore a member of Congress to answer that the representatives of the Ministry of Presidency, the Generals, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the University of Iceland, are a special member of a special staff. A senator turned aside from the University of Iceland's Day anniversary Fund, discussed the matter, and decided that a job would be temporarily suspended while work was completed on a full - time course for the entire university system. That work is done by the Ministry of Education and Culture. The Ministry of Education and Culture is now working on a full-scale policy for the university system in good consultation with the university. It is estimated that policy is now in spring and is an increase in college funding, in line with the policy of the Scientific and Technical Council, a key factor in the work. When the policy is established, it will allow space to check the 100th anniversary fund, which has its sole focus on Iceland's University, to fit in with the aims of the system's overall success.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u31	A respectable president. It's all good about making a total policy for the entire university finance. I wonder, however, about this special gift, the Aged Unannihilation Fund, adopted at Congress that I believe, by all the votes, that the government, the authority, decides not to keep promises, and that the University of Iceland, which is the flagship of all university operations on the land, should not get the money that the World Council promised him and that they should wait for something else. We all know that the university lacks money, so I want to express both the surprising less and the disappointment of how this birthday fund has been treated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u32	Mr. President. I'm a bit of a laugh about what I thought was the best. Prime Ministers are moving us here, which, in fact, were that the Ald sociary Fund had been made, that, on the basis of the achievement of policy-making in the Ministry of Education and Culture for the university Fund had disappeared from the work that was agreed to attack the World Council on the Age Day Day Fund by financing to 2020. It is a report of the highest magnitude. Prime Minister brings us. I wondered what that means in view of the fact that these policies are not directly behind the highest standards. Prime Minister. So we'll see the Aldjörður Fund knocked off on the next budget, but will new university funding policies be replaced and in some way prevent the funds from continuing according to the guidelines set here? Mr. President, I think that's a lot of news. I would have thought natural that this would have been reported in connection with the budget talk last time, asking a considerable amount of questions. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Should we understand that there is no intention of expanding funds, as previously determined by policy-making policies in the Ministry of Education and Culture? So are we expecting her in the next few days?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u33	A respectable president. I like it. A senator often shares what I said. I was simply pointing out that the work in the group of work that had been planned. A senator specifically asked about the progress and work on improving integration and, as I was able at the end, that when it was available, a particular check would be made on how the Alda's anniversary Fund, which is only about to Iceland's University, was the best place for the overall success of the system. Well, that's not how it is, Mr. Honorable President. All declarations that some relief is being made are not justified. On the contrary, this work is actually being extended by examining the status of other universities and by what means it can also be promoted.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u34	Mr. President. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister on the work home for Kleppl iron smoke. It came quite a bit from a public discussion in the autumn that was related to a documentary on this home where young girls were saved who were considered to be in so - called condition, as it has been mentioned in the history books, i.e. were considered immoral in connection with British and later U.S. soldiers. I made it up here that when this film was shown a subject, I thought it was proper for the General to adopt it, for of course we have an example that the Council has considered matters of the past when it comes to government measures that have been handled by the civilians of this country. That's the way it was in this case. It has been suggested by a number of historians who have studied the matter, either the work home itself, the Klell - iron smoke, and the general government in which young women were interrogated about their personal affairs, their personal dealings with men, especially soldiers, as mentioned earlier. Many people may seem strange in today's world, but I can tell that I got a huge response to this matter, especially from women and those of the women under it. There is still a wound in the national soul that may not have been healed in the same way as other wounds. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, whether it is possible that an economist committee will consider this household's case and whether it is possible that the Presidency Ministry, which has had premeditated other tests of government conduct with girls who had dealings with soldiers in the military years in regard to intelligence, interrogation, and treatment. There is considerable evidence that in view of their dealings with soldiers, infants have been called in for questioning. Women in their 50's, such as the one here, have also been called for questioning on the basis of their communication and not even having the freedom to communicate with anyone. I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister, whether he feels that the government is acting on this matter, that it will be examined and examined, so that we can learn from this story.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u35	A respectable president. Hv. A senator first asks if an emissary committee would consider the work home case with Kleppl iron smokes that saved young girls, as the inquiry says. The need for an ecology committee is asked, but prime minister had no law. 26/2007 authorized to set up a committee to investigate the activities of ecology and treatment institutions for children who were no longer employed by the law. The aims of the Agency and its main projects were in accordance with Article 1. The following words: 1st To describe the activities of the institution, its role in child protection and parenting and the recommendations that children were saved there during the period in question. 2. To seek where possible for any child saved in the Agency who has suffered ill treatment or violence during the stay. 3. To illustrate how official monitoring of these activities was conducted. 4. To establish the basis for a proposal to the government for further action, if necessary. In a letter entitled Prime Minister on April 2, 2007, the first committee was assigned to investigate the operations of the Breiðavóttir in a Red Ardor. Following a report on the activities of the British Home and its proposal for government response, the Committee on April 11, 2008, was entrusted with a new letter of discourse to take a general position on which institutions fell under the standards of law No. 26/2007 and more closely set aside the period in which the committee focused its attention, including the period in which the committee was assigned. given the current child protection legislation at any given time. The committee made the decision to investigate the activities of the following institutions and to provide three fatal reports on them: the deaf school of Reykjavík, the Kumbaravova at Stockholm, the school home of Grising in Seltannei, the home of Smokehing in Mosfells, the School of Homes, Jadar in Oldwater, the state's home, the youth home of the state, and the residence of Silungál. The activity of these households ended in 1967-1994, with the exception of the Listenless School, which was operated until 2002. The first report on the activity of the British Home in 1952,1979, provides a general discussion of government training agencies. It is reported that following the implementation of temporary law No. 122/141, on surveillance by young men and women, a nursing home has been set up for girls to get cold iron smoke and that their activities lasted about ten months. In addition to this report, we find a brief discussion on the home that a total of 14 girls were saved for a longer or shorter period of time. It also says that Iceland's Children's Health Council did not have much to do with the work. In itself, it would be possible to examine the activities of the home for the use of Cypher smoke under law No. 26/2007, with an e-mail board in place. In doing so, however, there would be just one breath of this matter taken into consideration. It's the same question. Either way, a senator may be considered to be investigating government conduct with girls who had dealings with soldiers during the years of military education in terms of espionage, interrogation, and treatment. Such a study could not be carried out on the NTSB's private law. 26/2007. I thought it would be reasonable to consider how these matters would be best handled in all their affairs and that they would not be limited to the activities of Klell iron smoke. It seems to me that it needs a bigger authority than an economist has the current law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. He's had time since October 15 to study this case, because then I submitted this inquiry. V.E.G. One prime minister correctly points out that this would likely require a more extensive commission, so I ask about the Ecosystems and the research and hearing that included the sending of young women to a clinical examination against their will to see if they had slept with or not and if their virgin sea was broken. This was a very strange way of treating the community of young women and women of all ages. Although we take the step of acknowledging that times have changed as well as the attitudes of society, it is something we must wonder if they could be viewed as normal reactions at the time. V.E.G. The prime minister concluded by saying that an economistic committee would need a larger commission, a change of law. So I'm just asking, is that a possibility? I'm going to the top. Prime Minister, now that he has had several months to consider these matters, to put it into practice? It's under the roof. Would it be reasonable for us to examine this matter in some way? This does not need to be in the form of the NTSB. Also, I can imagine that some kind of competitive fund could be wished for research projects in this area. Something like that would be possible. Tells you the highest. Prime Minister that these matters should be examined more closely than has been done? Does he feel that governments, whether through an official committee or with some special earmark capital for such tests, do they have reason to apply themselves in some way?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u37	A respectable president. I reiterate the conclusion of my reply earlier that I consider it normal to consider the best way to view these issues as a whole. Here we are 75 years back. It has to be said that, as it is, at that time, things were done about child rearing matters, prison cases, treatment cases, etc. is quite different from what we believe is acceptable today. As a result, I did not consider ourselves to be desirable to be alone. Rather, I tried to evaluate the best way to make a general analysis of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u38	Mr. President. It was quite a discussion in the late autumn or early winter, when Haggis published the move process, or after the first three quarter years of the year, in the first nine months of the year, it was discovered that a significant return was made on the adverse side, in terms of the fact that far more Icelandic citizens are moving from the country than they are moving to it. What brings special attention to this is that it is happening today in a time of very low unemployment and fine economic growth. So it seems that this is a trend towards a trend that is somewhat different from the one we have been used to in which there have been a very negative period in the move to and from the country have been most commonly associated with subtractions in the economy or temporary difficulties, cold failures, or other such. As the years have passed better and better, unemployment has been less and more economical, since then it has been balanced. The long - term picture, however, is that on average, we lose some part of our country's service, and population growth consists of those who do not move away and those who move abroad. Now, for the fourth and final quarter of 2015, the Habitat has published figures, and unfortunately, the equation is still negative. True, there is much less exercise during the fourth quarter and the first quarter. They're more attached to the spring and fall months. Still, the equation is negative. In the whole year, nearly 1,300 more have moved from the country than have moved to the country of Iceland. Less than half of this group ranges from 213/430 years of age, between 550 and 600 of these less than 1,300 are of that age. Of course, that is not the way we want to see things. So I have submitted, in fact, some time ago, a question for the highest level. A prime minister asking who he considers to be a key explanation for the reimbursement of the large methane of Icelandic citizen again two years in a row after we somehow cut off in 2013. A man was beginning to believe that we had earned the problem that was first faced after the collapse. Second, I ask if the prime minister believes that the conditions in housing, the conditions in a tenet - rent situation, and the lack of opportunities for young people to get into a house where they can afford affordable resources are involved. I'm asking if there is a diagnosis of age and the level of education of those who are moving away and comparing national averages. I'm asking if the government has taken these matters up for discussion, an opinion, if any action is expected on the part of the government. [[The president calls.]] Likely, this is not the kind of thing we want to see in the future, that even when we're well - off in our country, we're still losing on a large scale people from our country, and especially young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u39	A respectable president. The export of the Icelandic citizen from the country over an alien citizen to the country has increased over the last two years compared to the last two years, even though it is much smaller than the last government. During the first nine months of the year, 1,30 more Icelandic citizens moved from the country than to the country, corresponding to about 0.3% of the population. As noted, a respectable president, this is considered within normal limits. Not to be overlooked, however, is the fact that, unlike what used to be, more people in general are moving to the land at the same time than they were. Still, it is perturbing to ask, " Why is this apparent temporary swing this year? ' However, this will only be questionable and perhaps untimely, since demographic analysis, to form at the age and level of the evictions, is only to a very small degree. However, such information must be very helpful for the discussion. It is so true to say, and to repeat, that it is absurd to talk about some kind of fugitive. Although the extravasation is 0.3%, it is not an abnormality, not of international superiority, and may have a wide variety of explanations. It must also be held that some 2,000 Icelandic citizens moved home in the first nine months of the year despite the image. This is where a client pulls up. In addition, far more foreign citizens are moving to the country than does the number of Icelandic citizens. What, then, is the possible explanation for this development? One possible explanation, and it seems likely, is the growing number of students who now have the opportunity to study abroad. There are many who have made it a point to go abroad, people who have wanted to attend school abroad but who have not had the circumstances but now seem to finally see the opportunity to do so, including the fact that the level of the crown's gangs has grown to a great deal of money making a resident more expensive for those who have earned money in the country or who have received a student's loan. That's how the Norwegian crown's gang is now 15 kroner. When compared to 23.5 k. Five years ago, Icelandic. This, of course, greatly alters the prospects of people attending foreign studies. It is also easier to move abroad when home conditions are greatly improved, and homes do not share the financial bondage they once enjoyed. There are not many years since the talk of young people in Iceland who were trapped; for their home to have almost turned into prison because the prison term made them unable to move. But now things are getting very much better, and as a result, people's freedom has increased and the possibility of choosing a farm or following dreams of a job or education abroad. This applies both to domestic property and debt. In both cases, this has moved very fast in the right direction. Various social situations may make it possible for young people to come home or choose to settle abroad for a longer or shorter time. Of course, the ability of people to communicate regularly with their relatives and friends here in Iceland has already increased dramatically as much of the communication between people is being carried out through new information technologies. This actually makes distances smaller than before, and it may not be as big a step as it used to be, especially for young people, to experience dreams of living abroad. Also, it is possible to wonder whether the social revolution with increasing tourist currents could lead to some of the evasive effects. And what do I mean by that? Yeah. It is important, for example, in this situation where this growth in one industry is rapid to focus on promoting other sectors as well as innovation and science and technology. That is especially why the government has placed great emphasis on building and making large contributions to scientific and research. An increasing stream of tourists can also contribute to an increase, and has indeed - a respectable president, I'm just not done, I'll finish afterwards. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u40	A respectable president. Of course, these clues are a measure of concern, but there are two previously unproved explanations, at least not at the highest level. Prime Minister, whom I would like to mention. One is that the analysis of the UN shows that in Iceland's remuneration with the neighboring countries, pay is higher than that for experts and professionals and others, but at the lower end, for people under the averages, there is a much lower rate than in neighboring countries. It is often young people who receive that reward, so it is only natural to examine whether they are not part of the cause here. Then, of course, it is the interest level in the country. Here are many things that happen in neighboring lands, and when young people are looking at a roof over their heads, they just get on the Internet and see the cost of buying and paying off the interest on it here and in the countries around us. In Iceland and other lands, the tremendous interest in growth results in the shouting of life, and I hope that there was no mention of this in the public talk by the prime minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u41	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. The first part of his response was relatively standardized, i.e. that, indeed, was to be significantly increased, but in terms of a much lower number than the first after a crash and during the last term, it would be the highest. Likely, then, the prime minister in good matters. It is true that in 2009, we lost quite a lot of people, both in Icelandic and in foreign lands. Then it began to return to balance, as are these figures, both last year and particularly this year, in 2015, that are probably worse than both 2012 and 2013. The year 2013 had come about to an equalize. The new thing here is that we should live with such a negative equation in spite of some of the most excellent developments in our country. I think we must want to analyze it and discuss it objectively. Because that's not the way we want us to have us lose every day of our lives out of the country. Of course, it is fine for young people to seek study and to be temporarily living abroad. But we would like to get it back, and we would like to enjoy a balanced balance in these areas. That must be what we're going to compete for. Of course, the problem is well - known and peripheral regions, such as Western countries all have to contend with in some way that we tend to differ in people, and they may move to larger areas. But that doesn't mean that we're just going to look for some comfort and then we're not going to do anything. I believe we have to take this matter seriously in the context of how we live with young people, family members. Does this mean, then, that our young people do not find enough exciting prospects here? Why is that? Is it because the housing issues are inaccessible, too high a barrier for humans to get in there? Is it because the birthworm is too short? That the pediatrics are too low? That we just haven't managed to create enough family life and exciting society, a workweek too long, etc., for young people? [[The president calls.]] Then it is something we must take seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u42	A respectable president. I continue to follow through on the additional questions presented in the meantime. It is clear that rent prices have gone up very much in Iceland, especially since the growing number of foreign tourists has pushed the price up. But because this is a general matter of housing, whether there may be some explanation, I think it is now rather farfetched because in all the countries where Iceland has been moving to other countries, in Britain obviously but also in Denmark, the Norway of the North countries, it can be said, have been very much discussed in its political, community, about the problems facing people in their housing. We should bear in mind that the payment rate of domestic housing in Iceland is relatively lower than in most of these countries, and the financial status of Icelandic households has improved far beyond the development of homes in the other countries I mentioned. Of course, all of us want young and well - educated people to return home after gaining experience abroad. But it is not a negative, respectable president that young people have the opportunity to go abroad, get to work there, or learn there, and then return home with that experience and knowledge. We must understand that it has been difficult for people to attack such a situation as did the situation here a few years ago, and in fact, it is a sign that the opportunity for young people in Iceland has increased. At the same time, it is also appropriate to remember that people are not shrinking. The number of foreigners who come here and do the various work, including research, science, university development, etc., increases here each year. [[The president calls.]] So that all of this, in the long run, looks fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u43	Mr. President. I'll call this day a Sigmundur's hour when I'm writing in my diary tonight because it's probably the fourth inquiry I have to the highest level. Prime Minister today. It is, in fact, since November, about the objective of this project, Iceland 2020 - the pursuit of employment and community. The background of this case is that during the last term, major policy-making campaigns were undertaken in Iceland's 2020 application for employment and community. I came to that point, sat in the management group of the project for a while, and was privileged to attend national meetings throughout the country, all over the international parish. There came local managers, local stakeholders, and the general public and set out national goals. This was produced in a vast process and set down central goals, including the proportion of unemployed, to increase the balance and level of equality so that the value of equality would be set and that special educational goals would be set, i.e. The percentage of foreigners who did not have formal higher education, for example, ranged from 30% to 10%. It was also set out that Iceland would be among the top ten countries in 2020 in an electronic administrative number and the e - mail index of the United Nations and that transport and sea transport fuel would be at least 10% of a renewable source by 2020. And I'm here at random goals that by 2020, 75% of new automobiles under 5 tons of weight would run for fuel of renewable origin and that the percentage of domestic food in national grocery consumption would increase by 10% by 2020. I know it's the highest. Prime Minister rejoices greatly at that goal. These objectives were set out as well as on the website of the Ministry of Presidency. This question came to my attention when I suggested that these standards had not been updated during this terms. When I look up the case again now, I see, in fact, that Iceland 2020's project is now under way for some products that are finished ◯ on the Homepage of the Ministry of Presidency. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: He sees the task as finished, i.e. Since it's been put under that hat, the program Iceland 2020? Is not such goals being carried on with regard to those standards? I'm asking if the highest. A minister has abandoned those goals. They were designed in a very cross-cutting, cross-cutting system across the country, and most of the things I listed, as I could imagine to the highest degree. Ministers agree with me, there's something we should agree on here at the Council. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you, has this mission been abandoned? Is it 2020 just the Ministry of Presidency?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u44	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir For the first time, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter asks if the prime minister has fallen from the target set in Iceland 2020, and second, what has caused the standards and goals of the programme to be updated in this ideal period? In 2010 this project, Iceland, was introduced in 2020 - the pursuit of employment and community. The project was based on a view of the future for Iceland, 20 standards and 30 measures were set to achieve its goals. The project, in effect, was a mixture of political policies and practices in the formative and follow-up process. However, the follow-up of the project paid a great deal as the end of the last terms, and the work on the project was closely followed, I think it may be safe to say, in the latter part of that terms. Thus, political interest in the project seems to have been small when it reached the ultimatum. This may somehow relate to the position that existed then in the government, as we have considered recently. So the project was really self-finished. A contract with a private agency to publish information on the development of additional targets was issued in 2014. The details were of little interest, and the update of the numbers had not caught any attention. Hence, unnecessary costs were thought to be involved, especially because the project itself had given way to the whole of policy. Part of this work, though, has become useful. Various jobs still alive were started. For example, work on national parish programmes has been continued but in a modified form. Granted, there have also been a number of people involved in a number of activities that have also been useful in thinking about the future of the country during difficult times, and some of these were interesting to the ideas, work, and presentation of this project, Iceland 2020. However, the development of a long - term policy barrier did not result. In order to avoid the apparent political follow-up at the time, the project seems to have what I mentioned during the last term. Everything in the world, like Iceland 2020, is not always likely to be successful. The behavior of people, initiatives, and creation, is more complex than the fact that it is governed by the central commercial policy of the government and by all potential interests. For example, governments can influence the state of the economy, the environment of innovation, and the distribution of habitats, but they cannot, and they do not have one universal scheme to control where individuals with ideas and initiatives should take their feet. At the end of the last term, political agreements on the establishment of consultations were reached for an increase in prosperity. That field has continued to function during the season and will likely continue for some time. The political parties, the labour market parties, rural and corporate partners are designed to contribute to a more objective discussion of ways to ensure the long-term prosperity of Icelanders. The main reason for this work is the discovery of this group, within the scene, where representatives of different people can openly and freely discuss the benefits and flaws of various ways that could lead to greater prosperity. However, there is no official authority hidden from the board and does not provide a similar policy threshold for Iceland, and Iceland 2020 was supposed to do so. In addition, the project seemed to be based on Europe 2020, and already there has been a loss of plans to enter the European Union, there is no need to adapt to these aspects of the Union's activities. In addition, the ways that the present government has achieved are many of the fine goals described in this article that give brilliant results and thus all you can do is rejoice that this new approach has been adopted.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to get involved in the discussion, for now, when I'm three years away from being a senator, there's no more to discuss in votes than the 2020 program and the terrible decision made by the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollson to take it off. What we received, members of Congress, during the first week after our decision was made, is not left behind in the General's public address. The anger that broke out in the district and among the voters was so intense. Prime Minister. I can't understand this kind of work. When you start considering the methodology used for the plan, you will find it as perfect as possible. When I'm at the highest. Minister says the plan was dead in last term, I say it's a bunch of shit. The way you react in your community to the decision to cut off the plan more than many words. When I'm at the highest. Then the prime minister involves the European Union, and I would like to challenge him to fulfill promises made before the last election, i.e. to have an extension of Memberal talks in the National Remuneration. It's one of the biggest frauds Iceland's ever had to experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u46	Mr. President. That's not what we're asking from the highest level. Prime Minister, he is always better. But I think that's quite a popular opinion, like a wag. The last speaker mentioned, and it is not secret to those who have discussed with the local authorities who have visited the settlements of their recent losses, that it is impossible to include the miscommunication of this government's decision to decompose what was set in place by the active participation of local policy workers through policy activities and to increase its independence and resources for the development of sectoral development and innovation in the form of the parish plans and 2020. And, of course, there is great dissatisfaction that an investment plan of the former government was decomposed, largely because its former government set it up, under the preemptive view that it was unrewarded. It turns out that there is much more than what she went on to pay from banks all the time. There, the government has done a very poor job in regional affairs. She's got a bad time to start building on the insides of society. That's not the real thing for the speech of the highest. When it comes to people's attitudes about how his government has conducted itself in regional affairs, the prime minister will see. [[The president calls.]] She's on a nationwide drop score. [[The president calls.]] It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u47	Mr. President. I have to agree with those who spoke last. I want less than ever. The prime minister says that we had a meeting in the Mysea band a short time ago, last week. These issues were considered only, and it came to the conclusion of why it could not be continued on the course that was started during the last terms of national parishion Plans. A minister was included in the changed procedure of the northwest committee and that arrangement. The meetingers could not really understand anything so that they felt that the rest of the arrangement would be better, more reasonable. I can also say that as a representative of the budget board. That knows the best. Minister. We've talked about it since he came here and became prime minister, every year, e.g. we've made a budget where we've donated extra money, because local government officials all over the country say, "This is the way. [[The president calls.]] At first, it was not as unscrupulous as many other measures, but the conclusion is that the whole country's government is pleased with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u48	Mr. President. It could be understood in words of the highest degree. Prior to the fact that there was no need for the application program Iceland 2020 - the application for employment and community, that would be out of date, and that there was no need for a project anymore, and that would include a minister of why. We who regularly meet people throughout the country and hear their attitude toward that campaign have quite another story to tell. It is very strange that the prime minister would speak this way because this assignment was not started in his day. Of course, there is a great need to carry on with projects that fall under the national parish program, which prime minister has tried to destroy completely. This shows how the Agency's mind is built up in the country. The applicant party wants to take a fist out of the way and not work professionally according to the schedules as this one's going to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u49	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers and what to do. Councilmen who spoke up. V.E.G. A minister felt that the project had been abandoned in the past government, but it is not. Most of the standards presented here have been updated to 2012 and are expected to show that they have been updated until 2013 and that a new government began, although this is not appropriate, sometimes takes more time to evaluate some things. V.E.G. A minister said that he had doubts about the ideologies of mediating policy on social development and employment. Ideas behind the parish program were simply calling as many people as possible, trying to make the process democratic as we discuss how we want our community to be molded into the immediate future. The ideas of the present government have been forming a small number of members of Congress and rural governments in a regional committee to make such policy-making decisions. I ask: Which is more directed to such committees, e.g. The northwest committee, no doubt a number of fine suggestions from there, but the process is not democratic in the same way? This is a central control where people are handmade to make plans for policy instead of opening the process, people calling and trying to use new methods. That is certainly what we need to do if we are going to do what we need to do. I've been thinking, for example, that we can't talk about business in Iceland unless we talk about climate and how we're going to meet the commitments we've made over climate change and get into Paris in December. Then, of course, we need to have this intertwined with the discussion. I'm surprised to hear it. Ministers don't think it's good practice to open up the process, call out people to the table, and hopefully get them out, and it's too bad they didn't succeed, to get over where we're going in social and professional development. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u50	A respectable president. Hv. The senators who came up, angry, angry, angry, needn't take it this way, although it is pointed out that this strategy, according to the European Union's profile, seems to have worked out Iceland and rural governments and localities here and the trade more that the system that is being established in the European Union, has gone badly for the last government, which I thought was to be known for themselves. In terms of national conventions, I just mentioned that these factors had been maintained, in fact, in a modified form. In terms of specific measures to respond to the situation in certain parts of the country, I think it is safe to say that they have been more open and specific than this major European network that was supposed to organise the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u51	Mr. President. The time of the inquiry for our senators left green for Prime Ministers continues. I would like to ask him how governments intend to carry out the UN's global objectives for sustainable development. On September 21, 2015, world leaders gathered at a meeting in New York and, in fact, adopted a very ambitious and unrecognizable goal, to promote sustainable development, to eliminate poverty, and to make the world a better place for us, both the people who live there but also for nature and the environment so that life here on earth can develop without great problems. Among these goals that went into effect on January 1, which replaced the old age goal, the previous codices that were seven in number, and far fewer than here - here we are talking about 17 ambitions in which the first objective, and perhaps the most important, is that all that can be done to eliminate poverty wherever it appears and in all its forms, as it is said. For example, in the Danish edition, if a president allows, as I have it, he says, "Afrikaans figgsdom in the alle dens signer world. ' Other countries have been preparing for and implementing this, and there are obligations to those in this declaration to promote these objectives. As a result, I have allowed myself to ask the highest questions. Prime Minister whether a plan was made to follow up the UN World Goals and, if so, where to find that plan or where it is going to take place. Second, I ask, "What kind of follow-up will be made to the international and international goals of Iceland?" This is one of the expected activities of the Member States, i.e. to update the situation regularly and follow up and follow up how you think you aim toward these targets so that each country is developing, and then all of them together, provide data on how to develop a case. Third and last, I ask if there is a decision on where the above projects will be saved within the Board of Directors. If they do not stay with the Ministry of Presidency, will they be entrusted to some other matters? It is reasonable to assume that the Ministry of State alone handles this matter. Because the prime minister himself was on the road, when this was signed by Iceland, I've given myself that for the first time in his hands, at least for a time, and then to take some point within the Council of Government, there is a hearing that there is a distinction in the Council of Government, whether it is under prime minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u52	A respectable president. Thank you for a clear and excellent question. The government has officially taken this matter into consideration. The custody and outside of the follow-up of the objective will be held by the Ministry of Presidency in close cooperation with the Ministry of State. The Management Board's strategy, with its members representing all the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, will arrive at the follow-up, and it is also assumed that the Minister's Committee on conformity will deal with the situation as necessary. On the part of the government, the importance of a strong follow-up of the entire project is emphasized by the availability of all advisers and other appropriate government and private members who need to be handled. As a first step in the above work, an analysis of Iceland's global objectives and sub-targets from economics and developed policies has been decided. The work will be produced by an analysis report including proposals to focus Iceland and priorities on the implementation of world goals for the next few years and taking into account similar work in other countries. Follow-up of international goals will be in the United Nations, where Iceland as other countries are actively involved. At a conference of ministers in July the next, several member nations of the United Nations, including Norway and Finland, will go through sort of self - examination and will see how this has been accomplished by the Icelandic government. With regard to national arrangements, it is clear that the government will be open to carrying out its goals and that as many members of the community can share in following them. At the same time, ministers will make clear to the council the development of events on an appropriate basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u53	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers, and they make me happy, i.e. to confirm that this matter is taken seriously on our part and is already on a job path. I don't make any comments to that channel. I believe it is only natural for the Ministry of Presidency to take custody and to coordinate procedures, although it is of course involved in the case of another Ministry. Aside from the Ministry of State, the Department of Health has to come to this very close. I think it is also a fine start on our part to go to an analysis of where we stand regarding our individual goals. Some things we may not necessarily have to tell; others have done so for us. Because the first goal is to face poverty and to eliminate it, it is almost near to point out a recent report of poverty among children in Iceland. Is it not obvious that there are areas in which we need to deal with and do better, helping to do so, and making a contribution on our part on a global scale to eliminate all forms of poverty, no matter what its appearance? It should not be necessary to doubt that a good agreement is a special priority in this regard to a situation in which children grow up when they are lacking or severely lacking. I would also like to mention that, through the Council of the Northern Nations, we are working with UN institutions in Copenhagen, where, in recent years, we have a very strong unity with one of the seven U.S. Member States, many of which are central in the program itself, and only on the map with the United Nations institutions, and through their branches in Copenhagen, we are on hand with them. It is also possible for us to be participants in it, on the Norwegian field, to contribute in this way. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we must do our utmost to do what is right here at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u54	A respectable president. I've been thinking about getting information from the highest level. Environment and resource minister for the induction of new environmental protection laws. As noted in my inquiry for an oral reply, I first ask what the law's ensues over its head, since it lay quite long in advance because of the way the law came into existence and as we know it, it was a significant consequence. For a long time we knew what the code of the law would be when the Allied Congress would kill them, and I especially apply to terms of peace, and the rest of the adjustment of the law. Second, I'd like to ask about the effect of the law on some of the Ministry's agencies, their professions, their subjects. As you understand, I am primarily thinking about Iceland's Natural Institute of Nature, the role and projects of the institution which, in part, will change by the creation of the law, but no less influence on the EEA and its tasks. Third, I ask, for the vast, broad impact of nature protection laws on the community as well as for the public's response during the discussion, on the presentation of the laws; first, for rural society, secondly for tourism companies with considerable contact with nature protection laws, third, tourism, and fourth general publicity, i.e. for the public in the community. I have not seen that the Ministry has set in motion any such program on this induction or in what way the natural protection laws in Iceland will affect everyday life and human contact with Icelandic nature. So I ask the Minister of the questions I've been explaining. I'd like to add one question that I didn't include in my written inquiry to the highest degree. Ministers, but I'm sure she has answers on her mind. This is about the implementation of the provisional principle adopted for the Public Court.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u55	A respectable president. I appreciate the inquiry and will try to answer it as best I can. As the World of Congress knows, the new protection laws of nature came into force on November 15, last November, and now the Ministry and its institutions are working in accordance with the regulations set out there. I would like to state that there is no lack of will for the work, whether for the Ministry or for the person here, i.e. working on the induction of these tracks. Among other things, work is in the opinion of law regulations. This includes both mandatory regulations and, in some cases, prior regulations requiring updates. The law also recommends the orders of committees and working groups. Work is starting to prepare and call for nominees on the committees and on these workgroups. I have to admit, though, that I have only stopped to see how best it is to operate on the 93nd degree of nature protection. and we in the Ministry have considered his role, which one should be the most. As advisor, there are provisional laws that are being developed. There is another consistent protocol on imported species, and the rest on transport management regulations taking into account public rights regulations. A review of these requirements and how best to approach them is already under way at the Ministry. Of course, the law was set up in good cooperation between the Ministry and the environment and transport committee. Another question. A senator is about the influence of the law on the individual agencies of the Ministry, their professions, their subjects. Granted, the law affects the Offices of the Ministry, particularly the work of the EEA and the Natural Institute of Iceland, but also the subject of other institutions and especially the subject of the Agency. There is no room for an exhaustive search over all those subjects, for the law is extensive, as agnostic knows well. The law gives various new responsibilities on the EEA, which include monitoring of the implementation of the laws, granting permission and reviews, oversight and management of natural protection areas, responsibility for the implementation of management and protection programmes for the state of peace, education, and counseling on nature protection. In this way, the EEA will review the preparation of peace reports, assessing the necessary protection measures in areas to be set up on a projection programme and implementing a presentation of a proposal to revise the natural memory and the reporting process. It is indeed a vast task that is primarily related to the management of nature protection and the work related to business, oversight and implementation of natural protection areas. Iceland's Institute of Natural Science also receives many new challenges. The Agency, among other things, cares for the implementation of naturemins and their assessment of their protection values, oversees special nature mines and makes proposals for its registration in agreement with the natural memory and the proposals for nature as well as for the implementation of a strategy. At the same time, the Agency should record and publish information about the natural phenomena that have special protection. The Agency is responsible for monitoring in accordance with the regulations of the law and its implementation, providing envelopes, educational procedures, and counselling on nature protection. As for the Organization, it is published on the Agency's website that it has done a very cool job taking out and publishing on its website how to handle environmental protection laws. There are a number of new indicators that directly and indirectly influence rural planning, environmental assessment, and license groups for implementation. Finally, the Organization has a new role in harmonizing data from rural society on road registration in Iceland other than highways. I can inform you that last one of these matters was held, so every day the work of this law is being done. The third question was: How is the presentation? I'm gonna run there fast. How important it is to introduce carefully the changes that the law brings! Ministry services in cooperation with the Ministry intend to represent an open introduction to the changes the law has made later in the winter or today on the spring. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, such information is being presented online. Consider, for example, this clear production of the Organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u56	President. Thank you very much. Minister, excellent answers. Because, at the end of the day, she was in a little time clip, so I'd like to stop by the third. In answer to the highest. According to a minister, the Organization has already introduced new environmental protection laws, especially with regard to its structure and approach to the changing rural activities. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to deepen his answer to those outside what is normally called the public, i.e. Government and community agencies. Then I'm talking about a rapidly growing company in travel services, I'm asking about the movers who are planning to travel into sensitive areas, even nature protection areas, etc., and especially whether to represent public introductions and these operators in the transitional situation currently in terms of temporary agreements on public rights and increasing tourism. That's something I think the highest. There must have been an appeal. At the very least, the person present has seen to a considerable extent that there is a great need to clarify the status of the public rights before these employers and especially those in travel. They naturally need clear answers to where this limit lies when it comes to the established public rights and, on the other hand, the pressures we need to unite to face the dangers that Icelandic nature may face as this situation increases so much as it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u57	A respectable president. Thank you again. How valid and practical are the suggestions the senator gave. I'm here with a very important document, where we're disassembled on what we're working on about each team. As you can see, these are just eight pages, these laws certainly lay on us many obligations, and of course, this is especially true of what the Senator entered the rapidly growing stream of travel to the country. A day does not pass when you do not feel a new challenge in that regard. Surely, we want to do our best to make sure that we have done all the same research. Here we are in the World's Court, IV. section 5 of this magazine, on the management of tourism and preliminary regulations. It is decided to try to present a bill in the autumn Summit on how we do so, so it is working and as a bill of new regulations that take account of the travel services in light of the standards of the public rights to explain it better. As for the senator's further presentation, it's true, I ran a little fast at the fact that whatever professional institutions were working, but surely we want to try to introduce it as best and as far as possible, and call the tourism providers and others because it's right that this right will be - we have to give nature the doubt and make it perfectly clear about service as well as ourselves, because it all starts with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u58	V.E.G. President. All kinds of biofuels are extremely important to people, but the lack of access excludes people from involvement in society, as well as to depend on other people. Then, of course, different areas of society are linked with unbroken bonds. In order for full bioavailability in one field, other areas should not continue to be inaccessible. Therefore, there is little practical use in public schools or places of work if transportation is unacceptable and people cannot get between home and work. This is the introduction that I think is important to you at the beginning of this inquiry. In December 2014, the Ministry of Health reported a report on support systems to facilitate the movement of people. It is a fine document that offers suggestions and can be accessed on the welfare department's website. Of course, I don't have time to trace all that is stated in the report, as there are suggestions and results in 16 points. Therefore, during this brief period of inquiry, I plan to focus mainly on one specific proposal mentioned in the report. It deals with the conditions set for improvement and strengthens the price of cars that the driver himself has the driving rights or other family members. The task force concludes that it is right to allow exceptions to be taken from this condition and to mention, as an example, those who live independently and have personal assistants in agreement with rural society. Of course, this will involve personal assistance. The main reason for the working group is that the use of motorists should primarily be made of the strength of the car and that it should be possible by other means than by limiting the strength to drive the car or the household. So I want to ask the highest. Social and housing minister what we are considering reviewing the current conditions of improving and strengthening the motor purchases of motorists to drive by the car or other family members. Then, in the second introduction, I must come to other changes that may be planned at the same time as this report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u59	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Yearsy Árnadóttir has directed to me a verbal request on what to review the conditions currently valid for improvement and support the motor trades of a car to a car dealer personally drive the car or another family member. The requirement as long as possible. A candidate referred to in his inquiry is included in Regulation No. 170/2009, about automobile strength and improvement in motorized persons. Prior to this requirement, there had been cases where the force had been abused in a way that was not used by motorists who had been funded by government funding. Thus, the purpose of this requirement is to achieve the goal of making the strength useful to the movement mechanism and to prevent the use of others. The Outfit team, like a dog. A senator discussed the criticisms that this condition has come along, and his report says that it is proper to allow exceptions from the requirements. However, it is set up in the report on the proposal with the indication that it will have very strict conditions, e.g. in relation to persons who live independently and have personal assistance in a contract with the local community. The report agrees that the use of motor vehicles should primarily be used, but the aim should be to achieve by other means than making sure that the person has the driving rights or other family members. This, however, would require extra funding for the seminary. The situation is simply that it is not expected to be funded in this year's budget. However, I believe that this requirement of the Regulation will be considered further in accordance with the Commission proposal and that there will be ways to change it and allow exceptions in certain cases without the need for large quantities of expenses to be made to the jury. The second inquiry by the senator, which I expect her to go through a little further but I'm going to use my time to establish, is whether other changes are intended to be made in the motor - moving activities of people, as well as suggestions presented in a staff report on support systems to facilitate the movement of people from December 2014 to which the senator referred to, and where the changes are involved. I agree with the senator that there are many practical suggestions and very practical suggestions. In fact, it was a pleasure to see how humans handled an important assignment, but they tried to include money and funding on the project as well. Among other things, laws to strengthen large - scale motorists because of automobile purchases and fortifications due to purchases on large and modified cars move to health insurance laws and to support their implementation by the health care department. It is suggested that so - called transportation be adopted, which I think is a significant improvement in the system, which pays more than all those who have been assessed as motorists regardless of their property and replaced by replacements for motor - related vehicles. The evidence for this change is that people who are evaluated as motorists but who do not have cars are not supported by the State to meet extra costs for their motor inhibition. Many of these proposals require considerable preparation, and for the purpose of moving a part of the group to a health insurance agency, it must, of course, be agreed with a health minister. It is also suggested that additional cooperation between the government insurance and the health insurance agency should be made when it comes to the choice of motor - related vehicles to ensure that the funds are most useful in making the car suitable for the aid equipment that the person is using or the equipment that needs to be placed in the car. With the changes to the above Regulation, which won the value of November 1, I gave the authorities authority to have further cooperation between these factors as well as to open a warrant for highest support for disabled children under 10 years of age. I would like to be able to keep it up in this discussion to the improvement and fortification of cars on November 1 and, by contrast, to increase 20% in the amount of this amount. I hope this reflects that we are working on the implementation of the tools presented in the report. We're trying to make things right with this important group of subjects, but of course, I'd like to take advantage of further changes that will be used to exploit motion - stricken individuals and further increase their freedom and potential for independent life.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u60	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A minister for taking my troubles and answering the second question that I did not have time to say, but it is generally said to ask if other changes were planned on people's motorists, such as the suggestions given in a staff report on support systems to facilitate the movement of people. We can all agree that, of course, we do not want laws or regulations to be abused, and there is always a matter of finding the ballman between keeping the rules too tight and having them too much more. I think that we also need to think that as time passes, service to disabled people or motion - related persons will change, and therefore law and regulations must always be revised in that light. I think both my mind and my highest. Since a minister stands for more disabled persons to benefit from NPA, I feel that special attention needs to be given to driving the car or other family members. Regarding the second question, it is true that improvements have been made, but not enough or as much as suggested in the report. I'd like to ask her if she intends to use her money to further the next year's budget so that the suggestions presented in the report can be better handled or met. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. Even if we're just ahead of each other here, I think it's very important to talk about this. I also found it unusual, and there may be times when we received suggestions from the Committee, where we have as much thought to make sure that money is as useful as possible. We often receive larger suggestions, even though there are some hundreds of millions of them, when we receive reports from the Ministry of Health. That's a very practitioner's idea of reform. In part, it can be like I just mentioned how we facilitate the management process, e.g. moving a specific project between institutions, and another involves the increase of the amount of money, as mentioned here and some expansion of the arrangement. We're using ourselves to get more money into the social security. This is one of the factors we are concerned about. This will then become evident and will be clarified now as we take up the spring plan under the new government laws on how we view our expenses and, of course, even more so when the budget is due in the fall. The reason I wanted to come back up here is especially so that I could mention transportation. I thought this was a very interesting idea and approach from the Committee. I think it's very important when we look at the arrangement that we are promoting integration, not separation. This has also been seen at the bus station, holding hands on the tourism services of disabled people in the capital area, I understand that one of the things they've been looking for is being able to help disabled people and support disabled people in general, not in special cars, but, of course, can only take the bus like a bunch of rappy people and enjoy the same freedoms that an adult person does. [[The president calls.]] I think this is part of supporting it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u62	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of society and housing for having a word with me today. The health and social security system has a wide range of complications. One of these complications is that people, children, and adults with sustained disability or disability are not distinguished from those with temporary or variable disability or disability. As a result, people with stable, long - standing disability and disability need to apply repeatedly for renewal on health products, production, parking cards, training, and the right to be replaced by tools, although it is evident that the individual will live through disability or disability throughout his life. The Regulation I'm going to ask the highest. A minister is a financial guardian to those who are disabled and chronically ill, No. 504/1997, maybe more like 6. In 1st. Section 6. says by permission of the president: In the case of a disabled child, the applicant's applications to the government's insurance agency should be sent in until the form of forms of a local labour oce on the issues of the disabled or rural communities relating to grouping and payment criteria. Diagnosis should be made by medical personnel for the medical diagnosis and treatment and care of children for the State's Insurance Institute. Two. Section 6. states: The government headquarters pays the cost of a doctor's license according to paragraph 1. Then it's 3 mg. 6th ... whichI'masking. Secretary after. It says, by permission of the President: The measures taken under this Regulation should be set aside for a period of time, up to a maximum of 5 years. Mr. President. Much work and energy are required to apply repeatedly for renewal and is a waste of time, talents and resources to people who need the forwardness and the time of health care professionals who need to do the work, receiving, and review of Witness words and applications and society. In addition, modern technology development has to handle registrations that prevent this imbalance. It is important that registration of persistent, permanent disability or disability are stored in a database so that the same information does not always need to be returned over and over again. The requirement for proof of the burden of disabled people, disability, and the parents of long - suffering and disabled children of their own existence is demeaning and humiliating family rights to enjoy natural and human dignity according to international human rights obligations. That's why I'm asking the highest. Social and Housing Ministers: Precise Ministers review legal regulations for financial assistance with disabled and chronically ill children, No. 504/1997, especially 3 mg. 6th g., in order to reduce the need for renewal of applications because of the group of children with permanent disability or disease?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry on whether I intend to have a review of the financial assistance of those who are disabled and chronically ill, No. 504/1997, mainly 3 mg. Section 6. The Regulation. It is a pleasure to be able to answer the senator, so we have an overall review within the seminary. A general review of this Regulation is already under way and in its entire category of languages. A working group on my side is a group whose job is to cover the rights of parents who are disabled and long - suffering children, but their rights to pay is mainly based on social assistance laws regarding the care payments and the payment laws on parents of long - suffering or severely disabled children. The aim of the review is to evaluate the experience of the project, the aspects of which the senator mentioned in his speech, the need for law change, and the changes in the regulations established by the law. It is true that I was particularly concerned with the order of the Outfit that he was represented by agents who themselves had experience in being with long - suffering children and therefore had experience with the systems that have been established to support this group as well as about its implementation. The point. A candidate in his inquiry specifically points to the fact that the pay given under the Regulation should be set aside for a certain period of time and to a maximum of five years at the same time. There is also a view of the service group. The group has been meeting regularly, and I have observed it and stressed that this work is working well. So I hope to get a report from him soon, and suggestions on the desirable reforms of the group. During the past few days and weeks, I have received much extensive suggestions on changing these laws, social security, and social support laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-29-81.u64	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and I'm really glad she's having the whole thing revised. That's kind of what I was trying to find out, if she was possibly working on these matters. This is the second inquiry I propose to the minister on these matters because they are at the hands of many ministers, i.e. The regulations on renewing the license and assistance to disabled people, who are naturally very negative for them. As I came into this country, we live today as an online nation, and we can certainly have a database that once records information about a person who has lasting disability, so that he does not repeatedly have to apply for permission and assistance, not except through his own physical therapist or specialist whom he is looking for help. It was reported at the highest level. A minister is included in this group of people who have experience and knowledge of these matters and who have had to rely on the system, which is my key. If these regulations are being revised, I'd like to direct counsellors and the highest. Minister of Harðardóttir Hardydó to take into account the United Nations agreement on the affairs of disabled people. It makes it so clear in the pre-composition of the contract that disabled persons should be able to have active involvement in decision-making and plans, including Its direct decision making. It's the same thing. The agreement is that if negotiations or legislation are to be prepared for disabled persons, they should be consulted. I want to reiterate at the highest. A minister to keep it in view and to keep disabled people in charge at all times in such matters, since much work can be avoided, often to follow. These regulations are unacceptable and humiliating; they tell me people who use this service, not myself. [[The president calls.]]
