ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u1	Mr. President. It is safe to say that the Tennd published by the taxpayer is a very interesting reader and guide to those who write there, in view of the fact that the head of the Agency has been trying to scratch the tray by sending out on the web Excel documents that he believes are sufficient data to clear himself of what he or she probably believes is being applied, i.e. that he has not passed his placards and has produced relevant data, CFC reports or anything else to be returned to his or her husband and wife. He seems to be trying to whitewash himself from it. However, the point there is not enough for me, since it does not make any difference to them. That is what matters in this context, that is the moral code of choosing this position, except that he does not submit his tax report because he feels that there is a reason to inform them about any of their marital data. It would, of course, be the most and best thing to do for that would be instead of publishing some excel documents. In the bounds of the Tindar, there is a difference between the sun and the moon. so that most people have not seen a reason to be able to handle their assets in the tax industry and that it would be appropriate for them to keep them in a foreign field under cover of government interference. It reminds us that this was taken up in a report by the II Parliamentary Commission. It also raises the question, Why have capitalists really decided to go that way in a large way? Many have now acknowledged that they were seeking the secret, while we see here the heads of the government groups today denying that they have something in the tax industry. You might even think that their names didn't even appear in the Panamas, that's what the whitewash has to be. [[Up front.]] Now, as mentioned at the end of this article, I'm going to make the final statement to my honored president: [[The president calls.]] The Panama documents have removed the veil from the hiding place, and those who thought that they had hidden treasure in the earth as a pirate might no longer expect to sit alone at the gos. [[The president calls.]] We know that there is much in Icelandic society ahead of us in this regard as to the fact that our community is going to be exposed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u2	A respectable president. It is now five weeks from the discovery of Panama, and about four weeks after the arrival of Prime Minister, Sigmundur, Gunnlaugsson Gunuga, on account of them. But we still join the council as if nothing ever happened, but the government is still sitting. Two government ministers are directly connected and prove that they had and had been dematerialized in taxes, including national financial ministers, Bjarni Benediktsson, who are struggling to sit and who do not claim to be in complete coagulation of the general moral code and are willing to give the nation a new agency of government in the country, which is reasonable and justified after what has happened. I must use my freedom of speech here, a respectable president, meetings are seldom held these days, and it is useful for the government to have a chance here for conversation in the Senate Hall, while Congress is being kept to a minimum. But I must use my freedom of speech as a member of the General Assembly of the Iceland to protest that this is a government and finance minister, the highest head of the province, has given explanations that have failed to pass the information presented in the case and that the owner of his own hand signed legalities which show it and proved that he was fully aware of his foreign society in the Seychelles Islands. I object to this, a respectable president, and I prefer to use my freedom of speech here today to promote it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u3	V.E.G. President. There are jealous conditions in Iceland, many who do not share our economic status, who do not have the same low unemployment that we do, who do not have the same merits as ours. It is of great interest to note in the recent edition of the Federal Bank that by permission of Presidents, the general public uses the quality of the resources here to lower their debt and to follow up, as the Navy says, to the President's credit, a high-prication of the government of 6.5. The stability in Iceland also appears in other forms. He even appeared. In that no matter what goes on, there is a stability in the flow of the Belterla Bank, which is far too high. In a news report by Mlblís, the head economist of the Federal Bank explained why the management interest in Iceland was higher than in other places. He said, by the permission of a president, that during the time, at the end of the century, the prices of those marrying were repeatedly above the objective of this country. It doesn't say anything about today. But the thing is, in Iceland, inflation is mainly a decrease in in inflation and a lower rate, including some reductions. Because merchants have failed to fulfill their moral obligation to pay the full reduction of the government's pay. It also says that inflation has been subject to a target here for two years and that other industrialized countries have a problem far different from that of the Navy. The problem is to try to promote inflation, as the following article says. If we compare ourselves with Sweden, there may be an even greater increase in housing prices. In this way, in many places the cost of living in OECD is considered to be similar to this level of inflation. [[The president calls.]] To improve this situation in Sweden, people have -5.0% body growth. Now I have to ask you one more time, what does the bank manager of Iceland know that Sweden's bank manager doesn't know?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u4	A respectable president. Coastal fishing began on May 2, last year, and more than 700 small boats were given permission to attend the fishing grounds eagerly. The weather is Olympic, the volume is limited to 9 ounces. a ton of four hunting grounds and four hunting days a week. Each boat can bring to the land up to a maximum of 4,700,800 pounds [700,700,800 kg] of unbridled fish from each calm, and good treatment is essential. The winters are Monday through Thursday during the hunting season, and other days can't be caught. The loss of each boat and its owner is brittle, failings, and other distractions. This makes the coastal fishing system risky and dangerous. No one wants to lose a day of hunting, and everything is under way to pick up tight while the tickets are in the maps. The risk is that the pot will not be caught in the affected area and its share will be transferred to other areas, with the loss of income apparent and heavy on the exposed person. The beginning of a coastal fishing season in the West has called for such a risk, for severe seas and erosions. A lost day of hunting will not be improved, a system is inflexible and rigid, and it creates a risk under such circumstances. A respectable president. Then, like yesterday, an accident occurred when a young man went into a row. Our mind and compassion are with the family of the capable sailor. It must call for the response of our senators and the government when such terrible events occur. It has long been pointed out that the coastal fishing system must have a flexibility in dealing with the frequent storms and bridges on the shores of the country. So I suggest that coastal fishermen get to choose regular days each month, which they consider the best ones to calm down and make their parish normal. A respectable president. Let's make the system flexible and minimize. This ensures the safety of sailors and improved treatments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u5	Mr. President. How sad it is for us to face the fact that our society is corrupt, since the nation's upper law is seeking all ways to avoid paying taxes! Off-world dens, such as the government taxpayer, the tax industry of individuals and companies who prefer to skim from payments to joint funds, link more and more people - known in both the administration and the business world; major contractors, and private ministers feel that there is no reason to move and send the message to the community that it's all right, this must be forgotten. No, we must not lose our sense of urgency. It's not okay. A former prime minister was taken to the Independence Party, and he now tries to whitewash himself but reveals how the rich people benefited from paying off the wealth tax. It must rise against the corruption that permeates Icelandic society and embraces a large part of the money owners who seek all ways not to pay taxes and to shrink back from community responsibility. In all the Western world, efforts are being made to eliminate taxes, but the Icelanders are not even invited to the table to discuss these matters, such as those in London, where these cases are being discussed by national leaders. Since the ideal image of the land has grown dramatically, we have become ever more captivated in this regard. The city of cards has collapsed, as the government tax manager so well put it in his Tenth. We must not allow the financialppacy to destroy our country's welfare system by looking for all ways not to pay taxes to Icelandic society. We must stick together and not be asleep because these issues are not okay, neither are we here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u6	V.E.G. President. Why is the growth in this country much higher than in other parts of the North? One reason is that there is a securable loan system on apartment loans. The most common method of success evaluation is to assess results from selected targets. If we use this method in evaluating the results of the World Bank in implementing a financial policy, we can say that the Federal Bank has done a good job, reaching top priority. It is the primary objective of maintaining prices continuously and of measuring inflation at all times below 2.5%. This has now been accomplished for over two years, and it is the longest continuous price - level period since that target method was adopted in 2001. Despite this remarkable result of meritability, the fact that interest here is heavenly in all comparison. It is the cost of home and employment. These results are too expensive to buy in homes and employment. It is not the vision we should offer, that we finance the swing and struggle to maintain a certain level of merit. For example, the names of apartment loans in Norway, with their own independent coin, range from 1◯2%. The difference is enormous, but it doesn't have to be that big. In an open meeting with the Economic and Business Committee, the bank manager admitted that the management interest rates in this country are not due to large portions of the housing bar of the households being rewarded and taking into account the consumption value measured by the Habitat rather than the direction of the Marine Bank. I think it's amazing. It is obvious that interest is not for the bank but for the security of the Pentateuch's real wax floor. This system has to be changed. [[The president calls.]] This loan system of insurance and interest on the calculated head position must be changed. [[The president calls.]] It's not over yet, and there's still time to change this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u7	Mr. President. The fantastic reserves of the government parties to extend their own promises of elections in the fall are not just political treaties. The ideal day must be set for the first of various pratic, real, and valid reasons. The U.S. Congress's legislation on the election calls for man's right to vote. The general rule is that all Icelandic citizens, 18 years of age and older, as well as the Icelandic citizens living abroad who have not lived there for more than eight years. Those who have lived for more than eight years can apply to be transferred to an elected file and replaced with the old charges. To do this, you need to submit a national application, and the result is determined to ensure that, for four years since December 1, the application was submitted, someone should be agreed on by the vote. This means that when the election is decided unexpectedly and before December 1st, this possibility is excluded. This needs to be changed and adjusted, otherwise Icelandic citizens are being courted abroad, thousands and tens of thousands of people living there, who have lived for more than eight years, have a head to vote in Iceland. Another valid reason is that to 57th. a hearing of elections at the Council is required for an off-election bill and should begin as soon as possible after the election date is scheduled, but not until eight weeks before the Christmas Day. However, this means that the election should begin in mid-October October at an off-country agreement that will begin in the latter part of the month of August. Therefore, a special day must be established on spring days and immediately. It is not a matter of personal affairs to intend to survive in this matter, to keep their own promises, that they have largely the right to vote for the people of the land. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to make up the subject of a driver's resolution to the University of Iceland because of the financial programme of 2017●2021, which we've been discussing here and is being treated as a financial committee. I so deeply agree with the disappointment that the headmasters express in a conclusion regarding the college funding level. We spoke to the minister of education at a hearing with a financial committee yesterday and hopefully we'll be able to talk more with him here at the Senate Hall on this subject. As a minister says, it seems that we have managed to increase the number of college students in this country. We had very few academics some years ago, but college attendances have increased very much, and we have a pair of countries with regard to a number of students in college. At the same time, expenses for university levels are a proportion of GDP below the average OECD countries. If we compare ourselves with the North countries, we're a long way under. This budget does not anticipate any increase that may be promised; 2◯3% to 2021. However, at the same time, quality of the university and research activities should be improved and international competitiveness and relationship to the job life and a number of progressive goals are developed. How should this be done if more money is not to be given at school, some of which are money - oriented? Should we reduce the number of students? If we are going to reduce the number of students, how will we do so? Are we ever going to have an oral test? More demands? Then it may be that those who want to go to college need to take a course somewhere, and it costs money. Whatever the case, we need to educate that person, and we don't want to reduce the number of college students. So I don't understand what's going on when it comes to college. They're going to spit on high school, and it's really good, and it's time. [[The president calls.]] But it's not okay, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u9	A respectable president. The income of young people in Iceland has been summed up compared to older generations, and young people have not had the same economic growth as others. This is something we've heard in the news the last few months, and we know it. I have repeatedly discussed this part of the talk, and I have called it after we discuss it in a special discussion with the secretary of finance, but I have not yet received it. I'm waiting for the highest. To make sure that the program will be scheduled before the assembly ends in spring, whenever it will be. There's a big concern that the young generation is going to be after, if that's the worst of all, money on the land, because, as we know, this is the lifetime of spending. People are putting up with children, people are training themselves, people are making commitments, such as taking mortgages and other things, and it is important that people can see out of the months, see to it that they can do their own things, be able to live up to their own commitments, keep up their work, provide for children, and make them up without simply overworking them. That's how it is today, and it's a concern, and it's something we're supposed to be talking about at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u10	A respectable president. I would like to call attention to the serious situation that comes to Icelandic students who are attending foreign studies. Now I was getting an answer from the highest. Secretary of Education and Culture on how many Icelandic students are represented by the Norse Sisters LIN in Sweden, Denmark, Norway, and Finland. What you can see out of these numbers, which reach ten years back in time, is that after a collapse, and especially after 2011 and 2012, there has been a tremendous increase in the number of Icelandic students going to the Northlands to go forward there. For example, in Denmark there were before crash, through 2008/2009, almost 600 people who accepted study support, 527 to 588 at the most. From 2011/2012, the number is up to 909. 2012/2013 is 1,015 and 2014/2015 1,165. In comparison, there has been a reduced number of Icelandic students who are living in the future in WIN and who are attending foreign studies; they have dropped from 2,751 in 2009, 2014 to 2,150. We now see that nearly as many people are represented by the foreign sisters in LIN, the Norse Sister bases, i.e. 1,979 in the last year, with 2,150 available to LAIN. So it is not long before any Norwegian sister organisations will take part in the education of Icelandic students. Is that what we want?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u11	V.E.G. President. I found in my possession a three - year - old talk that I felt was a reason to dust off, as the clergy do. In many parts of the country, doctors are scarce. There are a number of reasons. All of us would like to have access to medical services and again want to point out a solution to that matter. At the head meeting of Iceland's Medical Association in 2012, a decision was made on rural medicine, or regional medicine, as some doctors would like to talk about. In that conclusion, a health minister was challenged and said, by permission of the president: ... to bind in Regulation the authority to allow a specialist physician to obtain the approved subsection of rural medicine and to immediately define what is involved. A report in which the conclusion is that there was little renewal among family doctors in various areas. At the same time, the doctor's work in rural areas is much different from the medical work on the grave. The few also cause a greater shift load in peripheral areas and a more varied problem to arise in shifts. At the same time, there is less opportunities for social and, especially, professional support in the medical profession. That is exactly what happened at a meeting in Akureyri recently. Doctors and the head of health institutions from peripheral, Norwegian, Canada, Sweden, and Scotland as well as Iceland met there. There Strasser Roger, president of Northern Ontario School of Medicine, Canada. He said, among other things, that health care facilities in remote regions must take the initiative to solve problems with health care professionals. Strasser Roger, with president's permission, says: "The most important thing is to take over and put things first for us under our circumstances. " Since 2003, the Akureyri Hospital has formally participated in the education of doctors. It's a good idea to pick up a new study course, end of Iceland's coastal country. The study of rural medicine is widely recognized. I see the structure and sponsorship of the University of Akureyri working with the Akureyri Hospital as a result of this, as well as the building and strengthening of health institutions in many parts of the country. The key is to take initiative in these matters and to show the responsibility of everyone for good at all times and everywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u12	V.E.G. President. First, I would like to remind you that January 26th, I produced two queries regarding the sale of the Lands Bank's ownership share at Paying for 2.2 billion dollars. Just reviewing it. But what I wanted to say here, and now I'm celebrating it, and thank you very much. A president for his team after I wrote him a letter to apply it and to get better and more satisfying answers. It is stated on the website that the Bank Office wrote a new letter asking the National Bank for more detailed information from what I asked for and discussed at the General Assembly not long ago at the U.S.A. Secretary of finance. It seems to me that the Bank Office wrote a new letter with some kind of sharp and good questions where reply is requested, including what I feel I have come up with, that there was some price, which I have previously stated from the General's symposium that, of course, is available in all companies, I do not speak of when selling. The answer to that question is being followed. At the same time, it says that this 2.2 billion item, 31.2%, has grown to be worth 61⁄28 billion today. In other words, those who have purchased profited at four and a half billion dollars. I must be delighted to bring this up, as well as with the hope that when there is an answer made by the National Bank Office to give the Council no later than 18 May, there will be more detailed information in which I feel I have been placed over this case and all the information will be placed on this table for us senators, and I will not speak about and celebrate the report that the Minister of finance is going to state that he has announced would then be discussed in the process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u13	V.E.G. President. It's just two days since we spoke in this building, the security of tourists. In addition, companies have been urging tourists to travel throughout Iceland during wintertime on cars who are even sleeping places but are not prepared for mountain roads, heavy snow, even high levels of ice, and the gambling that can often be found here. There is little place for those who travel in such cars to stop overnight. Thus, for the chosen one, both towns and fields often become demolitions, and pears, including to view the sights and general tourist areas. It is very serious that it seems that these tourists are getting very misleading information from those planning such trips. The public often has to correct that misunderstanding, but sometimes people have to be led off their land and explain that property is not to be run over, driving through the ground, etc. It has to do with the safety of tourists to give them the right information when they arrive in the country; to give them information about the facilities and to explain the relevant laws. This is an example of losing perspective on the amount of tourism that has become available in Iceland. The rationalization of tourism, as mentioned here on these cars, has been that hotels are often booked, but we need to make sure that these people are not traveling under circumstances that we Icelanders may not be attending. I think we need to set up a better surveillance of the tourism services being started and the innovation being introduced. [[The president calls.]] Although it is good to create employment, we must not stake people's lives on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u14	President. I still want to complain about the rudeness that the government shows to its members and, as a matter of fact, the whole nation, by not uttering when to vote and how Congress will be conducted in the next few weeks. Our private affairs are not how the law is handled or done in this place. Sometimes it seems that those who have been elected to the Generals believe that the legislation and what is being done here are some of our private affairs. That's a big misunderstanding. We're here to work for the people of the country. It must be trusted that we do so properly and that we have some perspective on how the work is going to be done, not just that it is something like some ◯hap money. I apologize for your language, Mr. Honorable President. I'm still calling on the government to tell us when to vote and then bring in the priorities that they feel must be taken care of before the election comes. It is not just for us senators, it is for the people of this country, to be remembered for us, but it is for the work needed to be fixed in the land. In this regard, I call attention to a very significant subject that will be discussed in the future, on a general rented apartment, a long - awaited bill. It took the highest. The secretary of the house nearly three years to get the primary projections in here, although they were almost ready when she sat on the minister's chair. The nominee for this big case was distributed at 9 or 10 a.m. [[The president calls.]] What kind of work are these?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to make a general election a topic and then a vote. I'm surprised to hear that the election has already begun for June 25th. Yet, most of those who have declared the offer have not turned in so that it is legal. Nevertheless, Presidential elections are out of place. What kind of law is it that the General Assembly of Iceland will vote for if such a course is possible? They volunteer, they announce the invitation, but they are not available because they have not submitted the data. Last night was informed in the news that the candidates have an extension until May 18 or 19 to return them. The data will then be reviewed to see if the lists they have been submitted are valid, as well as available. At the same time, elections are out of place, and people have no idea who are running for office. [[Up front.]] Yet, even though everyone is running for office, the art of being available has to be turned in and is behind them to a large number of people. A respectable president. I'm sorry to put it this way, but this election legislation to the Presidency, the Republic's Supreme Court, is a charade as it is available today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u16	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a committee study on a standard apartment bill. All right, everybody. Senators at once. The welfare committee is meeting for the committee's opinion. Before I continue to speak, I want to thank everyone. The members of the welfare committee for much and good work where this was viewed. In addition to this, I want to thank the members of the World Health Committee for a great deal of good work in the progress of the situation. In the process of the case, there were many reviews, and the committee received visitors at quite a number of meetings. I'm going to this 30 minute talk to review the main points of the committee opinion, but I will only cover a lengthy section of the committee's opinion. In many cases, I will refer directly to a panel opinion. 1266 and into the shape of a new model. 1267. A respectable president. A standardisation bill is designed to lay the groundwork of a new tenet-engineering system. Its primary objective is to increase the supply of rented houses and that people's housing costs will be in accordance with their ability to pay. It was indicated that they were using people in the lowest of the five chicks. First, work on building a housing policy in the handling of the bill was suggested that renting should not always exceed 203/425% of the income. In addition to the content of the previous Article 1, some committees desirable that this objective should be reflected in the law. 1st par. The bill is one of the bills that were the government's counter-to-collar agreements last spring, which took place among us. to accept collective agreements. Within a second. The welfare committee is another bill that has to do with the collective agreements, which is the home payment bill. It is important that the arrangements for housing work are as early as possible to be taken out of the committee. Two. the bill is about definitions. They even spin. for changes in the general name of the bill, but it is suggested that the public apartment be discussed more fully. It is suggested that, instead of using the term 'general apartment society', these apartment communities will be referred to as housing institutions. It is also important to note that the term "programm" was deleted from the definition phase where the separation is withdrawn from the law, including to promote more social mixing in the system. No changes were made to Article 3. The bill and that's 4. Which is about a general apartment society. There was a government tax manager with tips covering the approved or organizational records of a general apartment society. The committee responded to their comments and made adjustments. In addition, there is a set of regulations that discuss how to handle the management of private living partners. Set up members to evacuate the team. Prominents are desirable to believe that the budget has more room for the use of management supplies, including this. can be used to level rent. For a discussion of social status, see Article 5. It is, in fact, there. The institutions and institutions of the public apartment partnerships, the items to be included in the Union's approved or organizational files, members of the general housing organisations, how to handle social meetings, and how to dispose of community property beyond debt, will thus be removed. The committees suggest that various aspects of the article fall away, including some of them. to comment on a list of points in an approved or organizational registry, and to suggest changes in social events where your apartment institutions are autodivided institutions, which do not have members and therefore no social meetings. Their greatest power is their own governments, and therefore this law of the law departs. Other changes to Section 5. and the preceding articles will explain themselves to members of a committee study and the adjustments mentioned at the beginning of the talk. The changes made in 6. Article 7 of the European Commission and the European Commission. Article 3 of the European Parliament, also known as the Commission's work, can be found in the documents quoted above. Eight. discusses the Council of Public Affairs. It is, in fact, there. Based on the change in terms of the selection of the representative council of the community at society's main meeting, there is an area of self-employment institutions that do not have members of the community or social network. It is reasonable for the Commission to decide in their approval or order of how to choose a representative body. The nominees, however, felt that it was important to ensure that residents were in control of the apartment society and therefore suggest that at least one third of the council members are from among the tenants if possible. At the same time, we will discuss how a representative council chooses a government, and then it will be determined more closely in a agreed or organizational file how tenants of the council will be chosen. The budget of construction is discussed in Article 9. and on annual accounts and reviews to Article 10. It is, in fact, there. It should be noted that in general housing companies should maintain construction funds for the maintenance and needed improvements in their local and domestic buildings. It is expected that all renting general apartments will go into the fund, except on loans, operating expenses, and payments at Housekeeping funds. However, the Commission considers it desirable to have more space in the use of rent income so that it can, for example, be used. uses to balance rents between the population or to raise their own money. According to tips given to the Committee on the need for special funds for maintaining and renovating, the Committee proposes the change to the maintenance funds that will be provided for normal maintenance and the necessary improvements in the general apartment and real estate. Other changes to 8,◯10. par. In committees and the changes mentioned above, you explain yourself. A respectable president. That brings us to an important point, Article 12. This is about stock contributions, income and property boundaries. In 1st. is a law on how to obtain stock contributions, which is in accordance with the bill. Companys because of community housing and tenants where they owned were engaged in the implementation of the law. The Commission suggests that sources will not be limited to rural housing or that tenants have been employed in the implementation of the law, since the local authorities and law enforcement agencies believe they can be trusted to keep their general apartments in place. At the end of 1. refers to tenants that meet the 23rd requirement. The committee suggests that rather than referring to Article 23. This is to be done so that it will be as accessible as possible. The Commission believes that, in special cases, it can serve the purpose of the law to provide general housing with another legal entity other than an article in 1 mg. Section 12. It could, for example. We mean if a housing partner wanted to have a general apartment in his hired partner's neighborhood or if a local community wanted to build a general apartment in association with others. So the committee suggests that there may be a provision for others with a special approval of a minister. 3 mg goes away where the separation is taken out of the law, including to promote social mixing in the system. Four. it tells us that it is forbidden to create a foundation for an apartment building that has been purchased before applying for stock supply. The committee was told that apartments who came for sale often sell quickly, so they may need to be quick about buying. It may be difficult to always put in place an application for stock growth in time. In view of the indication, the Committee suggests that applications can be submitted up to four weeks from purchases. However, if you buy an apartment without agreeing to a developer's application, you should be aware of the risk of being withheld from your stock supply. Four. it also contains instructions that apply when the value of an apartment is new to buy in another home. The committee suggests a slightly altered presentation to explain that while the value is used to buy more expensive apartments, but not just more apartments and that they apply to building apartments but not just for buying. The bill assumes that certain payments for construction funds and Homing Funds and reimbursement contributions, when appropriate, will already start on loans from an ordinary apartment. It was noted that it would be easy to avoid them by taking a loan very long and extending it or by reinvestment. In order to support this, the Committee suggests that the loan time will be maximum. On the basis of the information that the committee acquired for the loan period, it would have to be in order not to rent more than a quarter of the pay on tenants, the committee proposes a maximum of 50 years. Five and six. are specified rent and property limits at the beginning of the rent period. The committee suggests a slight tax error in 5 mg. you will be adjusted and the criteria will be updated due to changes in prices. The committee also suggests that the word combined to be shot at the front of 6 mg. to explain that if two or more rent a general apartment together, but not each one's property, the clean property of the two parties or all the tenants. In addition, there are extenuating regulations that I refer to the committee opinion and the adjustments outlined in the front of my speech. 13th. will be discussed in terms of the establishment of the state because of general dwellings. It suggests that the Commission will prove to be a final stock value higher than an application proposed to produce stock supply at the estimated price of stocks. This also includes increasing motivation for candidates to be able to work on the stock market and keep costs within the budget. It is important to note that if the committee was generally not to exceed a quarter of income, it was required that it be handled specifically with the tenants. Therefore, the Committee suggests that up to 4% additional contributions are allowed from rural living quarters and an apartment building intended for students or microplies. Where there is special support, the committee suggests that there is no reimbursement on loans. It was noted to the committee that in some parts of the country, rent - building failure would be difficult to deal with without borrowing. This should especially apply when considering property would be very low or market - priced and creditors would be reluctant to lend mortgages. Even in the worst cases, it may not be possible to finance rented camps, despite 30% of the estate produced by state and rural groups. In view of these indications, the Commission suggests that housing loans will be permitted to provide up to 6 percentages of additional donations in areas where rent houses are scarce and the building of apartments has been a minimum or a special problem in obtaining commercial funding. As an exception, there is a possibility that the committee will expect only new ones when 30% of stock supply is expected to be inadequate. The committee suggests a parallel shift of 16. the creation of rural society. The sources, however, will be independent. Thus, whether the other party does or does not, it will be permitted to make additional contributions. However, the committee suggests that there is a difference between the sources that no reimbursement of additional Kingdom contributions may be required after loans are paid. This includes a special community support from a state. Several members and members of the Committee criticized that half of the establishments of a country in the form of a direct contribution were paid out when we agreed on an application, making it possible for an increased risk to the State and risk abuse. Similar criticism was found regarding the development of rural society. On the contrary, the arrangement helped finance general apartments and reduces the need for expensive mortgage loans that should be returned to lower rents. In view of the potential for abuse, the Commission points out that the Substitute Bank is entrusted with surveillance of citizens of general apartments and that abuse may be punishable. So the committee does not suggest a change in this regard. In addition, when a general apartment has been put in use, it is said that a growing supply will begin. The committee suggests that it will start more quickly when a loan begins, ending its purpose of reducing the financial burden of loans. According to this article, it is permitted to set up conditions for the establishment of a Kingdom that will be reimbursed when loans from a general apartment have been paid up. It's a similar set of regulations for the country's stock contributions in the bill. The arrangement was somewhat critical. It was noted that according to current 37rd gr. law on housing would be granted irreversibly supported by growth. Some institutions include less support, or even no support, would be required to repay them. The Commission points out that in the bill it is not expected that the reimbursement demand for stock growth will continue until the date it is stated, which is likely to be only after decades from handout. It is also assumed that a part of the proposal may be paid when accepting an application and that remuneration would be required on a bet and borrowed from an apartment. Both include increasing risks between the state and the community in order to reduce the cost of budgeting for the candidate. So foundation contributions, though required to be reimbursed, still involve considerable support. That brings us to the 15th floor. and that, in fact, is what the Bible says. that the Substitution Fund was allowed to look to the basis of evaluation of build-up applications. Can do that, for example. This means if there is a shortage of rented houses in the area that were operating for cleaning. Based on the same principle, the assessment of whether an additional contribution should be made to apartments in areas where rent houses are scarce and the construction of apartments has been a small or special problem of obtaining funding for public markets. 16th degree. magazines on rural development, but they can include: This includes a reduction or folding of the fees the candidate will need to be assigned to a rural society due to buildings or to purchase from local apartments. The Commission suggests that the directive will be made more strongly by stating that the establishment of the stock can consist of a direct contribution, distribution of weights, or reduction or deposit of expenses for the applicant to be returned to the rural society for the sake of the apartment. This article contains a warrant for paying half of the country's growth in an approved application. However, the bill assumes that the local community will agree to an application before the Substitution Fund is about it and that the company's approval will collapse the confidence of the Substitution Fund of application. It would be unfortunate if a community had already given half a stock if the camp loan fund turned down an application. So the committee suggests that the first half of the rural population does not respond until we agreed to the Substitution of a government strain application. In addition, there is another set aside in the article that the members of the Governing Body recommend to be disfellowshipped. They are explained in a committee study and the changes outlined earlier in historical history. 17th par. deals with reimbursement, mortgage, and bill. The Commission suggests some adjustments in this article to make a clear distinction between reimbursement and reimbursement as a result of an apartment being transferred from the general apartment system or by a loan that has been paid for it, and to explain how to repay in each case. This article provides an exception to the reimbursement of stock making on the sale of public apartments if the value is used to buy an apartment building that is to be used for the same purpose. The committee suggests that this issue will be set up a year and that it will have to be clear that it will reach the construction of an apartment building rather than just to buy. The committee also suggests that the approval of the camp loan funds will be granted to special developers and that they will only develop stocks at regular intervals, but not immediately, because of each sold apartment. A financial advantage may be the case with a legal entity holding a large number of apartments and building or buying and dealing with apartments regularly. The secretary is expected to provide additional rules on the books, including when to proceed with the appointment and interest of reimbursement requirements. In addition, a reimbursement of the government's founding industry should be reimbursed, while reimbursement will be paid to the local community. Remuneration should be used to provide additional stock proposals if more public apartments are needed. The Commission agrees that there is evidence to reimburse local institutions to the relevant rural society, making it useful then to continue building general apartments in that rural society. On the other hand, the committee suggests to repay the establishment of the state's budget rather than a trust fund. This will help to speed up the building of a social value in a Homingham Fund. The committee proposes the opening statement 4. mg, that a stock supply should be reimbursed, removed. Remuneration may be smaller than stock making, since reimbursement is based on the estimated prices of apartment prices than on cost-of-the-price stock money. Costs may be higher than market prices, especially in areas where construction costs are higher than market prices. At the same time, it is stated that the requirement for reimbursement should be guaranteed by gambling at the appropriate apartment and be placed on pledges next to the loans of the stocks. It was suggested that the requirement would be required to minimize the risks of state and rural society and to reduce gambling management, as well as that the requirement should be placed in the front row. This would outweigh the risks of a lender and, as a result, likely financial cost, but it will likely result in a rent price. The change thus works against the goal of the bill to reduce rent. So the committee does not suggest a change in this situation. In addition, it is recommended for a plagion t o v e t h e n t h e a t h e n t h e n t h e n t h e n t h e n t h e n t i n t h e n t h e n t h e n t h e It was noted that when stock contributions were provided for new buildings, there were no apartments. Thus, the Commission suggests that a declaration of property will be made rather than an apartment. Depending on the circumstances, the declaration can take over rather than prepared apartments. 18th par. for general apartments, it is changed to insist that despite emphasising practicality, the time's requirements for proper housing should not be decided and future needs, such as the change in population age composition, should be kept in mind. The contents of Article 18 are set out in more detail. of the above mentioned aluminium and of the above mentioned changes. Twenty-niner. discusses the decision of rent height. The bill is based on renting a general apartment by means of a phase. This arrangement received considerable criticism. This would make it harder to contribute to social mixing within the target system. This was unacceptable to members of the committee and therefore took over the steps, attempting to contribute to more social mixing within this system. The article also discusses whether households should be allowed to collect market rent if tenants cover income or property limits set up in the bill. Therefore, there is evidence that the goal of the bill is to support less money - rich people. Therefore, the Committee suggests that rent stress must be calculated if a tenant exceeds income or possessions for a continuous period of three years according to the rules given by the Minister in the Regulation. It is expected that a specific percentage of income or possessions would be exceeded by the criteria specified so that the peripheral effects of the increase will not be too high. The source requires that the owners of public apartments be able to collect information on the income and property of tenants. So the committee suggests that they may be allowed to demand copies of their last three tax returns. These points are set out in the Committee's list and in the above documents. 20. it is about the distribution of the general dwellings, that they should be distributed by their owners. In many places it is true that corporations and organizations hide community services to care for the distribution of social facilities. The committee does not consider reasons to interfere with this, so it suggests that the owner may be allowed to negotiate with the local community to care for the distribution. In addition to this, tenants who have been assigned to an apartment but because of their changed circumstances, the need for another type of apartment lies first in the distribution of such an apartment with the same owner. Although this is quite normal, the committee believes that a particular situation may justify an abnormality. So the committee suggests that the word "probably" will be inserted. In the same paragraph, it says that the distribution of general apartments should contribute to the wide variety of habitats and social blending. The student society agency did not consider the separation to be compatible with its activities, since he served only one group, a student at the University of Iceland. The Commission does not consider this abolition of the community center to call for a change in the law, since the background of students at the University of Iceland differs. The article also says that it is permitted to rent a temporary tenant apartment over the pay and property limits of the bill. The committee suggests that they may be required market rent, not the purpose of the bill to subsidize the rent of more people. A respectable president. So now it's the 22nd floor. which is about community and other partners living in an apartment building. There are several proposed changes, and they are reported in committee photos and adjustments. 23rd degree. which deals with societies, other than those owned by rural society, are also proposed to make adjustments in regulations, including some of them go away. As with a 22nd degree. I refer to the committee's opinion and my proposals for change. Regarding housekeeping Fund, discussed in 24 C.E. g., it's suggested that the bill be referred back to what. The welfare committee at the end of this discussion, where members of the committee will review the requirements of the fund. 3rd. I will discuss the role of Homing Fund and his subject. Finally, chapters on monitoring, implementation of these laws, change of other laws and regulations will be considered temporarily. There, as often as before, I refer to this story of the committee's opinion of fish. 1266 and the requested changes. 1267. As noted above, the matter is suggested to go back to what? At the end of the discussion, the welfare committee. At the end, I want to mention it and again thank you for a lot of good work. Senators on hold. The welfare committee, thanking members of the Committee for a tremendous amount of work. There has been a great deal of agreement between all members of the committee to pass this issue, and everyone has contributed a great deal to that. As we have previously seen, the bill is intertwined with another bill dealing with housing benefits. In order for the government to have tenants pay no more than 203/425% of rent income, it is important that both this bill involved in a general social network camp and a bill for housing benefits be achieved, for it is aimed at achieving that no more than 203/425% of the rent-offs of persons are available. Therefore, it is important that the home - care bill be performed quickly and carefully from the welfare committee. I have no faith in anything but that this will be in view of the good cooperation that has been enjoyed by the Committee so far. I'm particularly glad we're taking some steps on the basis of the regional principle with the bill and the granting of the stock production is also a factor. See what's left of it. We can even see there. the higher stock strength to certain areas that I think are very important, since we know the need for rent houses is high in many parts of the country. I've come to the end of this story. Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, the boy. A senator standing here, my ass. paritaprevir Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þordónardóttir and what. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir was away at the hearing, but literature was considered as 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the heading, write why. Councilmen Ingadóttir Ingabjörgdóttir Igga, Director of Health, Arnardóttir Lára Eagledótttir, Specialist of the case, Ásmundur Friður Friðriksson, Ólína Kjerlándótir, Páll Valur Brá, Ragnheiður Konráðsdóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdur, Sigfússon Sigógursson, and Sigólá Konásdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u17	V.E.G. President. First, I want to agree and rejoice that the welfare committee has completed this work, and it is also happy that the entire committee is behind these changes. But I also have to say, a respectable president, that perhaps it's an example of the bill as such that it's a bit small that such an adjustment is made to a Minister's bill. Looks like it's what I'm talking about. The welfare committee is simply writing a new bill. In fact, the headline is changed, that's a little rare, so little remains of the original plans. However, the views presented here in a compromise between the representatives of all classes may be respectable. There are some things I would like to ask about. Hv. During this terms, a senator has been busy talking about the insurance and the removal of the insurance. It was the main election for the forwarding party before the last election, and I think the advance party got a lot of its share on that promise. So I ask why. A member of Parliament: Where does the promise of insurance and its delinquency stand, as the advance party promised? All the good plans presented here will be infected with prices and a firm foundation. I don't know. A senator also owns what members of the Independence Party often talk about, i.e. The management growth of the Cords Bank that they feel is too high and that affects everything. But my question to why. The senator is: How does the bill go about decommissioning insurance? Where does that end up?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u18	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller for the counter, although this is not a general practice of socializing. You're right. A member of the body says, has been making enormous changes in the bill involved. It only shows how powerful the council is that members of the Parliament can make a significant impression on the basics that are involved. But because. A senator asks about abduction of the insurance policy is being prepared to negotiate the terms of the insurance policy at the Minister's Committee where the financial system is being revised in its entirety. Among other things, resources are being considered for the first buyers. It's up to business insurance. You're right. A senator tells me that I have been busy discussing the importance of decommissioning insurance at the Senate Hall and until we see some suggestions that I can possibly accept in this regard I continue to discuss the importance of we're going to disintegration insurance on consumer loans. I will continue to discuss it at the council Hall until I see the primes of that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u19	V.E.G. President. Little am I able to get on the job of decommissioned insurance because the case has been on the Minister's Committee all along, all this terms, the past. That's what we're gonna say. A senator to the Minister's Committee will consider the matter. It has been observed in the case of the highest degree. Secretary of finance, which I understand is the foreman of that job, and should do the job, that, on his part, do not stand by to present a bill for decommissionment of insurance for the remainder of this terms. It's not enough to come here and discuss this with the council. The panel is betraying this main election code, and it does not suggest a suggestion on that subject. That's what stands out. I can't believe that the advance party is going to make it happen that there are no suggestions in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u20	V.E.G. President. As I said before, there are proposals that are relevant to your insurance at the Minister's Committee. It's taken a really long time. There's good work to do. The media has not betrayed anything in this regard. The aims are very clear, work is to address the price insurance at the Minister's Committee and ask for them to appear at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u21	Mr. President. The enterprise has not achieved its goal on the insurance policy; that is the case. Also, the party has failed to reach its objectives on housing benefits; that is also mentioned, but it is not yet part of the council. Here we finally see a multi-engineered bill written by a welfare committee on a general apartment. That matter took three years. What is it that remains this long worm of the Future Party? Yes, there is a disorder in the administration home, that is the Independence Party that has opposed this matter. What, though, makes this matter that we have all been waiting for so far? That's a very simple explanation. This point has come to this processing level because the government has been determined to continue to clear the situation with the labor movement's strength. It is not because of the independence party or the forward party that the issue has come to this point, that is, the government opposition that has reached this point today. What then surprises me is to see that this is a completely different bill but entered the council. I don't remember seeing a bill come out of the council, and there's a ten - page motion change. I think it's because of the advance party. Councilmen of the government stand, especially Stingrimur J. Sigfússon and Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir vóttir, for the benefits and benefits of the case. It doesn't matter, Mr. President, that even though I'm celebrating this case, I'm afraid of how it will handle the already existing problem. According to the policy of this bill, 1,500 million are to be put. K. the four - year task, which means about 400 rented apartments a year. That's a good price. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does she believe that 400 apartments a year for four years solve the rent - out problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u22	V.E.G. President. As I told my story about this committee opinion, everyone has a why. Senators on the welfare committee thank you for the quality of your work on the bill. This is true not only of the members of the Commission but also of the circumstances. Senators of the Board of Overseers. Hv. A senator wrote that these bills were on the way a long time. This government has been in power for almost three years, but it must not be forgotten that a group of members has Össur. Skarphéðinsson I remember seven years in the government, and it didn't mess with these leases at the time. Wait a minute. So when a senator gives up criticism about slowness in these matters, he looks at his own self only.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u23	Mr. President. I'm not going to make comments to the field of attention of members of the council sitting in this room and asking questions directly, but I asked them why. A member of the council asked questions, and she used only half of her time to answer. Can I ask you a question? A senator about answering the question that I asked her about, which was perplexing and sincere. She was as follows: Senator that the policy on which the bill rests and the law if it remains, 400 apartments for four years, answers the problem, and is likely to solve it? I don't think that's the case, I think there's a lot more money to it. The other doesn't matter, Mr. President, that the advance party had four main issues regarding housing improvements and has not met any of them at all, not one. He promised 300 billion dollars in a head position. He made 72 billion. [[The president calls.]] That's what you could count for a long time. They're hauling the move to shore from the government position and ASI. He has done nothing to his own power, that is, the bitter fact. [[The president calls.]] But I'm glad that the matter has come here, and at any time, I'll take that class into my favor and try to help him in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u24	V.E.G. President. I'll be happy to answer that question. paritaprevir Acoustics, Skarphéðinsson's son. He asks if 400 apartments are enough. My answer is: 400 apartments a year, 2,300 apartments, such as this requested bill, are a significant step. I think it's a far greater step than being in the government for seven years and not being built on one single apartment. So I think it's a really big improvement in rent-making, but we've seen it for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator, a spokesman for the welfare committee, would like to make comments to one of the points she highlighted in her speech, especially at the end of the talk, that there is a second standard of housing that is now considered on the welfare committee, in some way an integral part of this bill. Materially, this is not the case. True, I'm aware that the government has promised the labour market people both a effort in the construction of social rent services and an added support to tenants. But if the facts of the matter are considered, the next tenants will have no loss with this new arrangement because no one will move, or at least. in the next loss based on this new arrangement. That's clear. Support to tenants from day to day, and although earlier, and the next loss, even if it becomes legal in the summer, will result in tenants living in existing homes or other rented rooms. It will take some loss to implement such plans and/or start planning that new societies, newly formed or others, can buy through this system, which would normally be the housing for the tenants at either time. If this is considered in a material way, it should be defined as the fact that rent support has its own independent value regardless of whether this bill will be approved or not or not, and vice versa. Of course, it has a value to get this bill going so that you can start the case, but it is wrong to set the case up so that it does not have the value of passing the bill, although the result of the rent therapy may be another one, and in fact, it does not matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u26	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for the counter, which may have been more a gesture and to what I said in my background. In accordance with the government's parties to the ASI workforce, there are two bills in this agreement, one of them is the bill we have for discussion here, and the other bill is the bill for housing. It is very important in my opinion that there is a bill that will be carried out, as this includes increased support for the parties in a tenet. Therefore, I feel very important that the Commission will continue to cooperate with the organization so far and try to contribute to the provision of the provision of housing reforms from the Committee, as there are some regulations that are not available in the existing tenure laws on family support. As I say, I just hope that there will be a solidarity inside. the welfare committee to complete that bill as well as we've finished it. That's a long time. All guests due to the case are closed. The next step is to consider the matter and try to start with a committee program because of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u27	Mr. President. I realize that people want to use the link to collective agreements to pressure the handling of these cases. As I mentioned, I understand her. She's there. But materially, it doesn't change how tall things are as I was. No one can argue with that. As a result, building the first apartments in the new arrangement will lose some people and will continue to become tenants in the country living in a rented house. It is also by the recording of the housing reforms, a system adjustment to the construction of housing improvements, that it will take at least six months after the legislation of the law to implement it, I'm not talking about any new enterprise. If you want to do something for your tenants, it's a matter of your own, and I've repeated discussions about this for all winter that raising rent payments would be the closest thing to making them up, so to speak with the results that may occur when the housing changes occur. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u28	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask says that it will take time, of course, to build a home according to a new law on public apartments. But I would like to point out and take advantage of the opportunity here in this brief answer to report that the law also includes buying used facilities and putting into this arrangement. I just want to reiterate it once more that it is important that good partnerships be done on housing benefits at that point. The welfare committee. What a joy it would be if we could see it in the light of the bill that now looks to light in the next few days or weeks!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u29	V.E.G. President. We in the United States have a complete mind to take care of this case and rejoice that it is finally becoming a reality. In my speech, first of all, I intend to review the Community housing policy, secondly the work force of the Commission in the process, third, the most important changes, fourth, the points that need to be considered between discussions and fifth, the points that I am not fully satisfied with, even though I pass it over at this stage of the issue. The union is closely associated with the labor movement in history, and housing has always been high on the outside. We know that housing is not just a major economic issue but the highest welfare issue involved in national housing. Thus, we believe that the government needs an effective entrance to the housing market to achieve the objective of ensuring the security of the entire country. In 2007, 2009, Jóhanna was the Sigurðardóttir of Social Affairs, and he was growing renters on extended interest. In the government where Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir led in the years following a collapse, they were witty. paritaprevir PállÁrniÁrnason What questions will be considered in the next article? paritaprevir The Guðbjartur Ministers of Social Affairs Hannesson. They had a lot of household work going on. The results of that work were suggested in 2011. Further work was needed on their grounds, which laid the groundwork for the labour market partners and the European Union for the development of a public tenet with the development of nonprofit organisations and a new framework for housing reforms that were to combine interest rates and housing as a single system. This government, as mentioned in the discussion, has been ruling for three years. At last, five years after these suggestions of the day, they are finally becoming reality. in this bill. It's a big bill, and we've worked a lot of work. I'm just gonna go over the workload so people can see the extent of it. We got, like, the first time we got a presentation from the Ministry on the case. Then we called in the reporters who had sent in the envelopes. There were quite a few of them. Then we asked for the Ministry's response to reviews and received them and sent a number of very detailed questions to the Ministry about things that we needed to consider. At that time, Analytica updated their calculations because they had defects. Then I'd like to state that the members of Social Relations, Social Services Schools, and Camp Credits funded us a great deal by setting up the criteria to be in order for a change of system to come out better for those renters, such as in the Social Services of students and Social Services. How grateful I am to them for their hard work, free of charge, and all the meetings they were prepared to attend and contribute to the success of the system! After we had reviewed it all, we made a number of adjustments. There are 34 of them, most of them improving, even though I'm not happy with two of them. Then I'd like to thank the chairman of the case for his hard work. She has been awakened and fell asleep in this case as well as in all the committees, and the members of the committee have worked hard to make peace and improve the situation so that we helped build a strong tenet and provide security for everyone. I would also like to thank the member of the committee who has worked on an enormously careful job and, of course, the committees are responsible for anything that might have taken over at work. But it was an enormous amount of work, as is meant to understand when such changes are being made. Then I'd like to put a few words into words about the changes I think are most important to make things right. It's not the technical process of processing. It's a point of dwelling on the market. I believe there is an increasing flexibility in social shape. The bill assumed that it was only a special form of self-employment, but we open the door to developing communities, private societies, or others who are their communities, in order to increase their flexibility. There's an exception where the Minister can provide special access, if for example. Housing unions want to create roommates for tenants. We believe that by doing so, we are increasing the likelihood that the strongest people in real estate will be involved with more initiative in the project and more apartments. Of course, the requirements are the same as these are only for those nonprofit partners. The objective of the bill was to rent no higher than the sensitivity of 203/425% of income, but it did not appear in the bill, and we put it in the law that this is the goal of it. This strengthens the position of those who are to live in that home and provides rent that reference in the Law text. This can also take into account changes in the housing system at any given time. Then we change rent decisions. There'll be more time to reduce rent if there's any money involved. It can then be balanced between areas, allowing more expensive areas to become less than equal because the rent between different units within the automatons. This is to increase social mixing and try to make more sure that housing will not be built on the cheapest areas. Then we'll add an additional donation on the basis of tenures that I'm not going to discuss in particular, which is a good law, but we'll also contribute to 4% from the state on account of rural housing, housing for students, and housing for disability. There's a reaction to the reviews and jobs of the parties I listed earlier, from Social Services, students' Social Services and Substitutions, and their calculations. We think it's important to keep it inside to make sure that the target of rent pay will be done. Then we made adjustments in the Housing Fund, so that the establishment of the state money will be paid, not directly into the government budget, but in the Treasure of Houses. This may be a long - term goal, but it will also result in a failure to reach 40,650 years until payment begins to enter the fund. According to the bill, it would have taken more time, but if any are given up and then change the purpose of the organizations they are built into, they have to repay the laids. Then they'll slip into the House's Treasure. The objective is a housing fund become self-sustained and that the state will produce its produce. But that is now decades into the future, and perhaps my grandchildren or grandchildren can lovingly reflect on us for having created a good system. But I hope this system will have become a powerful, exemplary system in a community where we want everyone to live in good housing and have a safe home. In terms of the Housing Fund, we came to a bit of trouble on the bill because the dance system is a model for this system. There, the budget is founded but not paid back, but it is later indirectly paid back into the House's Fund. Because of the debt of rural communities, they wanted to offer these interest - making loans, which do not carry them interest for 40,650 years, but then to start growing when paying on them after the payment of other loans that depend on the real estate has been completed. By doing so, the rural communities are able to establish this structure. This will not affect their debt. Since it is normal for the government to ensure its own interests, it is now authorized to demand that everything be paid back. It must then be shown when the founding industry is granted whether reimbursement will be required. If this is done, the budget will be restored in due course, but after that, it will continue to pay at Housekeeping Fund. That's even. making it possible for these companies not to raise too much of their own money, but to be encouraged to continue building up in the system. We lived there for an intermediate period, and the time must be determined whether that arrangement may need to be changed. The communities wanted to protect their interests by not borrowing 2nd mortgages. The National Association of Iceland and others pointed out that if it was legal, other housing financiers would view the risks as more important to them. This would disqualify the growth rate and work against the goals of the bill. So we didn't make any changes in the direction of the law. In the beginning, it was worried that by making contributions from their local communities, they would need to be owed to their peers, and as a result, their funds would not be at all in the laws of the law when they qualified. This alone would have a negative effect on the financing rate. This needs to be considered between discussions, but the National Association of Iceland has noted that the contributions can be made by surmounting loans so that the rural communities can attribute them, but the automation institutions that are to be built are capable of bringing these contributions into their own budget. There is a project that awaits us between discussions, and we will discuss it better with the 3rd. as we see the conclusions we make. Finally, I want to review the three things I would like to see in another way. However, I decided not to be on the committee's alert, since I believe that the committee worked very well together, we had to promote issues in order to make a joint decision, and I'm going to respect that compromise. I'm here to describe what I would have wanted to do in another way. First, it's the name, the public apartment. In Iceland we have the delusion that we believe there is something called a public rent. Hardly. rent is not a free market but in a very poor form. We've got the big money that's played without a profit plan. These include housing partnerships, community housing, student social services, academic architecture, Empress, the House Fund of the Corning Community. They are large organizations that, in fact, make up the real common rented market, for they are solid, not profit - oriented, but with long - term goals in mind. Then there are few companies on the free market. We don't know what they're going to be. Gamma and Homefield are the most proud of them, unions that have not worked long, and investment companies are primarily involved. We do not know when it will be convenient for them to sell their possessions. Then, of course, we have a number of people who rent apartments and are well owned, and often in very favorable terms, who, in exceptional cases, are living in security in such facilities because you never know when the owner will be suitable to leave the contracts to use or sell the home for another purpose. I think it would have been a lot of normal to just call it a local apartment. I'm beginning to love that name more and more, but there they shot in the prefix '-party to the apartment. I'm a socialist, I'm a socialist, I really like social. But Icelanders usually use society if it has to do with housing to mark it as a particular group. However, housing is not social in nature. The circumstances vary at different times. In harmony with this, different support is needed. As a result, I would have wanted to see the name unchanged and agree with the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs and the National Social Association of Iceland that this is a worthy name. Then there is another point that was discussed on the committee. According to the bill, there were income and property boundaries, you have to be below certain income and property limits in order to access the system. That's for the two lowest of the five. Then, once you're inside the system, you can only live there whatever your income and possessions will be. I think it's positive because it promotes social mixing, but then it's likely that, as economy progresses, people get older, i.e. Maybe there's young people in their relatively low income, and then they get older, and children grow up, benefit more, and then people go to another kind of house, so I don't think it's a problem. But it was your wish to change it within the committee, and we found a way to change it a little, so you can certainly live in your home, but if you make money over the income markets for three almanac years, you can count a strain on your rent. We noted that it should be moderated so that the change won't be large, short - tailed tax. I like the application of the change, even though I would have liked to see it without change. Finally, 1,500 million people are to be put in place. K. into this system for four years. The bill says it's 480 apartments a year, compared with 1,500 billion. There will be fewer apartments for changing requirements to calculate, whether or not there are 400 apartments, or 420, I won't say. It is estimated that there will never be more than 1,600 apartments and 1,500 billion. K. A year in four years does not cover 2,400 apartments, although the original text suggests that this is going to be 2,400 apartments. This is not enough apartments at all. But once the system is established, I believe that it will be a good system that will live here for the future. There's always money to be added. That's why we're gonna be in the United States using ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u30	Mr. President. I want to be like my associates on a welfare committee expressing satisfaction with the work of the Committee on this important bill. Of course, in the left movement, we are in line with our place in the political process of building a social solution system in housing, and we have contributed and fought for it, along with the handling of the problems of young people who need to get over their first residence. It is our foundation, so by itself we received this bill and were ready to work on it when it finally appeared almost three years in the seat of that government and a great promise. As the case documents indicate, the welfare committee put a huge amount of work into this case, and the government did not abandon it. This can be seen in the Commission opinion, a very detailed committee program, and in a document that is now under way for virtually every branch of the bill to be changed and a number of them are repetitious. The form is listed on a tenth page, and it reflects the much and careful work that the committee went through in this case and found needed, since I think that it was there, as I actually claimed in Genesis. Um, that unchanged the bill had completely lost its mark and failed to reach its purpose. It was already clear from the fact that the big active construction workers with social housing within their own video store today could hardly see fit to participate in the system unless they made fundamental changes compared to the bill. This has been done by a welfare committee. Of course, the objective of the bill is good and does not provide, such as the real estate market and the national housing situation, to increase the supply of rented housing for the affordable resources for the income of the community. The situation in housing calls for a special discussion, and I'm not going to waste my time on it here, although I feel that the Allied Council spent more time on less important things than this huge group and how powerful it is for the development of society. Of course, the fact that these issues are in unreaded, persistent readings for years keeps natural progress and development of Icelandic society. This contributes to the failure of young people to bet on the future in this country. That's how you could count it for a long time. Of course, this problem exists in both the capital area and the main urban area on the southwest corner, but also in the region, but in another form or in another context. There's a lot of housing problems around Iceland, but it's for different reasons. In the capital area, the problem is mainly a lack of housing, a warm market, and too high a price. However, in the country, the conditions are so low in value and far behind the basic cost of housing that people hold back from building new homes and taking the risks of the great difference between stock costs, construction costs, and retailing to the market. This results in the lack of housing and development potentials in many countries, because of the lack of housing available. Here in the urban area, the situation of young people and income - rich people is completely unacceptable in the pursuit of housing and housing costs. All that can be done to ease some of this problem, as I expect this case to do, you certainly try to help. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I believe that some of those who are in the General Assembly these days and weeks, talking about unsurpassed tactics could only take over the way the council has handled this huge matter. What is being said here in a tripolitic solidarity in a very sensitive language, where even the administrative groups themselves were significantly inconsistencies, as we know? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] We have been able to bring forward a great deal of work, huge work, to a well - being committee covering a political solidarity behind this issue. This can now be kept in mind when they're doing something for us here. [[Taken out on: right.]] Then the most important changes in this bill. First, I think it is very important that we approach the matter from the perspective of making large and strong members of the social housing market possible for the new system. We made the necessary adjustments. Because who would build in this system if social institutions in Reykjavík, the societal community center of students, the Emirates, the Compulsion Fund of the Organization, and other such have not been able to do so? That certainly had a powerful effect on the work, at least for the time being. in the one here, that this must be prepared so that we could follow through on the strength of the individuals we have and are reasonably strong. For one thing, for the sake of weeks in addition to the thought of renovating each building project for itself and leaving the rent there totally up to one stage within each year, as the bill's thought was. It would have killed it because these advantages were not acceptable for large, wide communities with large apartment collections and long history, in part to write down houses, and so the views of social mixing and equalizing rents depending on the incident, allowing it to be fairly reasonable in line with the facilities available. We changed the requirements of the so-called construction funds for the housing institutions, which will be expected to be then called to the maintenance fund. We agree that it is proper to recommend that the budget should be regularly put aside for repairs and reforms. But we do not think that it would be wise for them to let almost all their own money be placed in such a fund. They too need to grow stronger. That's why I think this is a good change that makes the system more sustainable. It has to do with the fundamental changes that we have given the government to accept, that the establishment of the State is maintained within the system forever and ever. When they come to reimburse the original financing loans, they go to Housekeeping Fund. There, it builds up a lot of social skills and the strength for the system. It builds up sooner than then, in a short period of 15 to520 years. Instead of the government's granting time to establish the budget, they will be reimbursed, and after an incident continues to produce new anti-species, this will move into the system itself to become self-sustained and self-sustained. Of course, we made changes that are very related to the target of the bill that rent prices or housing costs usually do not exceed a quarter to a quarter of the income of those involved. This is one of the goals of this operation. We want to bring it into the law ourselves, so it's clear. But we face the fact that these goals are very close. That the bill didn't matter, they wouldn't have. On the basis of the calculus that followed the Ministry bill that was employed by the Analytica Society, they were not in sight. It is quite clear that the rent would have been 301⁄240%, if not more, of their arrangements within the group if the loan had been only 30 years old, do not talk about it; and if not any, it might have been better with the earner within the group. As a result, we have taken care of this and have suggested that the weight of the loan time, the 70% that will be taken to finance what is lacking after the founding process, will be 50 years old. By so doing, I believe that we are more and less able to decide that the funding will be paid only in 50 years because, even if they take shorter loans, they will obviously be benefited in many cases in extending them and spending 50 years paying them back. This has a tremendous effect on the rent - reduction process. Second, we make the adjustment that we actually put back in a suggestion at work but fell overboard, allowing 4% of stock to be added from the state when building for the low income in the countryside, students, and desperate ones. And, very important, this addition is irreversible. It is a direct contribution that, therefore, brings good results and is of great value because money is immediately involved in the construction or buying of the apartment and that does not have to be borrowed, no interest in paying from it, and it will never be demanded again. It is similar with the measures we take in the bill to open up the possibility that this will benefit people in the country, in the most difficult areas. They're in places where there's no housing and there's a lot of places, to be honest. Even in media communities that have been known for their problems, they still need housing for reasons that are numerous, including that there has been virtually no building in many areas of the country for 30 years. There is a desire to have a vacation home, and some of the housing is thus carpeted. It is a competition with increasing tourism that takes over some of this house. But the main reason is, of course, that it is such a risk to build an apartment and borrow for it, or take responsibility for it, if it is a constructionor or a rural society, knowing that market prices may be half the stock market, that it is not put on loans, and that funding is, of course, difficult and expensive under these circumstances. Therefore, we suggest that the state is permitted to add up to 6% of its population and the rural population 4% to its own areas in such areas, without rent housing, little is built, problems with financing, and conditions in the real estate markets. It is also put in place that the Substitution Fund has the authority to look specifically to the local authorities when selecting from applications and setting priorities for those who are to be paid if more than money is applied. Then we have in mind, for example. Basis where there is clearly a water supply and will lack considerable housing in the years ahead, but no one will trust to build it unless he is able to receive any such support, so that it would not have the capacity to build. For example, consider such situations as south of the West, where there is now a great deal of structure around fish farms and a need for housing. Then it is national, social, and local wisdom to look to it. Let me remind you, then, that these changes are of vital importance in trying to keep up the goal of not going over a fifth to a quarter of your income. Other measures are in effect done on our part to try to ensure this, such as not agreeing to the local community's wishes that the foundation will be imposed on or on the mortgage in front of the apartment's foundation. It would weigh on the funding, and that is why the communities and the state will have to contribute to that and wait patiently on other mortgages and interestlessly until the original loans have been paid back. This is, in effect, the personal support because of the conclusion that the founding contributions were not voluntary but, by their very nature, a sizable loan, or a second loan without interest, support is, in effect, the key factor being brought forward as funds or by half of the community's members in the form of property or paybacks. As a result, they reduce what needs to be financed and borrowed to 70% or even more, and they patiently wait without interest while the other loans are paid up. Only a maximum of 70% of the value of the property being built or bought can be obtained. This should ease the unions greatly by means of financing and insurmountable benefits. The poor have said, however, it is quite clear that new societies without a significant amount of money from owner's property will have to make a great deal of money getting financing and getting started. Of course, a situation where there is a healthy partner is much stronger in these areas. As we are making changes in their interest to the bill, I have become optimistic that they will offer a relatively favorable funding for their share in a building in this new system, and they are well. Then I'd like to mention the 18th floor. The bill I was very upset with, as it was presented, and it did to 1st. serious comments to It stressed the most practicality and then spoke of the need to be so acceptable to those living in it. There was little ambition in that expression. I couldn't accept it, and I immediately declared to the welfare committee that I would never accept it this way. It will not be in Iceland in 2016 that we begin to give a substantial discount on the quality of the housing that the government is going to help the nation's income - poor people to get into. It will not be. Hence, we threw out everything that could refer to some form of capitalism and put it into place that the apartments would meet the needs of time and would also look for future consequences. Do we, then, have the changed national dating in mind, i.e. that the apartments other than those built for students in their limited lives should take into account that the nation is getting older and that we want men to grow up in their homes and live in their homes and to be helped there if they need it. This is how it will be. There are very good changes and very clear policy measures on the part of the Generals. Then, of course, there are many more dignified presidents to glean. The fundamental change in the establishment of the state's donations is to enter a Homing Fund and build it up is of utmost importance. Instead, it led us to throw out some county fees that would be charged with $100. on a four - foot [3 cm] apartment and reduce that portion of your partner's rent income after paying off the loans and stock money or stock contributions that were to be taken up to the living room or two - thirds of them to 40%. It means that once they are in their lifetime, the money also grows to the point where they have paid off their first investments and are benefiting from the loss of housing or the debt that gives them income from renting out. It's important that both parties become self-sustained in the system, the budget and the Housekeeping Fund. That's the way it needs to be. It is not wise to act in such a way that, for example, it is not wise to do so. The housing fund alone builds up, but the campers, the owners, are on toast. That's why I think that's where we're suggesting a change that's really good. It is hoped that the next few thousand apartments will be built, and this will bring about a slight, unacceptable situation, a real estate market, or housing market throughout the country. Sadly, though, for example. Like real estate prices have become difficult in the capital area. When it became clear that four squares of the calculations were completely unrealistic, some 274 measures were made. K. on a square foot [50 square m] apartment in the capital area when the real score is nearly 400 of you. K. It's going to be less than if it's 14 million. K. 20 million. K., right? Therefore, despite the changes we are making, the goal is that about one fifth to one quarter of the amount of money we earn is very close. But we must hope for the best. Now, no human will be able to move into a recently built apartment on the basis of public social services until 2018, 2019 at best. So this does not come in the sense of having a major impact on the market until two, three years later. It must also be the government's going to bite its sweet apple with it. That does not mean ignoring the facts. Sadly, because of the 37th grade, buildings have been reduced. a law on housing has not been established by laying aside funds to provide GDP loans. Nevertheless, I hope that this is the basis for a system that will be useful to Iceland and especially to those who have low income resources. There's a lot to do for that. That's why I'm proud of the changes we're making, happy with the job on the welfare committee, and I hope that you will remember with affection later in life to have helped to get this thing started. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u31	A respectable president. We'll talk about 2. The Committee's opinion of a standardized bill. As with other members of the welfare committee, I would like to emphasize that while not everyone was content with the review of the bill, members of the Committee have been able to do both a lot of work, a great cooperation, and compromise, to complete this mission and enter it into the Council of II. In what form it is. I also want to allow myself, a respectable president, to mention the secretary of the Committee, Gunnlaugur Helgason, who has been awakened and fallen asleep over the changes here, to make strong and good comments, and with her legal education, we were often led on the right path, but we may have been on the right path. You see, without those who work with us at the council, there is very little to be gained. So I think there's a reason to say this. In fact, it is remarkable that they have made a parapolitic agreement of as large and as extensive as this one. I want to say something. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfusons, it would be fine if those in the field who believe that there's nothing well done here, at times thought of the big words that have been passed on to this institution. This work of the welfare committee and the representatives of all the different classes that have a seat shows black and white that if you have the will, you can do a good job. A respectable president. The bill is designed to lay the groundwork for a new cab spray system and should be taken care of by the earners. The rent should also be in accordance with the income and property criteria that are met by those entering that system. It is of utmost importance, as discussed here, that the building of a building that will be built in the way suggested here meets the general design requirements, that this is not an attack on the construction of less poor apartments than for others who live in their apartments. I want to stress it, and I'm happy with the changes made on page 18. The bill. It is also important to mention at the outset that I believe that the change the committee made on the bill that non-employee institutions can enter as members of the building of this kind is the good thing. The knowledge and benefit of those partners who have worked in this sector, and in what is called a ◯non program, a channel is guaranteed by granting them permission in the bill to come in here. That is where we can name social clubs. We can name the students. We can name Brumes. The bill also discusses how housing partners, which we provided a fine bill on earlier during this council, can come in the same way as developing and working with rural society. I think there's a reason to mention this because it's gonna matter. I also warn of too much optimism, a respectable president, because there's nothing going on today or tomorrow. But here we have authority for rural society and the state to provide 30% stock to reach members who want to go into this area and build houses that meet the requirements set up and meet the criteria we have set for those to live there. However, it has to be acknowledged, a respectable president, that this newly formed statement, the complete separation, would suggest that there would be something here called a housing automaton, now a tiny tongue crash, while the abbreviation hses, which you say, is immediately much thin mouth, and hopefully rather adheres to this form. So, instead of saying that it's a new thing, a housing agency, we simply say hosses, and should be more private and comfortable. The bill takes over governments, councils, construction funds, and so forth, that's good. This included a set of gender rates in social management. It's a bit remarkable, a respectable president, that when it's clear in the law how governments should be appointed, we still need to keep it at the tip and that we still have to put it in particular because it's not up to us. It is absolutely clear, most respectable president, that while it is not specified, gender is not taken into account. It is also worth noting that in the bill, representatives of the council are expected to represent those living in the facility. I think it's good. Then there are some suggestions on how governments and councils should operate and who may become managers, etc., and I think that's all that is good. A respectable president. Regarding the change here for the transition to Article 19. as it was in the bill for a rent level decision, it is of great importance that hses can watch their possessions wherever they are located, say in the capital area, whether at the Grand or in Central or Easttown or wherever, and the rent level is the same as it can be moved, so when a new house is built in any particular place, the rent level will be higher. I consider this to be a very important, respectable president, if the main objective of the bill's destination is to be met. The system is for those who are earners, and this needs to be equal to rent payment and not an imbalance between rent hills depending on where the apartment is located. I take an example from the capital area where rent prices are known to be higher in one place than in another. We do not think this bill so that some special location will not have an apartment of this type for a profitier place. They are to be distributed far and wide around their communities wherever they are located in the country. Then we come to something else that has also been made a subject, and before my time I could not agree. I'd like to thank my members for participating in the legal adjustment proposal made here that has to do with the level of rent. For example, when you enter the facilities that are being discussed here, certain income and property goals are set out, and the rent height is determined. Later, if the person reaches a higher income group, he gains considerably higher income than the system's entrance, he was thinking that the person should be able to live in the apartment if he did so without any rise in rent. To me, then, the prerequisite for the initial loss of the objective was that the system was built for those who were earners of money. So the change is made, and I thank my members again, and this is an example of the compromise that the members of the committee have obtained on the bill and make it available for us. The committee proposes on the 19th floor. to increase the income of the individual and of the excess income and property limits remain continuous for about three years, authorized by a minister to calculate rent stress. I think it's a good compromise. People have talked about this as social mixing. It is fine if we are generally able to achieve it in one way or another, but those who make more money pay a higher price. A respectable president. Also, it is important to mention those who are going to be involved in the initiatives of this country, in cooperation with rural society and the state, that there must be an agreement between their 12% member society before the government grants its approval for 18%, in order to be clear. If your community does not, it will never be able to decide on 18% of your contribution. The groundwork is that the communities agree first and then the state follows. However, as applications for a donation to the State arrive, and in the bill it is expected that the camp loan fund will be cared for for, of course, prior to granting the State's contributions where the greatest need is for building such apartments and handling the state's budget, the strain, should be guided. This is never to be the case. It's just to think that it would be good to do this without asking where the need is most urgent. I also believe that there is a reason to mention what others have mentioned that in the bill and the changes provided here are suggestions for 4% of the extra stock initiatives and up to 6% extra supply when it comes to certain factors such as students and disability and areas where there is a great demand for housing, but few put into building the unique state of property markets and across the country where the cost of building is much higher than the actual retail of such housing. I think it's a well-cost, and it's gonna matter. It was also a well-founded and good and, in fact, fundamental change of government position, or perhaps not a fundamental change, in terms of the establishment of the reinvestigated or authorized reimbursement, that the State in its own way agreed that 18% of the contributions would be paid in Housing Fund instead of the state's funds to increase the sustainable budget in the first place. Then the rural communities may wonder when it comes to reimburseing their requests or requests. I'm gonna pass by at the moment and in this speech, a respectable president, I'm sure it'll come when we discuss the bill at 3. ..., to discuss it in detail, but a comment has been made from the German European Union of Iceland that if the local communities have access to the founding industry as well as to the possession of the stock industry, it can't be attributed to hss if we can call it that way, and then the company may be more difficult to get credit at a good wage. I'd like to agree, a respectable president, even though I'm not there to say that I'm going to agree with this All-American Union statement, that the committee takes the case into account between 2 and 3. And look at this. The fundamental issue here and now is that the bill, with the changes it has been made, achieves and becomes law-enforcement and can be used to work on it. Hence, this comment from ASI, a respectable president, has to be settled and considered rather late. It has been discussed that this bill should now have appeared four years ago, and even five years ago, or a god, know when, and then, once the committee is printed, this ASI comment will come on the last record on the possession of rural society and state. But we will look at it. A respectable president. In fact, in today's discussion, people have allowed themselves to discuss that this or the other one is thanks to the others or to these others, I am not referring to the situation. Committee members, and this bill will be legal through government opposition. With all due respect for the great air support committees in the management position, the debate is that we're in charge - because these spears have been more often but not directed to the Independence Party and its members on the Committee - we haven't worked faithfully on this project and wanted to prevent it, totally out of control. The position that the bill is made with the changes presented here due to the cooperation of members of the welfare committee. I'd like to let myself say something like that. 4th, including - No, now I'm not gonna say it, a respectable president, like a good shot. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon, that I'm just gonna be a little happy that I've shared in doing this project in the form that we're on the welfare board here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u32	Mr. President. First, I'd like to wish for the Committee and her co-star, please. paritaprevir Elisa Lára Arnardóttir, and the chairman of the Committee, Sigríður Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir, congratulates on this bill. I'm not going to take the subject of the bill. I'm going to ask why. A senator, who actually left the hall, into the bill's headline, but the senator has left. I want to ask you why. A senator why they suggest the adjustment that this bill will be called a bill for a public apartment. [[I'm here.]] Why do people suggest that it has its name?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u33	A respectable president. I thought you were. 1st. That's the north side. I'd just be in a speech. But the question he's pointing to me is, why is it called a common social apartment? The answer is that a general packaging is a general container. There are no special apartments built according to the system set up here. It's a social apartment. They are directly related to the idea of the construction site in the past. The committee agreed, and it's this complicated compromise, okay? 1st. That's the north side. , to call this general social apartment in the same way that we had to mention what was called the general living society, but we now call a housing center, short - lived hses. That's why they call it a common social apartment, i.e. to define exactly what is involved in the objective of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u34	Mr. President. That's not good enough for me. I think it's a station or an independent party statement. I don't think it sounds that good enough. I don't know how a general apartment and a social club can go together. This is either a social apartment or a general apartment. Aren't social apartments general, like what else? I want to know more about what's going on. A senator explains why they need to be known as a general social apartment. Why don't they just call them a general apartment, just for the public, like everything else we do? Then why isn't it just a social apartment? Why don't people turn this into it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u35	A respectable president. Now it's good to be able to come here and say that this is not a suggestion by independents alone, although they have had the opinion that the bill should not be called a bill to legalize general apartments. paritaprevir An Kjerúlf daughter of the Þorvarðardóttir of Chehron, who spoke of the fact that that that name could not work because it was a different form of an apartment than a general apartment built on a free market, and people buy or rent. Hence, the idea of separating and identifying the materials had to be defined in exactly what were hidden. There were some ideas, including... general stock supplyer. That's not nice. It could not be referred to as a general apartment because a public rented is also on the free market and is not familiar with the system around here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u36	Why not just a general apartment?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u37	Hv. one who asks, "Why not just general apartments? " This is because there is a distinction between what is here and what is different, i.e. A rented apartment is being built for busier people, but the normal general population is based on free markets. This is the conclusion of the Commission, a general social apartment, and the housing institutions, short-term hses.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u38	V.E.G. President. At last, we will discuss the local bill, the planned bill, the shape of a bill that has been built for a long time and is waiting for a long time. So it is with a measure of joy that one stands here to discuss in this matter. I don't think there was anything wrong with the four of them. Senators who were before me spoke first because I don't think anyone has a nap. The General welfare committee that they are the people who have borne the heat and weight of this case and have been awakened and slept at the risk of causing the matter to go through. Many have complained about the time in which this has taken place. I don't completely agree with that. It was true that in the early stages when the bill was introduced to the welfare committee by members of the Ministry of Health that there had never been any more consultation on the bill than this. It struck me well as a new senator to begin with how extensive and long the reviews were about the bill, and perhaps because of the tremendous consultation. But this has been shown in the matter of why. senators who have spoken here, such as harew. paritaprevir The Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and Ingadóttir Ingibjörg Ingistvedóttir, director of the welfare committee, had to make a big difference. It is natural to say that when changes are made to ten pages, they were revised to make the most of it, making it practically bulletproof. It seems that there is a conclusion that the bill is almost bulletproof, which is tremendously joyous. Especially is it true that all members of the committee are on a committee program. I think it's a tremendous achievement in as much a matter as it is. Hv. Elders who have held this discourse before show that there are ways to do things when there is a willingness to do and cooperation is good. I must say, though there may be nothing particularly appropriate, I'm just proud to be part of the committee that helped resolve these matters. I also mention other matters because we have taken care of earlier in winter affairs regarding the local housing community. These are one of the biggest issues established by the current government, i.e. It's the housing business. It is also part of collective agreements that make it necessary for those countries to make peace and to have a great deal of cooperation and harmony. Now they have been through the bill and the changes it has made. I'm not going to get caught up in it because I don't have the same knowledge as they do. But I agree with everything they've said. The first was the identity change, and there was a considerable discussion with the committee. To me, it doesn't matter what this bill is called, for me, the objective is. I'd like to quote a few comments from the National Association of Iceland, ASI, which wasn't very long. They were naturally concerned about how much rumors came in their time, but their comments were only one page, and with the permission of a president, I would like to read them only: ▪ TV is the product of extensive consultation. It rests basically on the policy that the UN set out in the autumn of 2012 and introduced and implemented in the leading of the last total election. The bill is further a factor in the management of the Iceland Government to facilitate the implementation of collective labour market agreements, as per the Government Declaration of May 28, 2015. Its growth is also an important part of the global solution that the labour market is looking for at a review of collective agreements and that has to be completed in the first weeks of the year. ASI gives high priority to the fact that with this bill, it is laid an important foundation that, in time, there will be a large number of socializations in the form of apartments for low income and income loads of rent money when foundation loans have been reimbursed that will be sufficient to ensure the funding of new apartments to meet the needs of new generations. And ASI strongly supports the progress of the case. This is the goal that has been set up, and this is a tremendously noble and good goal because, as we know, the situation in Iceland is very bad. It is the same as mentioned earlier in the Sermon on the Mount in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's almost crazy. Also, the goal is, which may be such a sub-target, but perhaps the primary objective, that people can rent apartments and not more than 20How25% of income goes into it. It's a very noble goal. You don't have to look far beyond your limit to find out what the situation is on this market for young people who are at work in life. I've got a daughter who'll pay 40 to50% of her provisions for rent. It's completely crazy. That's why it's a great, important bill that we're about to agree with in the next few days. I agree with all those who have spoken here and talked about it. This is a very good bill that will hopefully lead to a great deal - what to say, that there will be a much better situation in Iceland. This is the key to meeting the needs of young people. I said I didn't mean to--I've often said it when I've been asked about these matters; actually, I haven't been asked much of the reporters about the case because a single mind has been on the committee to work well and not to express myself much about it until it's quite possible, but I still have a lot of concern about housing and this system because we live with the Icelandic cow. I would also like to quote a economicist who wrote an article in the January 12 News magazine. Þröstur Ólafsson is his name, economist, and he says, by permission of the President: ▪ Don't forget Katli's Ketill, when discussing the unpleasant circumstances for young educated people to settle in Iceland. In this regard, I refer to the Icelandic crown, who has received the most honorary contribution from the prime minister [them] to be the world's strongest currency. There is no special achievement to a currency owner who is nowhere available outside his country, remaining reasonably stable. That's what the oceans are for. Despite this complete isolation and protection, a dollar will have to grow to the limit so that it can handle the task, to keep inflation under control. Also, the currency lords do not prevent many different gangs from being on the crown. Then he lists the various gangs. He also says, with President's permission: Apparently, no part of the Icelandic economy has spent more than a dollar in Iceland. She's the one who makes it hard for young people to live here, though they have a job. It is so dreary and expensive, whether it is unconvinced or incompetent. She's out of all the homes she's got dead. This is the concern I have for housing in Iceland, that's $2.00, because it's almost dead here. I hope, with the sincere hope and wish that the bill will in the long run may be the beginning and the key to a good housing system in Iceland where young people see the reason to live here and where you don't see the more part of the provisional items going to rent and as the situation is today. Once again, I want to thank the Committee, the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir The Sigríður of Ingibjörg's Ingadóttir, and especially to the pilot, who. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Eagledottir, who apparently has done an amazing job as an executive in the case. It is difficult to be a new senator and to face such an enormous challenge. She's solved it in a brilliant way, I say. Then I'd also like to mention, he's been mentioned here before, our committee writer, Gunnlaugur Helgason, who has been an incredibly patient and abstinent in this work and has done an amazing work. More important, he has offered practical suggestions, provided adjustments, and provided counsel. As I mentioned at the beginning of the talk, the four members of the council were the ones who spoke here at first the heat and the weight. They deserve everything. I'd like to finally say, Mr. President I'm proud to have participated in this work. My contribution may not have been too much on the subject of change and other matters, and it will only be devoted because I do not have as much knowledge of this as many others do, and I am not ashamed to share it with you. But sitting in the middle of a month and doing this work has been a precious school. But most proud of all, we did this together and show people that this is a good job, despite many wanting to mean other things. The committee, at work, was a monogamy, and it was a wonderful privilege to be part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u39	V.E.G. President. I'm not really coming back. I'm just saying thank you. A senator for beautiful words toward us members of the committee. I believe the welfare committee is an extremely well-organized group. The whole political spectrum, while all members of the Committee want to work hard and reach common conclusions if at all possible, is a highly cooperative member of the Committee. Of course, we cannot agree on all matters or on our journeys, but we strive to work hard so that the conclusion will be acceptable to most people. I thank all members of the welfare committee, especially why. paritaprevir Páll Björnsson's son, who here spoke, certainly contributes to that spirit of cooperation. As noted in his case as well as what he had. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon has been running for president of an old politician who is concerned about the situation at the General Assembly. It may be that while most other members of the United States have been selected here because people rely on them just to work hard on important and important social issues, they are a member of their minions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u40	Mr. President. I can say with what. A senator in this regard. I'd like to use this opportunity to say that here's just a bunch of senators who all want to put forth effort. We live in a difficult system of government, where the European Commission has always been too strong. It was so clear that the Aldus Research Committee reported on what we could do to change this, but unfortunately it has not changed. I can say for a moment, though. A member of the committee is working for good people who are doing all they can to solve the situation successfully. Now I'm going to stop because it's starting to look like you're on a Oscar Prize, but it's okay. It can be done at the Council as well. We are human, and we are exerting ourselves, and I thank you again and again.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u41	A respectable president. Yes, it can be a joy at the Council. For us on the welfare committee and doubtless more members of the Parliament, this is a very large day and is a reason to celebrate and be happy. You should be happy when you're doing well, and the result is good. Most people want to have their own home at some point in their lives, but there will always be the group that cannot or does not want to have their own home. Icelandic housing markets are very difficult today, both in pay and in rent. The social data produced by The Habitat regularly provide us with practical evidence for the well - being of Iceland. They show that a large percentage of those under the low income limits in this country are on rent. The largest groups are low - income individuals, and single parents and their children are single - parent families. A new government housing policy is useful, including the U.S. These groups. Government groups are consistent in their conclusions that housing is needed to be improved. In the summer of 2013, the General agreed on a ten - team action plan. It was to deal with domestic debt problems by correcting the mutant mortgage and allowing the opportunity to use the special property to subsidize the head seat of the mortgage. The programme also aims to increase the stability and transparency of housing markets and to work on the future structure of housing, including rented improvements. The objective of the government parties is clear: We are going to improve the interests of the citizens of the country, not just the landlords, but all the homes. In the spring of 2013, a contract started with four prime signals on housing matters. Extensive consultations were made with stakeholders. The labour market partners have proposed a statement relating to the collective agreements last seen. It contains important aspects of housing, but the contribution of the government to their agreements was, including, to make sure that the houses of poor people would be no more than 20 to 25% of the homes of the homes of their homes. The bill we're discussing now, the general camp bill as well as the provisional bill, which is not now being discussed, is, in fact, part of both the government's agreement with the labour market body because of collective agreements. Thus, in terms of collective agreements, the work that is being done on the cover of the core but that it takes time for this work to take place because of the extent and complexity of it. The key point is to achieve common goals, i.e. to improve the housing market in Iceland so that everyone can live in a safe and comfortable home. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson read here from the reference to the German Union of Iceland, which was very clear. I'm not going to repeat it, but that's where it comes from. until, by permission of the President: The progress of the [programm] project is also an important part of the overall solution that the labour market is looking for at a review of the labour agreements and that must now be completed during the first weeks of the year and that strongly supports the development of this case, as noted. Iceland's Human Rights Office also sent a review of a local bill, which says, by permission of a president: Since the above bill is celebrated, the program here is considered to be a necessary step in handling the problem of rent renting. tenant prices have increased so much during the last loss, from beat to the end of all pay development, and this has resulted in the lack of housing and renting, much less buying property. The bill makes it easier for those who have little income, including older citizens, microplies, and immigrants to live under decent conditions. For information, there were many references. I counted more than 200 pages when I reviewed the evidence again last night, so it's been finished enough. Most of the comments were very positive, but some made comments that the committee has, of course, taken into account in their work. According to this, there is absolutely no need for a changed system, and the willingness to change the current system is also there. That's good. But continue. For a period of time, a well - versed committee has now discussed the four primes. We were hoping to take care of it much sooner than that, but because of the magnitude of the situation, we, as members of the committee, have the need to take the time to review each point of the four prime project. And it is not done with others, as they say. We are actually building a new housing system, and it will not be done at the council in just a few weeks, although a extensive consultation has been made for two years before the Committee received prime coverage. One of four primes at the top. The minister of housing, the Eygló Harðardóttir, the Homemate's bill has already been set up at the General Assembly. It is aimed at strengthening housing partnerships, transparency in their operations, increasing the rights of the population, and promoting greater population democracy within the partners. Conspiracy was on the side of that matter. I'd also like to briefly explain the contents of the bills that have not yet entered the Hall of Congress but are currently being treated regularly. The welfare committee. There are prime messages of previously mentioned housing and rent payments. The bill for repair of housing involves an enormous amount of support to tenants. Thereby, family size is increased and supported. The amount of support between different habitats is being balanced so that individuals and families have real options for living. That bill is actually the other part of the standard apartment bill. These two bills play together. If the General doesn't complete both the bills during the current council, the goal of the bill will not be reached, i.e. that the tenant wouldn't give more than 203/425% of his rent provisional teats and that would be the basis for collective agreements also smiling. This cannot be done, and it is in the hands of our senators to handle these matters as quickly and safely as possible. However, the bill of a change in rent law includes increased rights of tenants and landlords. That bill also helps to clear up issues that have taken place in contracts over the past few years. Actually, the current law is being trimmed only to the rhythm of time. It seems that there is a clear agreement that these improvements are needed and, in general, a positive for the change in rents. Mr. President. After a fairly long entrance, I finally come to discuss the available bill, i.e. bill number one. The Eygló Hardydóttir's Harðardóttir on a general apartment. Since it was part of a larger body, I thought it was important to spend a considerable amount of time in the entrance to shed light on the context of the objects. A bill to fix a general apartment contains a basis for a new tenet - a - mile - a - day model. Governments and rural communities provide a total of 30% building contribution of 2,300 apartments this year, and the next three years around the country. A country's contribution will be 18% of the local stock market and may consist of direct financial contributions or wax payment. The contribution of a member of the country becomes 12% of the stock market and may include direct financial contributions, distribution of weights or a decrease or a fold in expenses. The funds may be reimbursed when loans have been paid, but reimbursement should be used to support the development of more private apartments if necessary. A new type of self-employment institutions, called general housing companies or the general social services, will keep a tight grip on these general areas of living. It is also expected that due unions in rural areas will be permitted to establish a set of conditions. It will be permitted to provide agriculture to create apartments for those to whom they have legal obligation to provide solutions for housing. In the bill, it is recommended that pay from the owners of general apartments go to the new Housekeeping Fund. The plan is that, as the process progresss, the fund builds up more purchases or housing buildings and thus the public social systems become a sustainable, closed system. Then we're talking about a few decades ahead of time, but it's very important. The camp is for tenants under certain income and property limits, but it is designed to include people in the lowest of five. The goal is that people can live in a secure home and that expenses will not exceed 203/425% of their income. However, it is not expected that people will have to move from their apartments to exceed their income and possessions. Hv. The head of the welfare committee, anyway. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir, was very careful about that point in his speech, i.e. The income and property limits and what the committee added. I'm not gonna repeat that. I would especially like to address some of the committee's opinion, which, in fact, is a very large figure, which makes sense. For fun, it may be easy to do so. Steinunn In the General Assembly's public Þóra, Steinni Árnadóttir once remarked that the circumcised minister's residence products would hardly be listed in the pages. Rather, we would need to talk about a cubic meter or a square inch in that topic. She's got a point. First, I'd like to discuss specific points relating to the root concentrations presented in Article 13. The bill. The Union of Icelandic rural society pointed out that unchanged bill carries a national and rural risk because the cost of generalisation exceeds the estimated value of stocks according to a build-up application, as stock making is expected to be targeted at real resources. In order to limit this risk, the Commission proposes to prove to be a final value higher than an application proposed to provide stock supply at estimated stock prices. This also includes increasing motivation for candidates to be able to work on the stock market and keep costs within the budget. Calculations submitted to the committee indicated that it would be necessary to meet the tenants in the worst way if their rent was usually not to exceed a quarter of the income. Reykjavík's financial office pointed out that in front of the work of the bill, there was an additional 4 percent advance from state to state for rural housing. The committee suggests that up to 4 percentage points will have to be added to the development of rural apartment housing and an apartment building for students or microdoers. Where there is special support, the committee suggests that there is no reimbursement on loans. It's a very important thing that the Committee spent a lot of time fixing the bill. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, J. Sigfússon's Steingrímur considered that point in his speech. It's very convenient to be so back on the rosary, you can only quote the others. But there is a very important factor to meet these social groups by extension. I'm very pleased with that change. The Commission covered a wide range of views, depending on the persistence of the market market market in certain areas of the country and on how to balance the facilities for groundmaking. It was noted to the committee that in some parts of the country, there was a lack of rented houses that would be difficult to deal with without borrowing. This should especially apply when considering property would be very low or market - priced and creditors would be reluctant to lend mortgages. In the worst cases, it may even be impossible to finance rent camps, despite 30% of the estate produced by state and rural areas. In view of these indications, the Commission suggests that housing loans will be permitted to provide up to a further 6 percentages in these areas where rent houses are scarce and apartment buildings have been reduced because of this market failure. As an exception, there is a possibility that the committee will expect only new ones when 30% of stock supply is expected to be inadequate. The committee suggests a parallel shift of 16. the creation of rural society. The sources, however, will be independent. Thus, whether the other party does or does not, it will be permitted to make additional contributions. However, the committee suggests that there is a difference between the sources that no reimbursement of additional Kingdom contributions may be required after loans are paid. This includes a special community support from a state. I'm very welcome to an extra 6 percentage points. This is an important factor in making the bill better for all the people of the country, in any market area they may live in. It shouldn't matter. Several reviews and members of the Committee criticized that half of the establishments of a state in the form of a direct contribution were to be paid out when applying, in which, due to the increase in risk to the State and the risk of abuse. Similar criticism was found regarding the development of rural society. On the contrary, the arrangement helped finance general apartments and reduces the need for expensive home loans, which should be returned to lower rents. In view of possible abuse, the Commission points out that the Substitution Fund is used to monitor citizens of general apartments. Misuse can be punished, referred to in paragraph 27. The bill and the general penalties. So the committee does not suggest a change in this regard. Regarding the basis, the committee felt that it was urgent to make some adjustments to Article 15. the bill that discusses applications. So the committee suggests that the Substitution Fund will be allowed to look to the based basis for evaluating stock donations. It still strengthens the basis of the bill. It could, for example. We mean if there was a shortage of rented houses in the community for cleaning. The building grounds also consider whether to provide additional contributions due to housing in areas where rent houses are scarce or special difficulties in financing. I'm going to stop these things, i.e. The stocks and contributions. I wanted to establish only the points discussed by the committee regarding the decision of rent height and social mixing. One of the objectives of the bill was to ensure social mixing. We certainly don't want a bandage in some sort of class and to have some kind of conception, if you don't mind me saying so. We wanted to find ways not to. We did our best, and I'm going to grab a little down on the committee opinion. In the 1st and 2nd verses of the 1st issue. Twenty-niner. the bill is reserved to be rented for general apartments, i.e. strains over a 12-month period. The committee stated that this law was intended to make the rent more predictable. The tenants could be confident that rents did not increase because a general apartment society attacked the development of new and expensive housing, and tenants in less expensive neighborhoods did not have to pay down tenants in more expensive neighborhoods. There was also evidence that the divorce was limited to the risks of private living partners, since determined steps would not result in the failure of the entire budget. The divorce took considerable criticism. It was noted that if the owners of the apartment were unable to make use of rents of older and inflated apartments to support payments on new apartments, new apartments could be rented very high. It would also be a matter of righteousness for tenants to pay similar rents for similar apartments. It was then noted that the equation of rent price disappears as part of social mixing. If the owners of public apartments were forbidden to pay rents in less expensive neighborhoods to support rents in more expensive areas, the tenants would be too high for low - income tenants. Owners might thus be forced to keep apartments only in less expensive neighborhoods. This would help to prevent social mixing. The committee does not believe that the equation of rent prices between private apartments belongs to the same person carries the risk of significant rent prices. The committee even feels that she can reduce the cost, so it would be possible to face fluctuations at the expense of some apartments with rent incomes from others. Also, the committee is not able to see that the separation will limit the risk of the owners of the apartments, as it does not neutralise their responsibility for their own apartments and their loans. On the other hand, the committee agrees to present some criticism of the separation. Thus, the committee suggests that there will be an elimination of the separation arrangements and a decision to make rents will be more flexible. I see my time is running out, and I can't get deeper into it, but I know there are more senators on the rosary that may possibly. There are other factors involved in this massive bill. I want to do as my associates on a welfare committee have already done, to thank you for a particularly good cooperation. There is no sanctimonious thing on this good day, as it is, that is true. Whether in control or opposition, all of us have done our part. It didn't matter to our work, and I can speak for all of us. We shared in the search for solutions, and we tried to find compromises. [[The president calls.]] We agree that we have a strong bill that I hope we can complete in our therapy as early as possible to improve the housing market in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] Surely, it is time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u42	A respectable president. Here is a bill for the legal discussion of general apartments from the Department of Social Affairs. The bill was part of the contracts of a general labour market last autumn, one of the most important elements of their contracts. As noted in the case of many members of the Parliament, the completion of the bill has been very consistent, and many good talks have been given and deeply discussed. I'm not going to repeat all of what has been said here, but I feel that the goals and standards of these laws are set out in 1 Corinthians 15: 33. g., may you reiterate a little more? ▪ The aim of these laws is to improve the security of smaller families and individuals by increasing access to safe and appropriate rent housing and ensuring that housing costs are in line with the payment of tenants. In order to accomplish this, countries and rural communities will provide building contributions and purchases from general apartments in order to contribute to the availability of rented stores at high prices for those in need, including those in need. for students, young people, elderly, disabled people, and people who are unable to provide for housing because of social or financial problems. My understanding is that we reach goals and values in this bill, which was the natural element, and we respond to the wishes made in the work of 32 members of a committee that had been discussing the matter for a long time before the bill came into existence. It was later discovered that the committee had to write down the bill, as we have seen, and that the firm request was also made to complete the case. The bill is based primarily on individuals, families with income and possessions. In that case, the income of individuals is less than 4.3 billion. K. ... anda couple under 6 billion. K. A year and a year of pure property must be less than 4.7 billion. K. The main points of the bill, which I would like to kill in a short talk, are, in my opinion, that the basis of these laws is the establishment of the state and the countryside at 30% total, or 18% from the state and 12% from the rural communities, which are reversible, in fact, only after paying off the loans of the apartments we assume will be 50 years old. In 50 years, the Agency will be reimbursed without interest. In fact, the contribution of the State to a Housekeeping Fund, which will then continue to grow and thrive, is because we are hoping that this is a solid and good system in which for a long time it will be sustainable; it is the hope of all of us. That's why the problem was. It also shows that one of the main objectives of the bill is the definition of a maximum rent of 20 to25% of the income of those living there. In many cases it is not a high income, so rent can vary from 50 to 80 percent. K. per month. That is why the founding budget is very important to ensure the management of partners and the ability to cover the costs of buildings and businesses with such low rents. Thus, a 50 - year - old loan time was needed instead, if I recall correctly, a 30 - year - old credit period expected in the early draft of the bill. There we were guided by representatives of the School of Social Services and Social Services that had a lot of experience in this case, and they will be late thanked for their fine contribution. They visited the committee for several times and carried some sense into their work, and they were well accepted. Since then, it has been observed in the case of the case, as this has been thoroughly reminded, that, in certain cases, rural society is permitted to provide an additional 4 percentages and the state, through a camp loan fund, an additional 6 percentage points of irreversible contribution to building apartments for students and disability. This is a very important step, and my knowledge may be very useful in the country, where circumstances are often and frequent. In many places it has not been built for a long time, and I know that waiting is for this bill to be approved so that projects can begin. There is also one good advantage of this bill, which we stressed to the committee that no discount is given by the quality of the apartment, so that people can live there for a long time until the night of their life, enjoying living in a place they like and in an environment that they enjoy. Even though people at that time are going over the maximum income limit set in the bill, they are expected to be more moderate over a period of three years. This is to make sure that those who want to live in this environment and in those places, are likely to be happy and happy there, can continue to do so despite being up to a specific limit. We felt that it was extremely important to do so. To this end, these brief points I cross, I feel that we are setting up a good system for the future. I believe it. I assume that once this is started it will always be possible to improve it, either by adding more money or by improving it in another way. So I think we're setting up a good job that was achieved, as we've seen so many times, in transpirit America. Again and again, I want to emphasize what has been said about it, it is, in fact, an advantage for the media to have almost all winters long reported that this bill was not to be fulfilled because of an inconsistencies in the council and because of the inconsistencies between the board groups and the disunitions between more and less parts. It's all bullshit. This disunition and war have never been present. We have certainly had to study this bill well. We've had to rewrite many of its articles. But it was all in tremendous peace, as we have seen, with all the representatives of all classes. It's as if the press just couldn't stand the fact that this case was not a war, it's as if they weren't allowed to have peace over one matter at the council. This was a very peaceful situation, and we're doing a good job. I agree with what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon says that people should keep in mind that many jobs are being done well and long during the council. I have also said it to people who have heard a few things about the council that we are doing well here and that everyone is working hard to do their best at this place. I can't bear to thank the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir, for her fear in this matter, and for her guide, why. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter, however, for her enormous efforts in this work. Actually, it was another job to handle this case. She did so with a sense of hard work, a sense of hard work, and interest in the case. I want to thank her for her contribution on this project. I'm not that kind of person that I'm a great person, as they say in the evil language, annitty graphy man--I'll rather go on and finish things quickly and decide. But this matter was really overwhelming, and I was often surprised and delighted to watch and observe my colleagues on the committee. Then I'd especially like to mention why. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir for their great contribution. It was fun to listen to them, how hard they had worked hard to do what was right. It's nice, when we're in port, to look back and see how well this was done, even though I myself did not have the most part of it, as I said earlier. But it was a valuable lesson to be seated on the boat that brought this catch ashore. We're good to go. For me, that was a valuable lesson. It was also fun to work with the committee secretary, Gunnlaugur Helgason, who is a tremendously powerful, relatively new member of our council; to observe them as a young lawyer, how successful he was in all the work of the committee, and to offer much good. He as well as others, we all deserve to thank him. I'm not going to keep this case to a point like this. I believe with this bill we're taking a good step toward the future for this group we're insured on a modest price on rent. We're going to continue on the same path, finish the work that we have, and finish the house - to - house benefits. Then we will close this circle and keep what we promised.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u43	Mr. President. I'm going to make a note of this bill to set up a general apartment that has now been replaced by a welfare committee. It must be said at the moment, despite the word. Now a certain senator, that there was a difference, is not known in himself: but he was redeemed, we ought not to say so. That may be what makes such a difference, for it is possible to resolve differences if there is a willingness to do so. Let us hope that it will continue and express in the vote that we have managed to do this in this way. I think it was good to have a test ball on the committee, I hear that it was, and that experience was so important in that case, how to apply itself, and look into things that we younger and new members of Congress may not always have learned. Despite the fact that you are happy that the bill has come and you hope that it will succeed, it certainly is not to be said for another two years, people will not be enjoying its fruitage until after a certain period of time. But this is a stage on the road that I think we can agree on being nice. The treatment has made a significant difference, e.g. to increase the cost of the state and rural society as we have considered, this is generally 18% of the local stock market and 12% of the local community. It is important for rural communities, who may vary, not necessarily depend on direct financial support, but on the distribution or reduction of expenses. I think that flexibility is very important to our rural society, since as we have seen in the financial agenda, there are many, unfortunately, who are not as well as a trust fund, especially in cold areas, and who have the option of obtaining an additional donation, as we have already seen. I'm gonna tap here on a big end, but maybe I'm more of a listener to this case, I've tried to monitor and put myself in it, and I haven't been at this job, but I've been enjoying the fact that our member of the welfare committee has been trying to inform us in the council very regularly about this. Of course, the change the committee makes on the bill that touches the fact that rent will not be more than twenty-25% of income is of utmost importance to keep in this delicate group, as we would like to talk about the people who are in their feet and who are more difficult than many to get into adequate housing. Of course, no more than a quarter of your rent will be important, for there are many other things to be used to, whether it is electricity and heat or eating. Also, it is a very important phase that I felt was involved in distributing the construction costs, allowing rent to spread evenly over and out of unity, which meant an increase in cost for some and others not. There was a time when I kept counsel from Brynja and other sources that it would not be wise to do so in that way. I'm glad it worked out. This is shown in the article about 19. Greg, to decide that this is even the case. making the rent more predictable so that tenants can be confident that it did not increase because other homes and housing were being built. Also, we need to take into account the separations we have left with at least Talk a lot against, not to be gathering in less desirable people at some particular location, but to choose a farm, in effect, anywhere in their rural communities. This is extremely important in all aspects of life. Another factor that we have been discussing in this regard is the building principle and the reducing of the requirements for it. I'm so glad to see that I'm 18. it is appreciated that the time's requirements for proper housing and future needs should not be canceled, i.e. that there are demands for the apartments that people can grow older and live there even if they need more help or something over the years that requires more space than previously expected. It's very important. The classes of students and other such are so restricted to other laws, and less demands can be made in various ways, since they are usually not intended for the future but only during study periods. It also shows that these apartments may not be very elaborate, and it may be expected that those who earn more money or who have something will be able to apply to a roadside home. It is also important to consider, so this figure assumes that rent stress can be expected if rent income or tenant property are over the limit stated in 12. g., for three consecutive years, to prevent the peripheral effects of this increase from being too intense. So they're trying to get the hang of it. Only on the project fund, but housing is expected to be provided with a so-called project fund. Of course, that kind of funds, according to the nature of the matter, must be maintained. This points to Dana, that they have similar living forms, and it has been shown that it was necessary for the inhabitants to keep a special fund in order to maintain maintenance and reform. The committee suggests that his name is a maintenance fund, not a construction fund. It may not be important in itself, but the main issue is expected so that people will know that some of the rent goes into the fund. It's also been discussed with me about the House's Treasure, which I think is a good way to build up, because we know that this step is just a drop in the ocean and that it contains only a few apartments in the next few years. It is a long walk ahead of us to meet what we are facing today, and in itself the problem that confronts us has not been solved. As I told you before, the effects of this bill are not good until after a considerable period of time. Hence, we also need to consider how we are going to handle matters today. But with regard to housekeeping funds, there will be reimbursement in the fund to become self-sustained so that the project can be continued and built more. It's got a length of time, I think it's been extended from 30 years to 50, i.e. that after 50 years of reimbursement, which can be of great importance, also because of individual payments. I'm going to reimburse me, the added stock proposal, which says that it could be difficult and even impossible to finance rent stores in small areas. In the scattered areas where you go through the economy, where there is little population growth and construction costs are much higher than retail prices, you see that nobody really goes to building, that's just like that. There has to be some kind of public support, a lack of housing even, so the rural communities continue to thrive, as you say, and the scattered areas of the country. It is therefore important to suggest that additional funds be provided, although in extreme circumstances, they should be provided. I don't know if what needs to be behind is absolutely clear in the opinion of others so that additional contributions can be obtained. Is that the market price alone? This is probably a collection of factors, perhaps it hasn't been built in X years, something must be behind which I haven't seen which will lead to other rural development. It is very important that the management process is irreversible, for it provides much more incentive for rural areas to seek to build housing. It must also be realized that buildings are not being built all over comfy ground. Also, only a few homes around the country are construction companies or tenants. Most of the places have tenures, or something like that. In other lands, there are rural communities or individual construction contractors, which have been aquifers and built, usually where there has been a rise. Things haven't always worked out the way we saw them. from the east, in the places of Egls, where blocks have long stood empty, and hopefully they will be reformed. The additional support that the State can provide is therefore possible, and it is also important in the context that if the local community is not equipped to provide them with additional support, the State can still provide it, i.e. One person can make additional contributions without the other one doing so. I think it's very important too. This is what I think is the big points in the bill, the things I've been through, this is what I look at when I look at the vast, scattered settlements and if there could be a chance of building a house. So, of course, it's a question of the social apartments where we know that social apartments or social apartments are very burdensome things for very many rural communities, who have them in their account. It would be worth wondering, would the community be able to establish a special partnership, some extramarital, that would be speciality, and not enter into the debt of the rural society? Now I don't know if it's possible, but it would be worth checking, for it would change a lot of things in itself, even though there was a behind responsibility, about borrowing, and other such things for them. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this much further. I expect this to be done with the excellent changes that have been attributed to today, and this will be, as has been said, the joint conclusion of the first phase of a long walk, since this is just one of the many steps to take. It's been a long time, and unfortunately, it's clear that we don't see the results until maybe two years or so. But this is a phase.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u44	President. I think it's a very remarkable bill and a very remarkable song code we're in the middle of here, we're going over. She has taken time and as we are told who are not on the welfare committee, much work has been done there. In fact, the changes made with the bill show that the committee has changed the bill quite some time since it was submitted. It is only natural, and members of the committee tell us that in general they were a cooperative member of the Committee, and they put forth great effort to reach a mutual decision. It's a pleasure. Unfortunately, news reports from the Council often tell us that we are in disunited and intruding, but this is not the case, because when we get on our level, we try everything we can to do. Then there are other aspects of nature that divide us into different political parties, and we do not agree. This does not mean that there is always one hand against another in this building. It is only natural for people from the various political groups to analyze. We're not sure what to say. the best way to pay taxes, what is the best way to pay taxes. We in the United States speak very much for the step-change of income tax because we believe that it will produce the most and best results in equalizing the standard of living in the country, others on a different basis, but when it comes to it, we deal with it. But we all agree on that, and not only here but all people agree on it, that proper housing for everyone is one of the basic needs of people, and we should try to put matters into place so that everyone can live in good housing. People can discern the method of doing so. This has happened, people have reported the best way to achieve this goal. However, the committee has come to its conclusion, and it presents a point of view with a number of adjustments. True, something will still stand out, so the committee says that after 2rd she has to take the matter back to her senses. It is also not unusual, though at times it may be made up of a person, making it evident that there is an inconsistencies when matters need to return to the committee after the 2nd. This is precisely why the Senate work is determined so that when large issues are discussed, such as this, the committee will have an opportunity after 2 Peter 3: 1 - 3. ... about., which is the biggest discussion at the council, to make things that they think are important. I'm saying this because I'm being bothered by a news report from the council that the people reporting from here are always putting far more emphasis on conflict than on efforts, as it has been done in this work, to achieve solidarity in big and important matters. In this bill, the goal is to establish a system where rent market and state and rural society assist them in renting. The goal is that people can rent good apartments and rent no more than 20-225% of earning people. This is of great importance, a respectable president. Then there are technical exports on a variety of items that are needed with such a bill. It is designed to make a special maintenance fund and to place money on it that is not unnecessary, we all know it. I would like to take, for example, that, unfortunately, the poem of every property the State has for its own mismanagement and how public buildings belonging to all of us are often ignored. But here it is arranged to become a special maintenance fund, which is designed to prevent the collapse of apartments. That's what I think is a good one. I'd also like to mention what we have about moving rents, housing companies founded as a unit. Of course, more money has been paid off by older apartments, so when new apartments are built, people say that there are expensive apartments, and so the rent in new apartments might be higher than at the old apartments. I don't agree with that. I agree with what's done in the bill, that it can be moved between stages. It must also mean that the older apartments will be built up by the maintenance fund, and then there will be no great difference in the quality between older and new apartments. I think this was called to work as part of a premise in the construction of these apartments, and I want to describe my opinion that what is suggested in the bill is an option. There's one thing people can say is that it's very small and it doesn't matter how much work this kind of work is, but I saw it when I went over it last night and this morning there's an adjustment in the bill on the bill, on the name of the bill, on the name of these apartments. The administrative bill refers to a general apartment, but it suddenly refers to a social apartment. I wondered if it matters to me whether we talk about a general apartment or a social apartment, and I think it matters, because we're just talking about apartments. We're talking about rent apartments, and I don't understand why it has to be called "partners" because countries and rural groups are sponsoring the construction of these apartments. I think it's strange. When I first heard that there was a disagreement about this title, I felt that there was more to it than I had changed my mind in that subject, that it matters to me, and I find it foolish to give these apartments a unique name. A respectable president. I would also like to express my joy with what I have heard from members of the committee and those who are observing the matter from outside. When the bill first came in, we heard that at the student and social center in Reykjavík, they were concerned about the bill and that, if you say so, their activities were ill within it, but it has been modified, and are now well treated with the bill as it is passed by both social clubs and social institutions of students. I think it's really important that we don't place laws that are damaged or are doing things that are going well and that have worked hard. I'm pleased to have come to terms with this agreement. I think at the same time that we're all agreed on this, it often happens that we're going to be incredibly functional. On one hand, we have so much fun together, but on the other, each hand is against the other. I think we need to learn from what we always do, e.g. in the case of this bill. It has now been three years for this ideal period. During the last term, there was a lot of work to be done on these issues, very much. Instead of continuing with my job, as I've been watching, it was kind of starting over, starting from scratch, as if small work had taken place. I feel that we need to learn to carry on with the work being done. We're expecting an election here in the fall, then a new election will begin, and then a new government will begin. I think we should promise ourselves that in things much has been worked on, there are now some. I would like to challenge those who accept the next election to continue with the work they've done, just as with work done in health and health care. Sadly, we should not engage in the hard work that has been done, even if we have not personally had our fingers in it. I would also like to mention what I said at the council earlier that it is strange how the program will be arranged. One thing that needs to make up a very effective review is that the opinion of the committee that came from this committee, after the great work that the people did there, and men have praised each other on top of it, and I'm also doing it, has been handed out just before midnight last night or after midnight. Eight. It's not a good thing, Mr. Honorable President. We must swear to ourselves that this is the kind of work we do. I understand that I am the last speaker to speak here today on this matter, except that a prominent speaker will likely speak again. It's a little strange because it's a big deal to us all, and it's important to our voters and it's a big step to work. But why is that, Mr. Honorable President? That's because we in here are just human beings. You can see how deep you can take into consideration the talk I now think that I have not had the time to read the committee's opinion and take deep into the relevant issues. However, I decided to come up to say that I rejoice that this phase has been reached. I welcome the work that has been done, and I hope that this case will succeed, for it really is important. We also need to realize that this is not the case if the bill is approved as a new system, it takes a natural time to build it up, and that's the way it needs to be built. A respectable president. That's what I wanted to say. I'm glad it's all come as far as it is, but I think we can learn a lot from its progress, and we can promise ourselves a relief and refinement in our work at the General Assembly of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you for a lot of discussion. It has been very sweet and good, informative and useful, on the committee's opinion of public apartments. Once again, I want to use this opportunity to thank you for the very good cooperation of all members of the committee at what moment. The welfare committee. Besides, I appreciate it. Councilmen for the beautiful words that have been here discussed with me. I love them very much. To say that, I just want to refer the matter to a general apartment to the welfare committee again, where we are going to examine a few of the TV's joints a little bit better. It's the housing fund, and it's taking a nice coat on the bill there and putting it back out of the committee to 3rd. where it is. Elders have the opportunity to give talks and talk about the points they would like to discuss. As I say, I return the case to what. well - being committees and thank you for having a good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u46	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. I agree with a pilot, dog. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, we've had an excellent discussion on this subject. She would have thought that in my opinion she could be even more broad and would have enjoyed hearing in the company of the leaders and even seeing the front of a special minister when we discuss this huge case, which is the housing case. Hopes have been bound to bring in a considerable contribution, at least in one field, to provide supplies in the rented apartments. I think it's right, though, to be down on the ground, that even if this plan is going to work, and here it's going to be a few hundred apartments for four, five years, according to the first plan or plan, it's almost like a drop in the ocean because it takes so much more. We will just not work at anything that has to be done to balance the real estate market here in the capital area. Of course, we expect individual and other persons to live in apartments. This helps, and hopefully only adapts the share of real estate markets to provide rent - making services at a controlled market increase proportionally. But how unrealistic it would be to think that this will solve all the problems facing Icelanders in the matter of housing, unfortunately it is not. In fact, when it comes to spending a considerable amount of money on this side of the state and rural society in the next few years, it is only to achieve the goals for the 2,400 apartments that were intended for the first stage, simply because the square prices that men first proposed were completely unrealistic. It was one big fault in preparing the situation that on the one hand, men were based on an unrealistic cost price to the capital area, as I think I crossed, 274 of you. K. in the square instead of 400 yards. At the same time, the situation was so strangely set in at least the calculated basis that when it reached the land area, nothing would be built in the system but bought only used housing, which, of course, is totally unacceptable because of its lack of housing. There is a lack of more housing in many parts of the country. It's been fixed. If state and rural society are ready to meet the recalculated costs now available with a higher financial supply, hopefully this will work, and we will see a few thousand apartments being added to the market in this new arrangement. Well, that's fine. Second, I wanted to mention, because I didn't have time to do this in my first talk, that of course there has been quite some discussions with the committee, as well as many in the community about the cost of building itself. There were a great number, hopefully over here, of the fact that they were the only guilty builders, the ambitious building principle for the general design of apartments, the modern attitude in how houses were to be designed, and to meet the needs of the inhabitants, and to look forward to the future. Some changes have now been made in this Regulation, and I heard in a particular person yesterday that these changes were such as making a good pay, could reduce the cost of building, but they were only slightly light because the main problems were not the equipment and quality of the apartment, that is not what makes building costs so expensive in Iceland. In some places, this is a high price, and it is expensive financial cost. There are the large lesions, and then, of course, market failure, i.e. lack of the markets that screw up prices and contribute to the situation in the capital area, where it has occurred simultaneously that large private stocks have crashed into the market and have bought up apartments and formed tenants that they are going to drive for financial gain and take the money out of the system, and then the tourist service competes for large quantities of housing. I just wanted to mention this because there is a need to examine practical, grammatical measures to try to get these costs down, other than making a discount on the quality of the housing. This was a topic of conversation. I don't have any problems with the prefix social, social apartments or social apartments. I'm about to start walking on that good idea so I can't deal with it. I understand for myself the thought of trying to have as the most popular name in this situation, so they try to push aside the thought that there is something here to separate people by living in that home. I think the word "generalt" is good in that relationship. For my sake, this might have been a common apartment or a public apartment. But some name had to have it, and it came to this conclusion. Then we found a new word on the budget, which is called a housing property agency, which rhymes with e.g. housing partners, and I think it's a good solution. The conclusion is that these are institutions, not communities, and better if they bear it in their name, it's more beneficial, more important, in the spirit language, that we call things the right, transparent names. We take into account the regulations on the management of these partners on gender proportions, which are of course not. I didn't get to mention it in my speech, and I don't remember if anyone came into it before. Of course, we tried to have these laws in all respects today, as with that point. It is also an important change in the composition of the representative of the private property and housing institutions, that its representatives, the tenants, shall sit there and be one third of the council, if applicable. It includes a certain population democracy and the maintenance of services and, of course, a matter of making it manifest in these areas. Then I'd like to make one more part of the interview, which is the added addition to the rule of reimbursement and their receipt on behalf of them after the events of the House's Fund, or local society, and the retreat of the Substitute Fund on it. Now it is clearly the nature of the case that has to be held around the institutions that are made on the part of state and rural society for each party. In the foundation it is expected that it will follow each apartment in the sense that if it is sold out of the system or that its use will be completely modified, it should be reimbursed, unless the price of sales is set aside to buy a new apartment. That in itself is quite manageable, and no problem, I think, when it comes to smaller parties. These are e.g. Based on a targeted construction program, 10◯20 apartments are held around it. But when it comes to things that hopefully will happen in the future, big and wide societies with a large library of houses where one has built in many resources of living apartment stocks and may buy and sell apartments at the same time in the system, this could be quite extramarital. Hence, we recently recommend that the Substitution Fund be allowed to agree that the developers or owners go to a special stock accounting. It would be particularly conservative to keep your arms around your movements in and out, plus and minus, provided for stocks, selling apartments, shopping back, the difference between this. Such establishments would regularly be for renovation. This, I imagine, could lead to significant economic change for these people, making them simpler, and greatly reduced the number of entries that otherwise almost always need to be on. I think people should take note of the source that is available in the preparation of the project and build an oversupply on that directive and offer that. This, of course, is one of many projects requiring preparation and work in the coming weeks and months. As members of the Governing Body, we have certainly not been able to calm down in this regard, even though we have done our best to do what we could. Then, too, this is a long journey. Of course, in the years to come, there will be time for various aspects of the system that will not be tested until even after decades. It seems that there can be a better way to make a better living when it comes to reimbursement or so there is plenty of time to go, and, of course, we can do it all in a fine welfare committee between the 2nd and 3rd. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u47	A respectable president. The objective of the bill is to confirm the state bill of 2014 and is to do so in standard format. The bill is presented to the Allied Council with the results of existing documents and overpayers in the management budget by 2014. The bill has two legal branches. On one hand it is proposed that the funds be altered because of a variation to government income, i.e. Dissociation of budgets and funding for the balance of the budget. However, at the end of 2014, there are proposals for substitution of the financial status. In the past few years, the Commission has noted that the bill has never been submitted in conjunction with a government account. Next, a bill arrived in 2011, which was submitted about four months later than a government bill for the same year. The bill was now submitted November 30, i.e. about five months after billing 2014. In 2014, total clearances at the base of the network were 657,293 million. K. that included supplementary income, but cost was 642,489 million. A.J., about 14,804 million. K. ... belowthefinals. In general, budgets for subsidies depend on a total drop in the amount of more than 6 billion dollars. beyond expenses. This has a net of 8.6 billion. the amount of fees submitted to move to the next year. The previous year there were 12.9 billion dollars. move between the years and 14.8 billion by the end of 2012, so that the introductions have dropped in the second consecutive year and have reached approximately one-half in size since 2012. Notes with the bill mention major applications and external fees ranging from year to year. A respectable president. Projections are often significantly lacking, and the Ministry needs to improve planning and monitoring for budgetary costs and some specific temporary projects. As mentioned earlier, the Commission does not change proposals for the bill, but it suggests that financial and economics will continue to prevail, as there is obviously a discrepancy between individual resources within the same budget. The work of the bill cannot be seen to have been done, despite the comparable tips made by the Committee in Animatement on the final budget for 2013. The Commission intends to follow its indications in cooperation with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs. A financial committee suggests that the bill will remain unconvinced. Ásmundur Einar Daðason agrees with the opinion but was not present when the matter was settled from the committee. Under the heading, write why. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir Hauksdóttur, Guðlaður Þór Þórðarson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Gunnarsdóttir Olsen Gnarsdóttir, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Páll Pálsson, and Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u48	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal for the resolution of a change in the Roman release of the International Court regarding crimes against peace. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Ministry of State and the Department of State for Matthías G. Pálsson and Þórdís, daughter of Ingadóttir, of the University of New York. The proposal suggests that the government will be committed to validate Iceland's change in the Roman release of the International Court of Justice regarding crimes against peace approved at the Roman Semitic Summit in Kampala, Uganda, June 11, 2010. The Court has the responsibility to judge the cases of individuals suspected of the most serious crimes against mankind. mass murder, crimes against humanitarianness, war crimes, and crimes against peace. The International Court of Justice has had a legal record of crimes against peace, but it has not been able to use its jurisdiction in this regard, since Member States did not define such crimes until the change in Roman release. It means that such crimes against peace will be defined, so these types of crimes can be prosecuted when changes take effect. The changes in Rome's release take effect at the earliest of January 1, 2017, after at least Thirty countries have validated the changes. Already 28 countries have validated the changes. The Commission stated that in addition to them, 29 countries have started the validation process and are among them, Iceland with contributions to this proposal. Eight states are then in onset and have recently begun the validation process. Clearly, then, the matter has much to do with a international Bible. The commission that Iceland from the beginning has joined a group of Western countries, who loyally support the activities of the International Court of Justice, and who became a member of the Court of Justice. tenth of the State to validate the release of Rome itself. The Court plays an important role in protecting human rights and in promoting world peace. The Commission stresses that Iceland is taking a clear stand on this matter and will become one of the countries that ensures that the change will be accomplished by accepting the acceptance of the changes as soon as possible. The committee noted that in view of the fact that crime against peace is not a specific crime, the legalisation of the changes requires that it be adjusted. Does the Committee consider it important for this work to be rushed as soon as possible and have received the information that is being started with a bill in the Ministry of State? So the committee suggested that the proposal be accepted unchanged. The person standing here was absent from the case, but his writings are viewed as well. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, an audience with Pirata, declared himself acceptable. It's under the count of Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, why. Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Silja Dögg Gunardersdótttir, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, Elín Hirst, Frosti Sigurjónsson, Karl Garðarsson, Otttir Proppé, Þóra Árnadóttir Bjarnason, and Össur Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u49	V.E.G. President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing on the confirmation of a contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for Fishing in Icelandic and British jurisdiction in 2016. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Ministry of State for Matthías G. Pálsson and Jóhann Guðmundsson and Baldur P. Erlingsson, from the Department of Professional Roads and Developments. The proposal involves the review of the Allegorical Act of the Convention Between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for Fishing in Icelandic and British History of 2016, which was replaced by paper exchanges in Thorsve and Reykjavík, on December 22, and on December 31, 2015. The contract requires permission of parties to fish seafood in the legal history of each other during 2016. Comments to the proposal show that the contract assumes a mutual source of orders from each party to fish the carbons and Norwegian-islen herring within the jurisdiction of the rest of 2016. Icelandic ships are authorized to hunt on as many as 1,300 trains of macroil and 2,000 trains of herring other than Norwegian-islensk in a sophisticated jurisdiction during 2016. Before this deal was made, the national Convention since 1976 determined that high - quality ships were allowed to catch 5,600 trains of bottom fish at Iceland in 2016. However, the overall power of cod will be under the contract no more than 1,900 trains, no more than 650 trains, and no fishing is allowed on the hatches or grays. At a meeting of the Committee, there was a number of increases in the total resources of cods that are permitted to fish in Iceland's legal history, but in 2015 the total of power did not exceed 1,375 trains and the total power of a cone was only 750 trains. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Karl Garðarsson, and Össur Skarphéðinsson were absent from the case but were written under authority. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánsdótttir, The daughter of Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gjörn, Elín Hirst, Sigurjónsson Sigránánsson, Karl Garðarsson, Óttarr Proppé, Árnadóttir Tínar Ájörnótir Bjarnason, and Össur Skarphéðinsson, writing under notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u50	A respectable president. I recommend a bill for a drug therapy song and a pact proposal for pharmaceuticalism to the year 2020, both of which are prepared at the Ministry of Health. The bill and the council arrangement are based on a proposal made on January 30, 2015. The committee was assigned to establish a new pharmaceutical policy to 2020, along with a review of current pharmaceutical laws, No. 93/1994, and return a retraction. The results of the work of the Committee are now in the form of this bill and the Council Directive for pharmaceuticalism to 2020. A bill for a new pharmaceutical layer presented here is based on some of the factors listed below. at the drug level, but the basis for the bill is for current prescriptions, No. 93/1994, which gained a value of 1, July 1994, has been modified 43 times. The law, however, has never accepted an overall review from the times when it was put into effect. However, there have been a number of changes in the planning, management and implementation of pharmaceutical and health systems and may be considered. The onset of the Agency, a special health care facility, the establishment of a special pharmaceutical database, the integration of hospitals in the capital area, and so on. Then stakeholders have repeatedly pointed out the need for the law to accept an overall review and to fail, including: above this bill has been prepared. Among the key indicators in the bill are the new databases structure, the CHMP is placed in the current picture, and its activities are transferred to the EMA, the prices of the veterinary medicinal product are available, and the sources are available to sell certain products in a public store. The bill contains an up-to-date monitoring and forced disposal of the Agency and violations of the laws of the law. Draws that the bill was sent in a review process and received a total of 25 reviews. In view of the fact that the Agency had two members of the Committee that started the bill, the Agency did not provide a more formal review than the Agency's comments to individual articles of the bill were brought in during the process. The work of the Committee took into account a large part of the report from the EMA as well as the 25 paraphrasers I could about. The evaluation of the effectiveness of the bill on the state funds has been performed and will remain unchanged as the law assumes that the spending of the state funds will increase by 276 million. K. telaprevir/Efavirenz/Efavirenz/Efavirenz This cost is due to the purchase of computer software and software, as well as its introduction. The institutions listed in the bill have been active and defined as budgets for the last few years. This is not a change in their function or responsibility from what is now. At the end of my case on a medical bill, I would like to mention that earlier this week the Ministry of Health received a memo from the surgeon's office that recommends that the law be changed in order for midwives to have the right to prescribe contraceptive drugs according to other countries, including: correspondent in Sweden Earlier this month, I also received a letter from Iceland's midwives, where the Society seeks to change the law in a way that allows them to prescribe certain medications and tools, and of these two items, to direct it to the welfare committee to make special inspections and possibly to refer to him as a representative from the surgeon's office and the State Ministry. A respectable president. I also recommend a panel resolution on drug policy to 2020. The proposal is based on the proposals made by the above committee, which I made, as previously stated on January 30, 2015. At the turn of the pharmaceutical policy to 2020, extensive consultations with stakeholders and emphasis was on developing reports about it during the formative process. Many reports were received, and they were worked on by the Committee. The decision was to send the following words out and request further comments. After the process, the source of information was found. A fall to discuss their comments and views. It was also taken into account in 2007 by older drug policies, the focus of health authorities on pharmaceutical matters, surrounding national policies, and the development of drugs in the past. As the previous pharmacological policy, the proposals presented here also take into account the European Commission's directives, the World Health Organization's targets of drugs and the aims of a drug layer that includes providing sufficient supply of necessary drugs with the most practical distribution on the basis of natural competition. The main aims of the policy are to ensure access to medicinal products, quality, efficacy and safety and reasonable and practical use. To achieve these goals, there are other goals. Emphasize that pharmaceutical companies in this country live under similar conditions as companies in other EEA countries. It will continue to ensure that the necessary medicinal products are always available in the country and work to improve access to medicinal products in the country. It then emphasizes that medicinal products are affordable prices and that the public's credit parties are sufficient to provide an equal value and an even biofuel. It also emphasizes that barriers do not prevent normal market competition and that research and pharmaceutical companies live under conditions comparable to what is best happening elsewhere in the European Economic Area. In the pharmaceutical policy, health expenditures are reported to increase faster than total government expenses and to increase the cost of new medicinal products than the rate of exposure to systemic products and other health care providers. The aim of patients to be treated with new veterinary medicinal products increases more rapidly and it is clear that increasing costs for this trend are becoming more and more difficult. Thus, the main challenges of pharmaceuticalism, and, in fact, drug policy in all countries, must increasingly create some sort of reconciliation with the induction of new drugs and bridge the gap between expectation, scientific development, and financial resources. A respectable president. I have now explained the principles of the bill and also the Congress resolution. So I'm going to suggest that the bill and the Senate resolutions on drug policy be referred to in 2020. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee. and a second round. at the end of the discussion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u51	President. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I'm glad this bill and this council proposal have come up. It is long time to revise medicine laws in this country, and it is also good to set pharmaceutical policies to 2020. It's important, and it's not just how the laws are. It also matters greatly how they are interpreted. My opinion is that the law of medicine in this country was highly narrowly interpreted, which I think was not for the benefit of the public in the country but primarily for its agents or for those selling drugs. It is of utmost importance to go through these laws carefully, and it is not enough that the law is made up of stakeholders or some committees appointed, but it is of utmost importance to go over it thoroughly to a welfare committee, that it will try to get people who are familiar with these matters but may not be in the inner circle of special interest. This is a great deal of special interest in the way drugs and drug trade are treated and in all the drugs involved in the country. I think it's very important. V.E.G. A minister mentioned that in the last days, he was given an order from a surgeon, e.g. that midwives could prescribe birth control pills, and then he mentioned something else and referred to the committee as taking it. It is also an enormous subject of interest, a respectable president, for all of us that it is just gone through that it may be able to expand the potential of prescribing what drugs in this country because there is also a monopoly on it. This issue is on the program at the end of the assembly when everyone is home, as though it were not important. I'll just admit, a respectable president, that I didn't figure it out for myself until, like, 45 minutes ago, that this big case was on schedule today, this huge emergency. I just wanted to say here and promise the Minister that I will have more accurate and more opinions about it the next time I talk about it from this platform.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-12-110.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's insistence on that. A senator from that platform said that this is a very important matter. This is a vast and large class of paintings that often, in the sense of not being given much attention to the principle and handling of matters, rather than to those that affect patients directly, i.e. access to medicinal products and their payments. I welcome my whole mind the urgency of the occasion. A senator points out that there is a problem to be taken care of. There is much to think about, and the committee that has been working for over a year on these issues has worked hard to gain access to their work and their billwork as many and different viewpoints as possible. I allow myself to state that in the work of the Committee, this has been successful but, of course, I believe that in the processing of the welfare committee on this bill, the requirement to call the table all possible economists, as discussed, may have a different view than shown on the bill. It will then be necessary for the committee to process the comments presented there. Thank you. A senator's speech. I would've looked like a dog. A senator chooses that more people will participate in the discussion, but he believes that the content and quality of the talks presented here will help him to see it then and instead of saying many. I have to trust it, so do I. A senator will, in view of his knowledge and experience, follow in what way a welfare committee operates from the bill presented here.
