ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u1	The President of the United States says: I have decided, according to the proposal of the Prime Minister, that the Council shall meet at the subsequent meeting on Monday, August 15, 2016. 15th Return to Reykjavík, August 9, 2016. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet for an extended meeting. I offer the highest. President and w. All council members welcome back to their council meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u2	Honorable generals. Thank you very much. The prime minister wishes to us members of the Parliament, and the members of the council welcome to the subsequent meetings of the Generals after a summer break. According to a revised work programme since May. will be scheduled for conferences in this cycle to September 2. Our parting work was successful, and the entire council was a credit to it. I want to thank the senators for that. I hope that the good spirit then ruled by the Generals will remain at this subsequent session.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u3	Last July, on the 14th, at the nursing home, Martin Kristin Halldorsdóttir, a former general, died. She was 76 years old and had been in poor health for some time. Kristín Halldórsdóttir was born in Varmahlide, Rhivjadal, October 20, 1939. Her parents were Halldór Víglundsson, a carpenter there, and Halldóra, the daughter of Sigurjónsdóttir, the housewives'teacher, and later the principal of the Housewives'School at the Lullum. There were many members of the Kristín mother's family who spoke up in this hall. Kristín Halldórsdóttir completed a student test at Akureyri High in 1960 and a year later from Iceland's Teacher School. She was a teacher at the Pioneer Service School in Kópavogur for two winters, 1964-1966, and worked long as a journalist, first at the time of the year 1961,1964, and later in 1972,1974, the editor of that magazine for five years, 1974 ◯1979. When the Women's List Association was formed prior to the 1983 election, Kristín became one of three women who elected to the General Assembly as a member of the Legislament. She was re-elected in that district of 1987, but two years later, in accordance with the rules of the organization, she became their employee here at the General Assembly for six years. She was once again elected general of 1995 and still for the Smokers. At the root of what became at the end of the terms, in 1999, when the female list was laid down, Kristín was extracurricular but then joined a panel of independent members, who later formed the left movement ◯ green supply. She was running for that category, and later for the head of the party and of the Council Party, 2001◯2005. During his session, Kristín was chairman of the female list class three times and vice president of the lower section of the Council of 1986◯1987. While away from the council, she served as chairman of a travel council for four years. Without a doubt, in 1983 the Association of Women's Lists, and the election of three of their members, a turning point in political history, increased the proportion of women at the General Assembly, and is now with the highest rate at the General Assembly of Democratic Congress. From that time on, it was clear that all political parties would have to consider women to do an increase in their appearances. The name of the Kristín of Halldórsdóttir will be forever linked to these consequences and to the results that followed. Kristín spent most of his career in a budgetary committee, later a financial committee, but for a time on an environmental committee, as well as other committees. During discussions and proposals, she took the most important action in terms of equality and the environment. She was serving at 11 legislatures all over, but her work period at the General Assembly lasts over 20 years. Kristín Halldórsdóttir was smooth in the field of international cooperation, moderate in speech, a good speaker, and well - spoken. She had considerable and varied experience in her savings when elected to be a member of the council. She loved the natural world of Iceland, was a great traveler, a horseman, and became one of the main advocates of nature protection on its way, so it was observed. We, who were accompanied by the daughter of Kristín Halldórsdóttir here at the General Assembly, remember her for her clear speech, industriousness, and careful planning, as well as her cheerful spirit and kindness. I ask a council to remember Kristín Halldórsdóttir's daughter, the former general, by rising from her seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u4	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Education and Culture, Industrial and Business Ministers and Social and Housing Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u5	Mr. President. During the days of News News magazine, we considered the status of people who received subsidies through the so - called corrections. It contains real examples of how economic conditions changed for the worse after they were corrected by the government. Along with the correction of the so - called penalties, the government reduced growth reforms, lost the price, and made the cash cuts worse. Last year, 9,000 families who received a new interest card are not getting it this year, and in 2014 there are over 9,000 parents who receive child support. Only the prizers and the most heavily owed are better off from the government's penalties. The people who had previously fallen within the definition of interest rates are slightly reduced, but growth improvements are much less effective. Hence, people are left behind with much less provision, and they face problems. The smaller ones themselves pay for the correction called, not the demanding banks, as promised. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister to the highest degree. A minister has been aware of these effects of government decisions when taken, or is making a mistake on the part of the Supreme Government. The prime minister feels that correction is needed?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u6	A respectable president. Here's a little bit of a head-to-head argument. There are other ways to tell the story. The correction of debt was successful, and it has been one of the main factors in reducing the debt of the household. A few years ago, 2012 ago, the homes in the country owed 125% of the gross domestic product and had the most debtable homes in the Western world. Last year the homes'debt went down to 84% of gross domestic product and fell to the debt of debt that has been here since the turn of the century. In 2003 and 2004, it was about 91% and was considered quite good. This decline is largely due to the government's actions, with the correction paid by bank requirements. Remuneration is thought of to pay on interest to people who owe too much money in their homes, so it is not surprising when the change has been made that the land's own money has grown considerably, and at the same time, there has been more than 20% of the land's modest size, the status of people all else and the harmony of interest improvements. Whether it is better to come to people by increasing their property in their housing, by reducing debt, and by paying money to the bank, or by having the highest debt and payment rate, and by helping the State by means of growth. Government policy has been clear, it is increasing the people's own money, and it has succeeded. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u7	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister believes that the correction so - called correctiveness has been successful, although it is that those who are better equipped for the first development of the government, i.e. decrease in interest to a special deduction, a home that was not entitled to growth because of great possessions and high income. So the government worked hard to reduce the debt of the richest people in the country. In contrast, income and property are faced with a worse situation, and the fact is that for them, it would have been far better if the government had not promised and did not try to live up to any of the things promised by the advance party for the last election. It's under the roof. Is this acceptable position acceptable to the prime minister? How does the promises made today change the position of the people who suffered from the so - called correction?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u8	A respectable president. I'm sorry that the newly elected president of the United States maintains the delusions that have existed here. The correction of debt was a general procedure that included that most of the operation strengthened the position of young people and lesser ones, just the opposite. On the contrary, the World Bank Fund has written a lot of reports on the old growth process here, that it has stretched way too high and was running into the pockets of those who did not need it. It's all turned to the head. This operation, the correction, was successful. People's possessions in their own housing have grown by 45 percent, i.e. 1/3, during the government's work period and are now in debt with the lowest in the Western world. Who would not rather be in a position to have a larger share in his own house and less money to the banks than have to rely on the government's means of growth to maintain the snare of the banking system and its system? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u9	Mr. President. At noon, reports were made that plans for a new private hospital in Mosfellsville were delayed, and a spokesman for foreign investors was waiting for proposals from the Icelandic government to change their plans, and he was waiting to have a conversation with the Supreme Court. Secretary of health. In fact, all the news we received in some of the interest of international and foreign investors could be said to build a new private hospital in Mosfellstown, an investment of 50 billion, has, of course, raised a lot of publicity and many questions, especially when it was found that it was possible for more wealthy people to pay in order to obtain a certain service by the Icelandic Health Organization. Right away we heard warnings from various experts that this could have a major impact on Icelandic health systems, this could undermine the system we've built up here, there would be competition for staff, and this would be a clue to a double system. Simply put, the warning has been reflected on all sides and on the highest level. A health minister came along and expressed concern about these plans. There is nothing in national legislation that prevents investors from building up such activities and even not applying for permission until they have built a whole hospital, as these investors said they were going to do, they declared that they were going to build this facility for 50 billion and then applying for permission, which would likely have been difficult to refuse. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does he naturally feel that in the legislation there are no ways to prevent such plans if professionals value them dangerous to the international health system, if politicians agree that they do not want to build a double health system, would it not be reasonable to believe that there are some ways in the legal environment to prevent this? [[The president calls.]] This is the first question I would like to address. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u10	A respectable president. I heard on lunch news that these investors are awaiting legal adjustments from the government, but the plan has simply not been introduced to governments, so I think it's very difficult to propose some adjustment in some kind of plan that you don't know. So there is something wrong with this discussion all along. Where it is. A senator asks if it is worth testing that there are no barriers to any plans that might threaten the health - care status of the Icelandic health system. the management of health care and for the 6th paragraph. legalize the surgeon's office with certain fences. However, it is clear that the regulations, the system, need to be sharpened, because I believe that the governor and the Ministry are needed to go through the law code better. We've prepared it, me and the surgeon, to settle over that task. However, the rules were determined by a group of servants set up in 2012 that there was nothing in the legislation that was lacking in order to allow this private business to work in some reasonable way. It is sobering to consider less if the surgeon general feels that any plans threaten the situation of the Icelandic medical system, that it does not have the surgeon's means to counter such a threat. I don't agree with this understanding, and that's why we've arranged an assembly, me and the surgeon, to go through this rule. [[The president calls.]] It cannot be that the system has no defenses if the health system is threatened.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u11	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I want to reiterate that I think it is very important to believe that politics and the proselytizing of this trend. It can't be natural that such a thing is determined by a single piece of pen set by a certain rural society without both discussing the political stage at the General and among the professionals, so I rejoice that this program is intended to be reviewed. The other question I have and the highest. A minister came to this plan. V.E.G. A minister has declared in the media and said earlier that he had never received a presentation on these plans. I'd like to ask, in view of the words of this investor, he hasn't even had--I'm asking if the highest. A minister wanted a meeting with these investors and whether the minister really has any explanation for how such cases can go as far as they can, without the aid of the health minister or other health authorities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u12	A respectable president. I have no explanation of how this discussion developed but that there is a great deal of interest in everything involved in the health system and a great interest in what is happening there. To me, this discussion was all a bit of substance, for none of this had been revealed to us. I have no explanation how this matter went on with such conflicting experiences, especially for one week, in media discussions. However, there is a set of laws on health care and surgeon generals that are specifically expressed in such a way that a plan such as this should be announced to the surgeon general, i.e. plan for business, so that it can come into a reasonable and awkward time to monitor how it would be done. Again, I reiterate that my understanding is that the procedure is in a way that a surgeon's office has used to intervene if it considers the health status of the health system threatened. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u13	A respectable president. I'll direct you to the highest level. Prime Minister. It is now that in the autumn of 2012, a national agreement was held that a large majority agreed that the constitution of the constitution would be revised in the spirit of a controlled government body. At the beginning of the season, a so - called board of directors was set up to review these matters. After long hours of work, and rather inexorably, the committee gave proposals to the prime minister for some of the three changes. I wanted to go to the highest. Prime Minister on what he wanted to do with the suggestions made out of a committee appointed to all classes here at the council, whether he felt that it was not important for him to stay alive in that work and to heed the 2012 National Pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u14	The work of the Constitution Committee - The Committee returned to the Ministry of Presidency for the summer - has been very long, yes. This is a very careful work, with the conclusion that there are new three laws in the constitution, a part many have spoken for having to enter the constitution. I have stressed that the places that came to the committee, to agree to send out these three suggestions first, and then to put them away, certainly with the books from different groups, is an excellent place to proceed with the matter. I've been talking about the wisdom of the matter coming in to the council. I would have felt that this would be the best time for all members of the committee. I've been told that it will not be, and it has also been presented in the IIlium symposium. Then I think our next step is to settle over whether we can do this in a smaller group or then a prime minister who has the business to do just give it up for the council. I intend to take a serious look at this in the coming days, especially in the light of the Italian president's talk at the introduction of this hall earlier in the summer, where he urged senators to handle this project, spoke of success as being good and the media being reasonable, which is certainly at hand in these suggestions. I guess there are different opinions in all council groups on individual proposals, but I think it would be very interesting if the council handled it over the next few weeks, because the window that is open now is open. It's a long time before it re-opens if the next terms last four years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u15	A respectable president. In the bright future, we have supported this work and would have supported it if it had gone faster and farther. But we support the suggestions, as our representatives of the Committee showed. There are many other important matters in the proposals of the administration board, such as the equation of voting rights, such as the clear rules of the possible expeditation of authority, such as the review of the office of the President of Iceland, etc., which is also important for us at the General Parliament to take on our work and take care, as at the highest level. Prime Minister spoke so well, the words of the recent president of Iceland to encourage us. I encourage us, but it reminds us that according to the General President of the United States, there are only 12 days left, and the first one is today, so there are 11 days left. [[The president calls.]] So if we are going to do something during this time of opportunity, we need to have quick hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u16	A respectable president. Thanks for the pep talk. A senator to bring the matter into the council and agree with him on the importance of allowing the council to carry out this assignment. I'm concerned with the quality of work, based on work that was, of course, done before, whether in committees of previous elections or the work of a administrative body or any other work done, there's a lot of work to be done, a nice job, which I think would be desirable to come in here. As for the Senate career, it has been my opinion, and we discussed it at a meeting of the government's management and executives how we would imagine it possible to extend the Senate and to vote later in the fall when we have finished our jobs, I believe that enough time to handle this project and take the encouragement very positive to me to bring the matter as soon as possible to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. A little bit of academic and cultural minister to whom he believes the role of the Icelandic loan fund should be. What role do we play in Icelandic society? Now I've read a bill at the highest level. A minister for the changes in the Icelandic Board of Education for the rest of the summer has been trying to figure out his role in the community. Are we trying to be consistent in studying, equalizing study, regardless of what a student pays after study? Not all classes are as well paid, and it is especially true that preschool teachers, nurses, and other classes that are not considered to be high - paying classes, that people will not go to school if the payoff is higher. I'm just asking, and I'd like a complete answer, what the overall vision of a minister is of this suit. I think and it's my understanding of the Icelandic loan fund that it's supposed to be a social equation fund. And it is not supposed to be a social equation fund just when people are studying. They should be taken into account not only when you are studying but also when you start paying off your loans. I'm asking, "What's the ideal at the highest? The Minister of Education and Culture in this category? I don't think that's clear. Wants the highest. Minister that the loan loan is equal to everyone, or does it want that the fund contributes to social equality?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry but would like to call attention to the fact that we will discuss this matter thoroughly tomorrow, where the bill will be recommended. Then we'll just do it. A senator can have a place to speak and discuss these matters. I want to answer that as soon as possible. A senator points to me that I think we agree that the funds are social equations. It is to ensure that students have access to funding when they are studying. At the same time, it is also the government's investment system, that is, they are investing in education, they are putting strength in the present system for students just to encourage study, not just to solve the problem. A senator, who is the social part of the matter, is also the State's declaration that education is important and that education is to be invested in. Then it is a question of whether the current loan system is particularly social or not. There's a lot of discussion, and we'll definitely talk about it, me and you. Senator, tomorrow. I think we would agree that this is the main purpose of the fund, i.e. The social equation. Since then, I have pointed out why. For example, if we consider 20 of the highest lenders, a senator and others will borrow well over half a billion, so let us consider examples of those who have completed their studies. They pay only a small portion of that money back to the State while others receive very little. Because of what? A senator gives special attention to carers and others who attend such studies, and this is made clear in the bill and the reviews of about 85% of the students who are now studying and taking student loans will either have a stable or lower tax burden after the study is completed in the current system. I don't think it's difficult to suggest that the current bill makes it possible for those who are learning, for example, to become teachers who are facing worse options for student loans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u19	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the answer from the highest. Secretary of education and culture. It is in a sense that there are certain people who need to borrow a higher loan, but they do realize that we cannot in our small community teach everything. There are many who go to a long and expensive study simply because it's not available here. I don't know what school fees are in Juilliard, but we want people to learn music properly. I don't know what the fees are at Harvard, or if people go to medical school in the United States, but the fees are high. With the best plans. The minister of education has in its bill is, in fact, limiting this possibility. Sometimes we need a high education loan because there is nothing else in our situation. I feel very bad if there are people who are involved, who are relevant to our community, that we have a wide variety of education and that people have access to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u20	A respectable president. Today, 99% of students charge student loans less than 18 million. So there is no fundamental change here, but what is being proposed, and I look forward to having that discussion tomorrow, it is that we adopt the same arrangement we know in the North countries, on the other hand, a loan system and a strengthening system where strength is transparent and given as much information as we can about how to manage it. I think that's a good idea. The scholarship movement has repeatedly called for such an arrangement to be adopted, to set up an arrangement that we know in the North countries, and I don't think there is a need for it. When we look at the Icelandic educational system and the situation there and how these factors have worked together, it must be a thought, that we Icelanders have some kind of world record in how old we are when we finish college. The mean age here at the BS and BA degrees is just over 30 years. The context of these sections and then the changes we're making in the high school system is to bring the Icelandic education system closer to what we know in the North countries, so that the Icelandic education system works in a way that best deals with what happens and thus lays the foundation for a good living in Iceland in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u21	A respectable president. At lunchtime, we witnessed a large presentation of the board's activities on the premises. On the one hand, it is forbidden that people would be able to borrow 40 years. This has become clear, because of the lack of sleep. Gunnlaugsson The final election was to choose to receive a progressive government or insurance government that it is perfectly clear that we have received insurance control, although the advance company is sitting in it on a punt. However, the other amazing point is that a huge advantage for young people is being given a tax charge of 1.5 billion a year to pay off loans and to make it easier for property. And it is not up to me to welcome such action. At the same time, however, the government has been cutting down the same young people with starving policy in the growth reform system, which has been reduced by 15 billion each year from what they were at the best at the time of the last government. And now an ornamental display is being made to dose 1/10 part back. To who? To young people who were always getting the most out of the growth system because they usually have less income and less property in the house than in others. A respectable president. Isn't there good reason for the government to admit that it has completely fallen on that test, as well as cut off the price insurance that she promised and the other, to find real resources for those who need it, by starving the growth reform system and then throwing little gourds into people they're paying for anyway? [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u22	A respectable president. It is obvious that the United States believes that it is important to keep people in debt, to have legal rights as high as possible, and thus to help by injecting interest. We have the opinion and policy that the most important thing is that people have as much housing as possible and that they can pay off their debts as fast as possible, and therefore do not sit up with that risk, because they can become in Iceland as we know of the past, that they are better equipped to cope with such traumas. That's why we've come up with the correction - which I know the Conspiracy has never been able to accept despite that. In a letter to his party members, a senator urged partymen to think that perhaps the candidates should have listened to the suggestions of the candidates on how to handle the debt-settling apartment owners at their time - we did. We kept those big words. The conclusion is that the Navy has suggested that one of the greatest reasons for the decline in housing has been from 125% of national production to 84% in the past year, and that it continues to decline, e.g. ... forthe Government'swork. Then mixes a little. A senator of new resources for people who don't have a house today into the growth system today. It's just doing the same thing for this group, it's making it easier for him to get his place, lower his head chair, give a big chance to take unsecure loan clearly, which is well meant to represent the biggest step that has been taken in Iceland in order to get a hold of the security loan since the insurance was given to 1979.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u23	A respectable president. Many things I have done in my life, but I never remember saying that people should have listened to the candidates when it comes to domestic debt. On the contrary, I have criticized the acting that has marked the operation and is best seen in it, because it is the highest. The role of growth reforms, correction of the rights of some 15 billion a year, seems to not yet have been achieved by the government by cutting down the expenses they already paid. But the difference is that much of the correction went to those who had not been right in the growth system because they had too high a income or had too much money in their home or had never had a debt problem. It is the injustice that we criticize, and the injustice is now replaced by new measures that continue to cut down on those who actually have housing problems and a debt problem, but money is spread in a very transparent way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u24	A respectable president. It is difficult to reason at the council when people refuse to accept the facts that have already existed. In contrast to the actions of the former government, which I would hate to talk about, most of the young people and the less fortunate, 110% of the group who were not covered on board, went to the very ones who had the most debt and had the most money between their hands, and yet did not work to meet the group, much less the other group that was left off but accepted the correction. We are then in this process to offer suggestions, resources for young people, to make it much easier to get a roof over their heads by using special savings without compromising their chances of getting into their old age, to have more than 100%, actually 113%, of their income after they stop. So it uses part of its special savings initially in order to reduce the amount of payment and to reduce debt, to increase its own money, and to speed up housing and to be better equipped to cope with possible future inflations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u25	A respectable president. Modern - day national optimism has good explanations. The legal rights have greatly improved the past loss. Debts have decreased, property has increased, and the population of the Icelanders has increased steadily. Above all, pay has increased rapidly at the same time as inflation has been very moderate, including ... becauseof the building of a crown and practical prices on raw products and fuel from abroad. Thus, the increase in salary gain has been much more recent than in comparable periods of high pay gains during the past few decades when inflation was severe at the same time. There is no indication at this point that this trend can continue if we Icelanders have the ability to make good decisions. This is made clear by the Laboratory's recent figures on pay and buying. In June, the Haguess Department's pay sheet increased significantly from the previous month. From the same month last year, the increase is 12.5%. During the same period, inflation was observed to be negligible and the level of remuneration increased considerably over time, i.e. over 10 percent. Such an increase in power to gain money is doubtably few of the most frequent. In August this year's apocalyptic event is calculated as less than 1%. For two and a half years, the cost of inflation has been below the prices of the Federal Bank for 30 months. The projections go along, the inflation is below the lower limit of the National Bank, which can be said to be a completely new position for the Secret Service Committee. It looks like little inflation in the next month and that it stays up to the level of inflation well in the next year at least. In that sense, Iceland and I now enjoy a unique period of prices and, as previously said, considerable increases in financial resources. Last year there were 6,000 new jobs in this country. The average lack of work during the past 12 months has not been lower since 2009. The proportion of workers is now as high as in January 2006, and unemployment is in a similar area as in the beginning of 2003. The proportion of people who have a job has increased almost constantly since 2013 and little indicates that it will change in the near future. At that time, professional activities have become rapidly increasing and are now approaching the best of their time. New figures show that Iceland has again seen an opportunity in Iceland and is returning home. Although the move from Iceland is rare, it is now apparent that this year will be a third of the last 17 years where more Icelandic citizens move to the country than they do from. Most predictions are acceptable to Icelanders these days. Proliferation projections for future growth will be higher than 2007 by 2016. Most important, economic growth is much healthier than in 2007 when it was largely based on an increase in debt. Economic growth is now driven by investment and personal consumption. Therefore, private consumption may be expected to increase as a result of increasing purchase, but the government will continue to support their homes so that they can continue to pay or increase their savings. It is important that, along with improved corporate property status and households, you are not allowed to fit in. A new report by the Substitution of the Substitute Bank shows that individuals with a lack of understanding are rapidly intertwined, i.e. about half of it last June. No wonder, then, that Moody's assessment has been announced by the food company that the camp loan fund will be re-evaluated with potential increases in mind. This improved interest in homes and businesses also results in improved government management, but the present government has achieved individual success in financial matters, as can be read from the reports of credit tools. If the same policy is followed, it is not long before Iceland moves back to A Company at the international loan market. Who would have entrusted that with any losses? At the same time, the Kingdom budget will reduce much, as it has actually made all this terms. In spite of the lower tax burden, tax stocks have been strengthened, and the number of taxpayers has increased. Looking back on expenses, the government fund is now back in time for economic crisis and failure. Most of this is where expenses for welfare have gone up dramatically in this government and are now nearly 12 billion dollars. greater than 2007. The government has presented a number of suggestions for other welfare reforms, such as making a big effort in behalf of those who buy their first estate, as mentioned earlier today. At times, there are points to make sure that the situation is like this, but the outcome may not be. The location for the Icelandic economy has been pretty good for a long time and nothing seems to pass, as this has been traced. In fact, the well - known Gallup's expectation index is rapidly reaching its climax in 2008, but the indicator recommends belief in people's expectations for the economy, the job situation, and the overall income of the home. Optimism has increased at the same time as the number of jobs has increased, and people's financial resources have increased. The same is true of the 400 largest companies in the country, who consider their jobs to be good, but economic indicators have only been increased by the last 49 times. Thus, it can be said that today's economic conditions are unusually good, even extraordinary, about many things. This government has been working to change, improve, and correct what needs to be done less than to be done. So we can be proud of the situation right now in the economy. The restoration of the economy and the operation of economic crisis and the collapse of banks can be claimed. Now we need to start looking ahead to the long future. A respectable president. At the beginning of the term, the government set goals. They have been achieving one by one, the duet correction that was successful, and have yielded to the results, how they dealt with the creditors of banks, and conditions that have provided the next task to be taken care of by individuals and businesses. Today, provisions were made for those who intend to buy their first estate. Despite the many challenges, the government has never lost sight of its goals. This requires determination and boldness. Me and the Icelanders have a great opportunity in today's annual trip. Outside and internal conditions are and have been favorable. Yet, what is important is what humans do about opportunities they face. It's important that everyone gets to enjoy, not just some. History tells us that there is no guarantee that things will continue this way. Keep in mind that it matters who sit at the helm. Choose who's got it. We are now starting a late summer conference where we have a number of important cases for the people of the country that are important to conclude before the election begins in the fall. I expect that with organized work at the council for the next few weeks, it will be all right, especially if we look to the work ethic and efficiency we saw during the last few months of the spring council. A respectable president. I have considered the true economic situation of the country with the evidence of facts and economists. For all of us, it is important that the situation now be clear. We can then have different opinions about where we are going from here. Government policy is clear. The result of the last loss is the road.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u26	Mr. President. Why was this ideal period cut short? We are now entering the last days of that election period considerably earlier. The reason is the unprecedented situation that followed the leak of Panama, and it was found that a large number of Icelanders, including top officials, had taken advantage of a tax cry used to free money from common national funds. It was a shock to the nation that the prime minister was involved. The interview was famous, and the subsequent news was unbearablely embarrassing. The country was ashamed to have a discussion at international news stations for corrupt ministers in Iceland. V.E.G. The secretary of finance and the Minister of the Interior then needed to explain why their names were also included in the documents. It was a feeling of fraud and corruption that produced the largest protests in Iceland's history, and the demand was: The Prime Minister resigned and now the Supreme Minister. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The secretary of the economy asked the nation to accept the decision to complete a matter before election, but the term would be shortened by one council. When asked about the ideal day, the answer was: It depends on how the government behaves. This is an answer, and it has not been acceptable and the government has not been acceptable for abdicating it. Despite that threat and despite the failure of the government to tell voters when it would be chosen until now, five months later, the government continued to work with her side at the Council last spring to complete an important matter. That cooperation was successful, and it is worth reviewing as we enter this brief summer council. Mr. President. The fact is, more than one area is where unsatisfied satisfaction prevails with a local government. Health services suffer a financial shortage, and so does education. The numbers of the elderly and the poor have fallen behind the minimum of their income. A suspect has woke up on bad practices, such as in the City of Remuneration, and a government sale has become suspicious. Correction of the mortgages was made with the best benefit to the rich. The weight of the tourist stream increases without any action, and over the past three years, the state's budget has been worth tens of billions of dollars because of reduced fishing costs and the total tax paid. All of this happens to ordinary people who are low or average, and there is no longer any patience for such practices. In many respects, though, not everything is black and the position of the money is good. With proper emphasis and setting of priorities, the public ministry can be built up and strengthened the interior. There is also good hope that after election a new government will take over. To be honest, it is surprising to see the campaign plans of the government that will appear in their budget of government until the next five years. In advance, you would have expected a small package of promises in various building projects, but the groups have decided to show their right face and do not expect more money into the health system or to the university. Nothing more in interest of child support and almost nothing in the construction of the road system. When asked how to build Iceland, their answer is simple: Private business. Private hospitals, health care, schools, roads, and airports Mr. President. The government won't finish its terms because it's solid trust. The election will be returned on October 29, and we in the United States speak for the ideals of such policy as a new constitution, for a powerful welfare community, for the righteous division of the national cake, for learning equality, for quality health services that all can enjoy, and for human rights at all levels of life. There is a good possibility that a better government will take over in a few weeks, and that is a source of great joy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u27	Mr. President. V.E.G. The situation of the economy was considered by the prime minister and spoke of the true economic state. That only put me in a position, for those of us in politics know that what is said and what is not said is important. V.E.G. Prime Minister spoke of stability, brighter time, and low inflation. He refrained from referring at high interest levels, the Achievement of 5.0%, not to mention that the actions of the government, the current, and the previous one, did not mention the actions of the government, the government, and the actions of the previous one, i.e. During this ideal period, the priorities have been marked by the need to look after the more prosperous ones. It goes back all the way to the first government project that was reducing the fishing costs to the big production. Then we can examine some of the changes made in tax policy. We can look for a closed education system, we can face hardships in child development and growth. All of this has benefited the more prosperous. The best thing the government has done in these matters was to send out a press release about the increased equation based on figures from 2013 that had to be corrected after that announcement went out. We estimate the economy according to various sizes. It is the same as any other size, and it was not much of a talk at the highest. The prime minister who also did not mention that elections were hurried following the resigning of the former prime minister. The people looked ahead to the fact that there have been two nations who have played in different playgrounds when it comes to how to invest and what rules are being followed. It differs from those who have been able to store their possessions in societies in taxes or in those who have played according to Icelandic professional plays. This is why the government officials came to the stairs following an unexpected press meeting of one general and announced that the elections would be accelerated and the election would be shortened by one assembly. It was because, in the face of this truth, there was a complete loss of confidence. Though people have considered the day of judgment since then, this is the situation that can't be handled lightly when we consider the national situation, as they say. We are now beginning a short session, but we do not have all the time ahead of us to complete major issues. Of course, the government will highlight some specific matters that we will consider at the council. I'm stressing and hoping that the government will focus on completing work as the highest bill. Secretary of finance, on springtime, recommended measures against taxes. It would be a pleasure if the council could end that matter before the election. There is actually a significant change in this matter, but I expect it to be achieved. I also mention that this summer's news came to the top. The Environment Minister would have set up a task force to see the possible establishment of a central national park. I don't think anything stands in the way that the Allied Council of Iceland deems a proposal in this room from members of the left movement for a green bid for the establishment of a Middleland national park that has received a very positive report in case. Environment and Transport Committee. It would be a pleasure for us to complete that matter. I also remind you of a case called for at the council and the Supreme Court. Government ministers have spoken of in a positive way, which is the validation of the climate Treaty. You have noted that it is important to achieve a good understanding of the matter of Congress. I agree that it is important to make a good team for the Senate work, but then it must also be so that we get together on what subjects we are going to focus on. I believe that the three issues I have mentioned here can be of good solidarity based on how the Supreme Court operates. Ministers and ministers. Senators have spoken. On the other hand, I miss not to hear such emphasis when discussing what is to stress on the brief coming council. When I mention a central nation park and the climate contract, for example. to discuss matters that will affect future generations probably more than most of the other issues under here. I expect that when we enter this brief election election session, we all do our part so that Congress can succeed. It is also important that we talk about what we want to achieve. It's in the way, like the highest. Similarly, the prime minister said that there are differing opinions and that the picture of economic conditions can be true, we need more factors to achieve the true picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u28	Mr. President. This brings to mind that the government groups decided to shorten their terms and say that this is because the government has no trust. In fact, it comes from the fiercest direction, from the president of a party established to be one of the two political towers, but it is self - confidence today. The fact is, in spring it was decided to suggest the less part should go for the election. It's been cut off. As a result, the members of the government joined together, a program presented how they would live in their most important affairs before going into election in the fall. That is why we served late in the summer, so we are gathered here in August. During the coming days and weeks, we will emphasize a fundamental issue under which the government has been working, referred to as members of the council, and will appear in the days ahead. One of them was introduced today; another will be presented tomorrow. And then the days will pass, and we will take first place in matters that the government especially wants to promote. What has been the mission of this government during the election period? First and foremost, the government had to exert its influence on society's acceptance, the shutting down of a bottomless budget that had become a permanent problem, and then the homes had to fight to be real participants in this community. That's what we did on the government's opening days. The money hole was closed, which was a perfect prerequisite for us to start a rebuilding period. It is as it has been, all of us would have liked to put more money here and where in our welfare system. We would not have wanted to have to deal with the cutbacks on the social security benefits that left the government brought on those who had to trust. We would not have wanted to postpone the equipment plan, etc. as has been done in recent years. In this situation, we have been taking in such a way that this year we are moving toward more than the total collection rate of the left government since 2009◯2013. Likely, there will be more leftovers this year than the total collection of the left government. This gives us the opportunity to look to the future and ask us: " How are we going to rebuild a better health - care program than we have had to accept in recent years? How do we deal better with older ones, microplies, and others we agree that we need a helping hand? This is reflected in our long - term schedule. They come up here and say, "Well, this ain't nothing." That does not mean doing anything. It is surprising, though, that in this five - year program, 10% of the total expansion of the state budget is expected. And it's not typical Icelandic politicians that they'll say in the end of an election: Is, it's nothing. A 10% increase in government health and health costs, education and transportation, it's nothing. I'll offer you a better offer, I'll offer you 20%. [[Up front.]] Or what is it supposed to be? How much should it be? Is it what awaits us in the last week before election, going to a promise race for billions of dollars that people plan to fantasize about society, far beyond the long-term program? A careful consideration of this and some fairness will help them to see that the fact is that there has been considerable room in the years to do better in community service over the years. So let's work out how we're going to assign it, how we're going to divide it. To say that there is no increase in cost-exploited space in the fiscal budget is a complete fabrication and, in fact, a total failure to accept it. They say that the government has set priorities for those who have most in their hands. It's also wrong. We have dropped the income tax so that by the time we reach power, there was a middle-stage income tax that goes down at the end of the year. The midpoint began at 240,000 pm. We have dropped it and have dropped the lowest level, so people are now going to the lowest level of more than 800,000 bucks. All of them under 800,000. has received a significant reduction in income tax from this government. So you're saying that these are the people who have the best. These are the people who had to put up with a left-hand tax rise. They're calling the hunting fees. The fact is, this government has taken up another tens of billions of dollars in hunting fees beyond what the left - handed class government did for four years. We've taken another tens of billions more at hunting costs than the left government did. We taxed the wear and priorities of the companies, which are now paying lower insurance costs and their homes. That's the way you could keep going. No, there's no problem if you want to go into it with the board that there's room in recent years to do so much more. For the past three years, we have been working on the job of finding resistance by completing the stock market, handling the crown problem that we are announcing will continue during this council, and giving the homes the resistance. Yes, we can do better in the future, but that is not so that we have proclaimed that there will be little room or space. On the contrary, there is bright ahead to the Icelandic nation, we have benefited from low inflation, the power of riches has increased, and we will continue on that path.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u29	A respectable president. We're discussing national status, and the discussion is basically just going on a dollar and a buck. We are gathered here in the World Assembly Hall in August, which is very unusual, and the government has announced an election in October, has decided to shorten the election period and speed up elections. That's unusual. What does it say? What happened? Is this just because people gave up on the project, don't bother anymore, or is there something bigger behind it? We know that the reason we're here, the reason we're going into elections, is because there's been a total chaos in Icelandic society in the spring following the Panamas. In fact, there was a complete collapse of trust between the people of the land and the governments and really the politics. Outside, there is a group of people protesting the arrival of foreigners and, in fact, a much happier group of protesters. On the other hand, there is the ideologies of fear and optimism and courage. We see this happening in politics not only in Iceland but also around the world. We see the politics of fear in the election in the United States now. We saw how they played on the fears of the Bgreit Award in England last summer, and we found it in Iceland that fermentation is in the minds and stomach of people. That's why we're about to vote in the fall. The waiting attitude for an old political bitch, for arrogant political bitch, for unsatisfactory and inequities, for injustice in Icelandic society, for its waiting attitude, and for its influence in our mouths, people were so tired of doing this. Now we're going into the election in a few weeks. This assembly will be discussed, well, I don't know. There are dozens of cases that have entered the council. Depending on who speaks the number of cases that will enter the council. You can count on that, and you already hear that the cards begin to be shown, promising additional expenses, praising all hands for the future, but the rest of the question is, What is credible? That's the big question. Can we look in front of elections where we agree with the higher income of the state, which we all know to be the least due to the growth of tourists, due to a good oil prices, etc., but the same system in the marine outways where a few are assigned to our country's data and quality, a closed agriculture system, etc.? I think it's pretty clear that the reason we're gathered here in August for an election period that has been decided by the government to cut by elections in the fall is because people want to change. We can do some things during the council, we had a fine few weeks in the spring, with the Congress work going well, and we made important decisions and agreed on important matters. We know all about this, and it's called after this. That's why, dear senators, I say to all of us, love like people, resist those expectations, and try to get out of the tire tracks.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u30	President. I'm gonna warn people. The vast majority of the people in this room are in terrible elections, where promises are so unrealistic that they should be taken with great care. I'd like to review why we're here today, why we're at the council in August. In April, the most amazing circus I've ever witnessed during my reign of Congress. We who went through this inside our Assembly Hall, well, not exactly in shock, but in the midst of it, we were more completely humiliated. It was humiliating to go through this period in which the whole world looked at us and laughed at us. It was a direct joke that the prime minister of Iceland in the world press and in the nation for having such a prime minister. That's why we're here. We're not here because the government's been great. We are here because of this, and the term was shortened because the government became afraid of the people who came and protested because their moral sense was offended. It has never occurred before that so many Icelanders met because they have been completely offended morally. It is unique in the history of Western democracies. But we're here, too, because we were supposed to have supported a summer council so that the government could have a chance to finish some of the cases that are inside. We're not here because the government is going to bring 20 new cases. There are over 50 cases in committees, and I'm sure they'll be paid a natural way through the Council. In a natural way, it means that some things that are not agreed on will simply not be over. Everyone knows that, even. newborns in politics like me, that by the end of the council not all of them get what they want. That knows the government perfectly, so let's just speak human language. Then I find it odd to listen to their language the highest. Minister here to speak. I think it's so strange that they always talk like four year's terms are completely isolated, like they're not in touch with anything. There is constant talk that the left government did this but never mentioned the reason why this has collapsed. The policies that led to disaster are never spoken of. We've been running pretty tight on the policy of simply privatizing everything. Happily, this government has been one of the most helpless governments in Iceland. Fortunately, I say, and may this government become even more helpless and may bring up a case from it into the General Assembly so that we can finish this election period and take the next elected period in order to be in relation to the future and the past, not to some four-year-old event, in which decisions are made into the future that others will have to live on. I challenge the government to remain as hard as it has been.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u31	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for starting this discussion about the state of national affairs and other speakers here during the discussion. More than three years ago, in the formation of a new government under the lead of the advance movement, we promised that a new parish would begin in behalf of the country and the nation. As shown in a talk given at the highest, that application has gone well. Prime Minister. Our guide through the entire ideal period has been to improve the interests of the land's households and to promote employment with increasing value for the public. To us, it was obvious that homes are the basis and driving force of society. To activate it, we would have to deal with the domestic debt problems caused by the collapse of the financial system. The debt would be corrected for inflation in 2007/2010, and both direct delocation of the head and taxing measures would be used. We would have to change the system to keep past problems from becoming a problem for the future and would need to build for the future by promoting our work. By doing so, we would ensure permanent growth and well - being with adequate employment. Without work, there would be no growth or well - being. The members of the House were everywhere. Downsets who just knew that nothing could be done, nothing could be changed. But we didn't let them tell us. We refused to agree with the members of the Watch Tower Society that nothing more could be done for our country's homes or to promote our business life. We were not told that Icelanders could not control their own economy themselves. A simple truth that has truly proved to be very effective. Since 1999, domestic debt has not been reduced, and its debt has now reached the lowest level in the North countries. At the same time, in recent history, in August, below 1%, in spite of high pay increases, there has been the longest stability of prices for decades unique in Icelandic economic history. There has been an increase of over 20% in the average period, faster than there are examples. The fight against debt has resulted in a reduction in the debt of state funds and, thanks to the success of a more successful project on emissions, stability, and reasonable government management. All of this has allowed us to restore our welfare system after a difficult cut down of the crash years. During this average period, we have increased expenses for the social security of over 55 billion dollars. to improve the interest of pensioners. I have presented a new core for changes in social security insurance, in line with the proposal of a committee that meets the criticism that has developed on the present system, where we have a simple and united set of reform groups, suggest one limit of decline, encourage flexible retirement, and initiate the induction of professional duties for disability, a change estimated to more than 5 billion dollars. In the first year. A new housing system will radically alter the rent-authorized situation by the law on general apartments that were properly cooperated with the labor movement and the General Assembly all. It is estimated that e.g. that the new housing centre of ASI and BSRB will be able to deliver one new reconstituted block per month to rent from 2018 onward. The first items will be delivered for a year as well as for the first development of a country and a community. A new tenant housing reform system so greatly increases the support of small and medium income families, which lasts for years. Today, we presented another progressive step for homes with a bill of permanent housing savings and one of the biggest steps that have been taken toward decommissioning the insurance loans since its appointment. Iceland is supposed to be a family-friendly society, a family-friendly country where children live in security and equal opportunities. On this basis, there is a new family policy for the General Assembly, and there is now a review of the birthworm system. It suggests that 100% of your salary will be paid at 300 yards. K. In a month, the maximum pay of your maternity will be 600 fars. K. in a month, and in a step up to 12 months, the birth order will be extended. The good places of the homes, employment, and the public certainly give us the opportunity to increase our well - being over the next few weeks, the months, and the years. We have always had faith in Icelandic society and the ability of the people to cope with any problem, and they will have the opportunity to do so. So we can be proud of the situation today, in Iceland, like the highest. The prime minister said. It really matters who will be in charge. Choose who's got it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u32	Madam President. The forwarding tribunal government and the Independence Party, now decapitating because of the nation's distrust of it, was discovered on the property of its three foreign Ministers, in the Panama Islands, received a large gift from the governor of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. She received a government fund that was cutting off after the almost bankruptcy of an 18-year-old independence party and a forwarding group, and she gained economic stability. How has this government used this situation? Yes, the social and housing minister is now reporting a birthworm bill and a social security bill. What was the first act of the Department of Social Affairs in the new government? They were taking the validation of the maternity home, throwing them in the trash, and reassigning the ores. Now she comes 15 minutes before the election, and she says she's gonna be long enough. It would have been possible to do so immediately rather than lower the price of hunting. And what else does she bring? Public insurance bill, recycling of the bill entered the council three and a half years ago. No, social security has not developed in line with other pay in the country during this terms. There's been an increase in equality. It is now, 15 minutes before election, with suggestions from the left board, saying: It can become a law if the smaller parts don't get in the way. At the greater part of the General Assembly, I have this to say: A general is not an assembly. A general assembly is not a scene of war. The General Assembly is the democratically elected legislature of legislatures, where we need to be careful. We deal with the social security system and the birthworm with respect, but we don't have it as a change to attract voters in elections. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u33	Madam President. We're discussing national situation, and it's not as if things are going well on that level. Let the prime minister do so. I'd like to mention a few points in the short time I have. The infrastructure in this country is one of the most important projects ahead, and we left greens puts much emphasis on implementing, maintenance of road and general infrastructure as soon as possible. As it stands right now, there is a complete disgrace to this government as to how it has fallen into all these matters and then says: Well, this could be better if the private people came to the case. What kind of discussion is this? The protocol is unsupervised and does not rhyme with the government budget. With the increasing flow of tourists to the country, the country is insecurity. We need to ensure the security of tourists and road users in general and look for ways to promote health care and law enforcement that have been under great stress with this much increase in tourism. It discusses many national contracts, such as the prolongation of birthworm. My point is that the first government provided a prolongation of the maternity reserve of the present government. It's now, 15 minutes before the election, and all the beautiful promises. We left greens have proposed a church arrangement that has been prepared and agreed to see how to bridge the gap between birthworm and nursery, and we want to go that way to the end and work on it. We support the extension of early birthworm and an increase in the roof of maternity vacations. It is not credible, however, when men arrive just before elections, have knocked these cases off the table at the beginning of the season, and now it is all beautiful. Who will believe this when people watch what has been done in the past three years? They have not been for the benefit of the elderly, the poor, the young people, or the interior structures in the land. We left greens also requested a report on the interest of the elderly. That report is available. We want this to be followed by the fact that seniors and poor people receive the same levels of pay as employees, i.e. Three hundred thousand dollars we talked about here last spring and spring. That requirement is uncut. Older citizens are deeply concerned about their choice as well as those who are desperate. This government has been completely traitorous to doing such a great deal. V.E.G. Social Affairs ministers have promised, promised, and promised, but the wealth has not been what they could expect. This government's Achilleske is that the will of some is not possible because it is, in fact, a right - to - the - right government that is primarily concerned with privileged groups and that those less fortunate in this society have been left out. What needs to be done is a political change before this government succeeds in breaking more down the infrastructure of the country and the welfare system. There will be a change when the end of October is chosen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u34	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for this discussion today. It is important that we take time to look into the future and see how we see things developing for ourselves and what it is that we want to work at the council for a few days remaining in the council until elections and elections occur. That is why I am a little surprised at the small number of the words of government opposers toward the future. All right, of course, it is up to men to decide for themselves how to use their short time in the Senate Hall. Young people, for example, choose to live in an area where they can live. It's not that Iceland is an isolated region and there's no alternative for young people who are choosing a future but to live here. That is why we need to take good care that there are equal opportunities for young people in Iceland. We need to make sure that there is a place to invest and a future to be built. That's the big task we all face, and we all, no matter where we come from, should work together. I think that's what our people want to see and want to hear from this council. One of these is the home. We saw a government plan presented here today. Another part is the birthworm. I believe that already this resistance, which is our highest power. The minister of finance went over to a very good degree, has been taken in favor of the state's financial status, and we can see that it can be said that money will be added to a stock's stock. It is a promise of inseparation in contrast with what we saw for the last election when the promise list of the then state of government was published a few days before elections, about the others, and this project that was due to be carried out in the future. That is what this government has done; it has built a solid foundation so that it can be rebuilt. Let us examine how we make these decisions. I think it's the big job, both at the head of Congress that is now taking place and in the coming terms, because this is a way of fighting. We've turned in some down-and-a-half of the budget. There's more leftover this year than a limp of all last terms. That is the basis for the 10% absolute expansion of the highest government budget that has appeared to us in the programmes of this government. The difference between this government and the last government is that this is the basis for the plans we proclaim. It is quite remarkable to hear this propaganda concerning the government of the Independence Party and the forwarding Party just thinking of rich people. Of course, it doesn't stand a mind when you look at the tax doctors who have been announced and are going to go into effect at this time of the year, where all those under 800 years of age. K. ... willhavea tax reduction. [[Up front.]] Thus, the facts simply exist, and it is wrong that present political groups, no matter what they try to point out, claim that this is only the will of rich people. That is wrong when we look at what the correction has done. That is wrong when we look to one of the first tasks of this government, which was removing the impairments of the former government in difficult times to bring upon the elderly and the desperate. [[Up front.]] It's wrong to say so. So in my discussion, I miss that the government groups speak more about the future. I believe that one of the more important tasks for the next election period is to look to the health system. What will we do to strengthen it? The discussion of a large national hospital has been very prominent in the community. We must not forget that everything in the health care department is the basis, since all of us, the people in this country, have to trust that they have the best access to basic medical services, health care. Hence, it is a pleasure to look to the current health - care minister who stresses strengthening this field of health care. It's important. We've discussed much on a welfare committee, where there's good cooperation between all categories, how we can do this. We reached a very good conclusion, e.g. In spring on big business, on health insurance, and that's fine. During the council, I have experienced that when representatives of all classes come together for large questions, big cases, about how we will conduct our country's government in the future, listen carefully to one another, and try to make changes that benefit everyone, we will be very effective. We managed to do that on the health insurance. We were able to do so regarding the changes in the national courts, and we managed to do this regarding the change in how we approach foreigners in Iceland. We can work together so well, and we can succeed. I believe all of us in this room want it deep down. Although we may have to resolve our differences more often in order to access the media, we must never forget that when we really work together, work together, and look to the future, all of us have roads. We can do much good to our country, and we will be resolved to do so in the few days that remain of this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u35	Madam President. We'll discuss the political situation here. Prime Minister has expressed his vision, but as I look back, I see something else. I see chaos. I see a former prime minister who became informed of lying. I see a nation that doesn't trust politicians. And I see a bigger part of the government that responded to the Panamas by promising the people election but then yearned for months to name the election day. And there is still a strange warning against that promise of the nation. By morning, I heard so much. The minister of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson expressed his view of importance in politics, the definition of strengths and weaknesses there. There he drew and described so well, and I want to thank him for how a bright future as an undisputed force was in contrast with controversial politicians, like an advanced prime minister. For example, there are signs all around us, in the United States, and in Turkey, that there are two Polish people who are fighting for power and influence in the world. They are the ones who harbor divisions and fears, those who want to isolate and raise suspicions, and the others who proclaim confidence in their neighbor, freedom to action, equality, and hope. Such power is a bright future. We proclaim tolerance, liberality, honesty, and thinking about public interests, not the interests of the few who are under or in the gang. This appears, for example. in that we do not consider the possibility of an existing domestic contract going through which competition and equality are replaced in the milk industry. It is a major industry that, of course, should be in a competitive market. Yeah, we're indiscriminate. Maybe it hurts for a follow-up. I don't know. But I hope people appreciate it. We proclaim a forgiving spirit and a conversation that leads to lasting success. We're in the majority of our activities in some of the largest rural areas in the country. There are things that are happening that do not stir up disputes. What is e.g. news from Kopavogi? It's all good news from there. It's just good news that's something more than used to be used to. However, the political situation in Iceland still has much work to do. We humbly volunteer to do so for the work and for the people of the land. I hope we learn from the cost of recruiting people in power - related jobs and working for special interests. Let's not lose sight of who's waving at us the biggest money store in the world. Let's do it like the Presidential election. Let's go to the power of a forgiving spirit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u36	A respectable president. Here's the state of national affairs. It wasn't much to hear about the status of national affairs in either speech. Prime Minister or speaker at the highest. Financial and economic ministers only hold some numbers on economics and some financial issues. National affairs are far more than just economics. I think we need to take this discussion on a much broader basis. Today, we see a number of people standing in front of the General Assembly Hall and protesting that foreigners are allowed to stay on the land. It's all just something that rhymes with frightening times that have happened before. We have national issues to discuss. We need to discuss a difficult part of national affairs, not just numbers. Hv. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir said we had to discuss the future. We've been trying to discuss the future. We've been trying to find out when the election would start, but it wasn't until a few days before the summer council came back that a date was available, October 29. The last time such a weak promise of possible elections or national pay was made by that government, it was betrayed. It makes it easy to talk about the EU. At times, it is a tragedy to work at the Allied Assembly. It is particularly tragic to see the attitude of certain members of the greater part of the body. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, also chairman of the advance party, said, with permission of presidents: If things are going well at the council now and the government will not get in the way, it may well be that everything before October 29 is ready. If the government doesn't get in the way - we're here to work. We will continue to do our job. Although it takes longer than the highest. Then the government will want us to try to do our job well. If it takes time, it is because the government does not bring matters in early before the council. We weren't campaigning in the fall. It was the government. It was the government that is ruling here. I'd like to have it confirmed from the highest level. Prime Minister: Will he live up to this election on 29 October 2016, no matter what? Or are you going to bring this trumpet, no, we didn't finish all these good stuff, the 70 things that might be on the agenda? Will they vote on October 29th? Would you be willing to admit that there may not be enough time to speak for 50 cases of this brief council? We must set priorities, and we must do so together.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u37	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to be here again, and it's a great pleasure to have a good day for the meeting. It is particularly happy that 38 members of Congress have decided to shorten their own terms for a whole assembly and say more than many words about the government's position that it is the result of the government itself that the government is not in winter. Now men are not confident in elections until the end of October, and they may use the time they can afford to handle matters before the council, and peace can be resolved. It is not to be complicated, for there are few major issues before the council and quite obvious agreements on those with some disagreement. The chairman of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, is right. There is no way of breaking up a council today and making an election. There are no cases before the council that can't wait until the election's over. Actually, it was our advice in the United States that the election would be held in spring, that the election would be chosen in May; and already it was that the government had no issues to make that were of any importance so that they could not wait. All she ever held up was one bill of silence. But what has happened since we sat here in the summer to legalize that matter? The invitation on the Off-country got screwed up. The vital law was not more necessary than that when we get back together, the issue remains quite unchanged. Of course, a respectable president, it would have been much better to vote for a new assembly in spring, that we would have a functioning government with clear authority and will and some solid solidarity that so desperately lacks between the administrations and the members of the administrations in the problems that have been since. Of course, when you disagree with government policies, there is no reason to speak out of conduct. Although inexorably, the welfare system has grown and the welfare system is weakened, we can rejoice that we have not achieved the many major system changes, irreversible human social changes that were concerned that these large righter things would put themselves in place during the season of the election - with massive personalization in the banking system, by entering a better - to - do a better frame, by making long - term permanent agreements about private property of the ocean's resources, by altering land induction or by destroying lasting European opportunities. None of the big issues have been achieved. Thus, in the elections, the government has a wonderful opportunity to proclaim what the Independence Party is going to resist, to ensure that the nation's share of resources, national parks in the highlands, the restructuring of the financial system, and that the nation itself will succeed in bringing about the greatest affairs of the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u38	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. It is, as I came into my case, absolutely necessary that when we discuss the facts, the findings of the Habitat, and the others who give us information, we accept them when they're right. We can have a different view of what they look like and what they mean, but we must accept the facts. I also have to admit that in the case that has been discussed in most places, people have acknowledged that it is in very few ways how good economic conditions are, unique and prospects ahead of us to go into great construction on the insides and look to the future that we would like to have so much to look forward to, not having to notice the economic crisis and collapse on the autumn of 2008, but we took up these three months and have done it. It was mentioned that I had not mentioned that the fliers were 5.0% and that they were too high. I think most of us in here agree that they're too high and that it's hard to explain. We, however, have an independent bank and an independent money policy committee. I guess most people in this room agree that it should be that way. However, in August of the month, about 1% is inflation, and I mentioned that it must come in order for the money policy committee to consider what is going on when inflation falls below the U.S. Bank abnormalities. It was also a pleasure to hear from the chairman of the left movement ◯ green initiative, that, in her opinion, there is plenty of time to make a number of cases. I agree. There's plenty of time to start new things and finish them. I am also happy to hear the spirit of reconciliation that happened to the president of Björt's future that senators can be proud of how they worked in spring, and that we can stand together and work well, professionally, and effectively to resolve matters. It all rhymes with what I think it is that we senators want to be discussed with us and what we're doing in the hall. However, some cases of exacerbation were reported. It was a special topic that we had been decorating since 2013. [[Foreground on:]] Then came the result of 2014, and it is comparable to that in 2013, i.e. An equation is good in Iceland and a question of whether we are, so we pick up the patterns of sports that we feel very good after what we've been through this summer, either with gold or with silver or at least on a platform compared to other countries. It is still in good condition in Iceland, after poor economic management and the response and the action taken by the government to produce an increase of 55 billion for the sake of socializing in the country during this ideal period. So they say nothing was done here. The fact is, we're here giving the greatest profit we've ever made in one year, and that's because of the government's actions, the big work we've done on the bank busters, the crews, and how we've set the money off. There are tremendous opportunities for building up in the years ahead now and in the years to come. We can begin to communicate, and then we can go to the election. In this room, there were all kinds of invitations. It would have to be done, and it would have to be done, and it would not matter that there would be possible swelling and inflation. [[The president calls.]] That's what we need to talk about, who's going to have huge tax increases in people and businesses. Or can we continue to maintain the stability we have built on it? There's credibility. [[The president calls.]] A religious course is important, and a policy based on progress that the government can boast is credible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u39	Madam President. V.E.G. Secretary of State, although briefly engaged, is probably aware of my historical interest in growing in Iceland's relations with East and Southeast Asia. That's Japan's front row. Not long ago, the High General Assembly approved my decision to make a free trade deal with Japan. I also believe that it is of utmost importance to these communications and to the Icelandic flying industry. A minister of the State also resorted to an attack on an air travel agreement with Japan. In fact, it was a beautiful story. At the turn of the century, Algorithmsson, Halldór name was Ásgrímsson, worked hard to make an effort to do so. After him, there's a very good deal to fill our needs with China, with Macao, and with Hong Kong. Japan lay behind because the Japanese were then very close in their dealings with other countries; they are now. However, at the agreements made, modern Airway technology has not tried in a way that provides reason. That, however, is changing. The fleet is changing. They're using long-range jets that are already in the Navy, which can drag all the way to Japan and to China. How important it is, then, that we succeed in adding Japan to the agreement! The Japanese are particularly desirable. There, the people have traveled extensively. She has a lot of money, and she has a way of travel that is very convenient for the international airlines, especially Icelands. Japan arrives in Europe and then travel to a number of countries, however, with its destination at one place. Today, they all go to Finland. Everyone in particular has the power to handle this market. That is where almost half of the direct flights from Europe to Japan are. I believe that with this change, we could reach out to ourselves a considerable amount of Japanese markets or the part of the Japanese tourists traveling to Europe. This, however, requires negotiations. It's complicated making deals. Today, the old agreement from 1944, which is taught by Chicago, allows airspace and land on Customs but without trade. You will need special contracts for both a plane and a passenger flight. That's why I've made this suggestion. I believe, especially in view of the fact that we are the only northern country that doesn't have such an air travel contract, to the highest level. A minister should be convinced that it is a special phase now in our relationship with Japan, i.e. The 60th anniversary of a political relationship, to get it through. Then I'll assume that next week a Senate committee will be here from Japan. [[The president calls.]] Then I think it'd be possible to hit like two, even three, flies at one strike if the highest. A minister would be able to meet with that committee and discuss the matter with her. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. For many years, Iceland has called for a discussion about the construction of an air traffic agreement with Japan that has, unfortunately, refused such an invitation. Have such requests been offered regularly at the meetings of the officials of Iceland and Japan and with the minister of foreign affairs. That's why you're here. in November 2014, the minister of foreign affairs in Tokyo followed up on the official visit to Japan in March 2016. Over the years, Japan's key arguments against conversation have been the birth of tourists traveling between countries and a small amount of space to open up any further landing permits at airports. In general, the Japanese government will evaluate the situation so that Japan does not have enough demand for air travel contracts. However, the Icelandic government has regularly pointed to an increase in numbers of Japanese tourists, a number of which have grown from about 3,000 in 2002 to about 17,000 in 2015, which is about 17,000 in 2015. An 80% increase. Travel agencies in Japan have planned a trip in the fall from Tokyo and Osaka to Iceland since 2013, where four such flights are planned in the fall. The authority to a rented flight requires approval from a U.S. House, and she always wishes that a mutual agreement with such a permit would be respected. Air travel agreements, however, are primarily designed for regular flights for commercial purposes. Iceland is calling for the most widely distributed rights in the contracts that even allow pilots to fly between treaties in Iceland and the United States without any incident in Iceland. It is likely that both Icelanda and Wawair will soon have long - range machines to plan a flight that would be free of internationals to Japan, but in order to make it possible to make a flight agreement with Japan. Since both pilots have shown interest in this flight route, it is very important to convince the Japanese government to have these negotiations. Although Iceland noted that negotiations have dealt with most of the neighboring countries and that Japan has made a deal outside Iceland in 2012, there has been no success in the repeated efforts of the past few years. However, I wholeheartedly agree. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's buggy that it is reasonable to use the 60th anniversary of the European Union and Japan this year to apply to Japan's government for its turning point to the making of an obligatory declaration of an air travel agreement between the states. I believe it is my option to send a special emissary to break up the matter with the Japanese government, and it can be used a turning point in national relations for that purpose. Also, I plan to film the case when I meet a Japanese delegation next week.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u41	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for clear answers. Of course, she agrees with me because there is hardly any creature at our highest level. The minister disagrees, let alone this particular matter that is of great interest. You're absolutely right. One minister says, and I experienced in my own skin as a minister when I went on such a journey to Japan as her predecessor, that they are backward and in places, and do not want to negotiate with a small country as we do. That is why they also oppose making a vacation deal with us. But we are a close alliance with Japan. They also need us. We travel with them in a community of Western democracies and build our community order on the same rules. They should not come up with any reference to our smallness. There's no harm in working together, and it's not as clear as it should be. V.E.G. A minister is aware that my inquiry was submitted in spring. At that time, she had a sunny summer. Of course, I was going to suggest that she spend some of it on her own to go there during summer because of a big deal of interest. They would have trusted in their dealings with this nation, and they could also have prepared a vacation agreement with us. The Japanese also need us in another sense. We are the founder of the Atlantic Alliance. Not long ago, Prime Minister Abe arrived at the headquarters of the Brussels Atlantic Community and called for a solidarity and understanding of his position. He is in a more delicate position as prime minister of the nation because you see there is a rising wolf in Southeast Asia between the Japanese and the Chinese. The Japs need us. It must be at that point that they will be told bluntly that we resent the gross way in which they treat us and point to the underdog. [[The president calls.]] If there's any argument we'll never accept, it's exhilarating. I'm the highest. A minister to the mementos, sharpening her to the law, but I am aware that she may have something more important to do in the next few weeks than to go to Japan. [[The president calls.]] Yet, I would do so if I were hers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u42	A respectable president. I totally agree with what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, yes, very often, it's true, because we never let it speak to us in a way that matters small and that we don't accept them as true. [[...always?]] I will take it specifically to the Council of Congress how they have referred to this and also to the increase that has taken place in the period from Japan. I also agree with what. A senator means business with East Asia was very important to us. There are many opportunities. Of course, there have been huge financial growth in Japan during the last few losses. And so I look to South Korea as a co-worker and we'd like to promote that relationship. There's lots of opportunities. And then, of course, flying is one of Iceland's most important professions and making a lot of currency money. In recent years, there has been great effort to increase the number of air traffic contracts, with Icelandic fliers running around the world. Now Iceland has made a total of 94 contracts and declarations allowing air travel to 109 countries, of which the contract can be applied to 100 countries. This is one of the things I'm going to mention, too, when I meet the Japanese senators that, of course, there's something special that they don't see fit to make these contracts when we've been able to negotiate with all these countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u43	Madam President. Of course, it has been a long time since this inquiry was submitted, i.e. in May. Already a partial answer has been made in a request made by another senator, part of what I'm asking about is answered there, especially regarding the cost side. As we know, the conference on the legislature of the Minister of Education took place. We discussed quite a few things about starters, who have been highly esteemed at the University of Akureyri, who has put their minds on the reading skills of basic schoolchildren. We criticized, and many more, the result and production of the Agency, very much of which was that reading skills were getting worse, and the situation in 2012 was particularly bad. As it turned out, it was as if nothing worse than in 2006, and then it did not produce fat and foot. But, indeed, and in spite of all of this, there have been little distractions in the world that is common, not only in Iceland, but in many other places, and may have many reasons for that. I'm not going to criticize it because we can't read better. There is something we need to put our arms together better than we have. This method of the Minister was highly critical. I'm asking how the campaign is and how long it will last. These answers reveal that there are five years of age. Perhaps it is too early to tell whether it looks like it's gonna reach its goals, but I still want to be curious about how things have been going, since it has been quite during the discussion that the project managers have been hired to take care of it, and they have left jobs. It is appropriate to ask a minister if the project held a lamp and would benefit those in the field in the expected way. As for me, I would like to mention that there was a lock - up campaign in the basic schools of Smokejanestown, Sandmaker, and Garggi in 2011 that produced fine results. Not only did it go well at home but it was requested that this be introduced to the university council of international relations in Stockholm, where they went. Here is quoted as well as the University of Akureyri, and I would like to add these questions and ask a minister if he does not believe that we can achieve comparable results with much less cost than this project would suggest using the support we already have in our community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u44	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for this inquiry, saying that I believe that a fine political reconciliation has been required to take action because of the position facing the lock. You're absolutely right. A senator assumes that there may be mood swings at the results of PISA research, but it is obvious if we look at the figures from the year 2000 and consider the skills we are facing that the situation we have in PISA is the one we have to take, and it's about 30% of boys at the end of elementary school who are not able to read properly for their benefit. If you find that incredible, it is wise to watch how much of high school kids come up from high school and go to high school, while 98% of the children do, then go to general school, i.e. is not able to start high school because they have not been able to study the primary school for themselves. It is about 27◯28% per year. I'm not saying that there's an exact correlation between the two, but I'm pointing out the numbers if you're wondering if the numbers that we're looking at are significant. I also want to make sure that the PISA is not a school test measure in Iceland, but it's a reading test. The ability of children to read badly is a huge problem, both for individuals and then for society. That's why I wanted to take action. I realize that for a child who has not been able to read, there is a tight cut to the end of high school education. This is because this is a danger to the union of those who can enjoy access to education and to those who cannot do so because they have failed to master the basics of education that are needed to acquire education, i.e. lock. The way we went, based on the policy I proposed in 2014, was to make a deal with all the rural communities in the country, with 74 of the rural communities that we agreed on to work in the locks. The key point is that this is not a controlled effort, so it is some one method or some one solution or one approach that everyone should submit to or work with. On the contrary, it is assumed that it is the schools themselves, the teachers, the local rulers, the parents, and all the people who are to take the initiative and work organizedly to ensure that their children gain this skills. It's a education agency and it's a lock team and a team that supports it, to support that operation, of course, it's all about the schools themselves. We rely on the skills of the professional and knowledge, and then we want to support it. In my discussion, I have sometimes heard that it is as if people were giving up on some kind of one method of reading. It's so far away. We know that there are more than one way to teach reading. It is the teachers who are to find the methods that are appropriate for each student. This, in turn, should be our support. So it's true that we're laying up with e.g. A screening test so that we can monitor as closely as possible so that we can act as soon as possible. We know that as the kids get older and have not gained this ability, the more likely they are to get into trouble in their studies. After the kids grow ten years, the study begins to gain weight in their school articles. If they have not been able to read well at that age, these things will start to get very heavy and difficult. Hence, it is important to pay attention to our children, to support their teachers, to support our parents, so that we can be more effective. No matter how complicated it is, it is not acceptable for us that such a large percentage of children in Iceland are in this crisis. I repeat it. This is reflected in a specific way in the numbers we see in regard to the number of children who come out of high school and who are not able to start high school. This, a respectable president, is the reason that this reading celebration was taken. Yes, it costs money, but the funds that go into the lock collection are small compared to the cost of society if we do not achieve better results in locking. Again: This is not to suggest that there are only one or two ways in which children should be taught reading but, in common with the parents, teachers, and then the Ministry of Education and Education to support this, to stress that there are lock plans, there are tests, there are tests. But first and last, there are the local teachers who are known by methodology. [[The president calls.]] This should then be supported. That is where parents are most important. That is why when we signed our contracts with our communities, we also did so with our parents, home and school, because it is all important to get parents to lock the door.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u45	A respectable president. I can totally agree with that with the highest. Minister that it is not good if children come from basic schools. But I am very critical of this effort, and the 600,700 million who are making a success of it in five years, just the methodology. If it's really so hard to read in school that children don't read out of elementary school, then there's gotta be a system modification. It must be necessary to examine the teacher's study or take more drastic measures than to hire legislators who are supposed to go to school and tell teachers who have their teachers to do what they should do. I saw the pre-requisite plan. I have to say, as it is, she didn't seem trustworthy to me. I worry that money is not well spent. I agree with a minister that, of course, it is important that the children get a doctor out of the schools, but I worry that we have this operation to waste money and that we don't get it for which a minister expects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u46	A respectable president. The lock - up project, or national campaign, is a vital work that I still expect in the form of support for homes and schools, as homes or schools call it. However, the task is vitally not controlled. Hence, it must be clear what is the role and responsibility of each individual in the project, of parents, of school, for school, for the local government, for the Ministry of Education, and for the Ministry of Education. I have noticed that a very different view of the project is based on parts of the country, just by the way it has been achieved. For example, in the East, the project works together as a team to improve the study in an Oriental country that is being done in schools, and the initiative comes from schools themselves, parents, and a school office. This has been a happy time and is really turning themselves into each home.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u47	Madam President. I thank those who have participated in this discussion and minister for his answers. Don't get me wrong. Of course, all of us want our children to read, and all of us have equal access to study. A minister is eager to say that this is not a controlled effort, and it is not the only method. It's a medium-directed campaign, it's all set up, it's guided by a High School Institute of Education. The method can be varied, I'm going to agree with it. I certainly hope that in the future there will be successful results. But I do have a lot to do with it. Even though it's the highest. A minister says there's not much when it comes to considering that all children will be read, then I'm talking about how we could have spent the money in nearby society in a better way than here. It turns out that because of the total success of Southnes, it was not necessary to read in terms of the Ministry, so much of the success has been achieved, the attention to the rocks as I did earlier, including the above. in Sweden, where Sweden has been fighting similar to the one in PISA surveys. Also, I would have wanted to see that there was some kind of reading fund that could be joined. But it is actually expected that people are being encouraged to attend the sceptres and the development fund of study aids and other factors, but it is not being made up of money. We know that we are competing with all kinds of media when it comes to reading. We need to consider new methods that are likely to be under way. I agree with what's been said that I'm concerned about this operation plan. I'll ask you again the highest. Minister on the status of these task managers. How many were hired and how many have quit? If so, is there any particular reason why?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u48	A respectable president. What I think matters to you is to realize that action was necessary. It was impossible to see the passiveness that some 30% of Iceland's boys were at the end of a elementary school not to be able to read for themselves and that evolution would be our return when it came to teaching children to read. These are remarkable findings that we should take to heart. It would be irresponsible not to take action. Here's critical: This operation is not good enough, we want to do something else. I haven't yet seen from any distribution of any other ideas, how men would have exactly wanted to react. What's being done here is an agreement with all the rural communities in the country, each of them, that a special lock-lock program will be made in priority for all the school - run communities. A screening and development of these tests is recommended. And we're going to have help with the teachers. There's a special team that I know that has been in cooperation with one 17 rural communities and that is increasing in the number of schools and rural communities in particular. Others are working hard at this without any special help. I'm convinced there's more focus on this matter, i.e. We're sharpening much of the reading in every school all over the country. I've been around, and I've met teachers, school leaders, and local government officials, and that's where this case is at the top of the circle. We are going to succeed. The approach we have made is not some central program on how to do this. But it is true that there are legislatators, a natural arrangement, who, in turn, give their expertise to those in need of it. But the main point is that every community and every school will find its way to this end in cooperation with parents and parents in the local community. How in the name of a respectable president can it be called some kind of medium-directed campaign? [[The president calls.]] It's just wrong. If you think it's like that, there's some misunderstanding. The important thing is that it should be reasonable and reasonable in political reconciliation: We do not let it happen to us Icelanders that so much of our children cannot read for their benefit at the end of elementary school. [[The president calls.]] The money we put on this project is small in comparison with what is underneath. So I don't regret a single cent that goes to teach children how to read in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u49	A respectable president. We went here at the National Assembly of Iceland, a big, important step when the Icelandic and Icelandic Sign Language laws were adopted. It was a happy day for the community of those who relied on sign language in life and work, as well as for a happy day at the International Parliament, where all members of the Parliament supported it. It was a good feeling to be a part of that vote. We were all aware that we were taking part in a vote that we were taking a heavy responsibility. We just promised, we promised ourselves, that Icelandic Sign Language would have the status of the mother tongue of those who choose to use it in their daily life, thereby providing information, education, and access to society's institutions on the basis of sign - language status to have equal access to Icelandic in comparable cases. I think that at the same time, it was clear that we were very far off in the country and that we needed to take a strong look at the language environment of deaf and deaf children, the educational opportunities of this group, the educational opportunities of a native language, both directly trained in sign language and also directly through sign - language education, the translation of classes at all school levels, and, of course, at the mandatory level of sign - language translation, and thus, by means of availability of quality. The duties are on the shoulders of the minister of Education and Culture because there really goes the minister who is to be held over the rights of this group and to ensure the level of status that has been considered here. On the basis of this, I ask: How have the Icelandic government maintained the Icelandic Sign Language since the Law? What is done to ensure that children have the opportunity to learn sign language and to use it in everyday life? What is done to support the children's speaking and teaching? [[The president calls.]] How is education and training in Icelandic sign language provided for parents and children with poor hearing?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u50	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It's so in the 3rd C.E. the law as a matter of course. One senator referred to Icelandic Sign Language as the first subject to those who need to rely on it for expression and communication and for government support and support. The Ministry of Education and Culture had in mind a law on reviewing the principal textbooks of High School 2013, which discussed the rights of deaf and deaf children in a clearer way than had been. This set was set at the end of grade 4, 7, and 10. includes Sign Language and Communicators with and without sign - language formulas, although there are no special criteria for sign language in other subjects or in the field of study. However, the need for special attention was given to the needs of sign - language students when they studied other subjects, especially in foreign languages. Special assessment criteria were set for school use as appropriate to describe the ability of students at the end of high school. Rather, it was suggested that the rights would be active in stages, and it was shown that expressions with and without sign - language strokes would lead to greater costs but that it would be difficult to specify the amount, leaving an application for each school individually, a supply for sign - language girl, and the potential for schools to offer such training. It was also considered likely that there might be an increase in cost at the Deaf and Hearing Center, due to the demand for increased service. A respectable president. The development of the ministry will continue to be observed. There is a need to consider the cost as the wind rises. It should be noted, however, that in the implementation of the law on the status of the Icelandic language and in Icelandic Sign Language, new funds were not expected to be taken to their induction without adding to a legal committee on Icelandic languages about 1.5 million. K. It has also been used in small ways by a language committee on Icelandic Sign Language. A respectable president. I believe it is important to remind you that on February 11, 2013, the day of the deaf was held for the first time. It knows why. denounced well, may I say, resort to great power and commendation for this sect. That date has been taken ever since, and it is important to make the most of it that day. There are other factors. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in preparatory work for funding is reserved for special financial resources, i.e. 10 million. K., for the publication of the study material in sign language. It is the role of the Communication Center and the National Institute of Education to work on the important task that leads to the greatly improved status of students in this study, that I expect. There I believe that for a long time, there was a lack of money to make up the study material. So I think I answered most of the first question why. The senator. The question is specifically, What is being done to support speech and teaching children with impaired hearing? It is thus to answer that the schools and elementary schools of the country have a legal role in education of children and young people, but also the role of communication centres in providing sign - language training and sign - language services. The Service Center places emphasis on caring for children in the language age and the students at all school levels. The Central Center provides education and counseling to the various stakeholders, schools, institutions, and others who provide services to sign - language parties. The center provides parents with instruction, advice, and information, and, of course, offers a way of learning. All of this is well - known, but it is important that the communication center is the heart in providing services for children and their families when it comes to sign language. A fourth question. For children, parents, and children with impaired hearing, a candidate will find it helpful to train children in Icelandic Sign Language. That is to say that I have already described the type of service that is being asked. Finally, though, I want to give an important part in the effort to maintain and improve good service where necessary. The task now is to make an assessment of education without separate schools, elementary schools and high school schools in Iceland in cooperation with and under the management of European centres with no separate and special needs. This assessment includes all the stakeholders of the school community, including employees, parents, and students in the sign - language field of the branch in Reykjavík. We will receive the results of this assessment at the end of this year. It can be said that the project has done well, and it is well under way. Then we'll win a plan or any government then in power, I expect, work out a plan for possible education reforms next year on the basis of the work that has been over and over for a few hours. I believe that on the basis of this conclusion, it should be possible to work on plans that should be of great benefit to all students.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u51	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. All I want to do is follow what was said in the language of the highest. Minister at the end of the answer, i.e. the factors involved in the evaluation of education without a separate set-up now in the cooperation of the Ministry and the European Centres on Study Without Distinguishing and Use, if I understand the highest possible meaning. Minister right. I'd like to ask if it's the highest. A minister believes that this is an adequate assessment as a result of environmental compromise and compromise. That is so when we are speaking of a group that needs to rely on another language in daily life and education that we need to be particularly concerned with rich language situations, speech encouragement, and language models. I know it's the highest. A minister knows both professional and personal experience how important it is for children to be brought up in a very powerful environment. This aspect, of course, does not depend on the assessment. There's a minister coming in. I know that in view of the special status of the group, the Society of the Deaf has sought to find a minister who puts him in particular for an assessment of a study offer available to this group. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he sees the surface of this factor in particular, perhaps. in addition to the assessment considered, or in any other way, given the particular status of the case. V.E.G. In particular, a minister referred to an Icelandic Sign Language committee that has received additional funding, while the seminar has repeated and in annual reports called attention to the status of children who rely on Icelandic Sign Language for communication and expressed concern that these children do not have access to sign - language society, and the language is not a language of teaching in the same way as Icelandic. [[The president calls.]] I hope I have an assistant at the highest. A minister in the understanding that this must be done much, much better than we are doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-15-132.u52	A respectable president. Thank you so much. Senator. I'd like to say that the assessment we discussed is to reach all the interests of the school society. As I mentioned in my talk earlier, staff, parents, and students in the sign - language field have been contacted at the branch school in Reykjavík, and they have been invited to participate in reviews and Internet surveys. But if that is so that more is needed, consider it. It's perfectly normal to have special eyes on this. That's even. That's why I've suggested at the council, or I want it to be done, that it will be funded to create an education for this group. How important it is that they have access to quality study material and variety in order to develop their language! As a result, I would like to use this opportunity to reflect on one subject that I have long intended to discuss. A senator, and I'll just do it from here on out. I've wondered if it's also necessary to examine the legislation in general regarding the services of the State. In fact, a service or sign - language service is being granted inside the educational system, health systems, and beyond anything else, as far as I know, a universal legal obligation that all government services make sure that those she needs to attend or have something under the authority to do so in her mother tongue. I have wondered, " Is this a matter that could be met at the council, that I should consult these laws closely, and that a clear law is that those who have dealings with the State get them in their mother tongue, i.e. We have already acknowledged this as their first language, their native tongue. I don't think there should be a big budget for us because we're already doing it in so many areas, like in health and education. I'm gonna roll it up and I'm gonna mention it to who. A senator, a respectable president, whether this is a matter that we may be able to pull into the past with a little too much effort. [[The president calls.]]
