ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u1	There have been three letters from the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms asking for every request to give written answers to the application for your application. 766, of the wild-fishing, of the Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjordsdóttir, and of the icicles on the icicle. 788 and 791 on committees, groups, and projects, from Birks Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. The President has also received two letters from the Ministry of Internal Affairs asking for every request to give written answers to the application for this request. 808, on expenses for expert, counseling and covering jobs, from Willum Þórsson and for the application of decks. 785 on committees, groups, and projects, from Birks Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. There have been two letters received from the Ministry of Health where request is made in order to give written answers to the application form. 789, on committees, staff, and project management, from Birks Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and on the icicle. 809, on expenses from expert, counseling and introduction work, from Willum Þór Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u2	Mr. President. The right to negotiate the purchase and terms, the contract, is tied in to our constitution, and is a key factor in getting the job that they want and fighting for improved employment. In recent years, we have discussed a number of ways in which we can pass contracts into some form of agreement. There has been much discussion about the Norwegian labour market model, which is likely to create greater social reconciliation and greater agreement in a labour market, but at the same time we have seen the development of cases in a domestic labour market concerned. Of course, in the last days, this is the development of events in Straumsvík. Councilmen have expected to have observed as well as the general population in the country, the ban on the country today, and how officials tried to perform the work there on the general staff who were then considered to be a strike. This, of course, raises questions about the party that runs the plant, Rio Tinto Alcan, which is behind long and very colorful stories when it comes to quarreling. It is minimal to remember that a six - month work report was held in Canada's Canadan branch, a so - called Alma steel plant, where 800 workers were not authorized to go to work for six months, an enormously intense dispute that would eventually be solved. Of course, when you look at this fine company's CV, questions arise that seem to be quite, much harder, and more difficult to deal with. I want to use this opportunity, and I want to promise both the labour market administration and the labour market authorities to ensure that this will not be the rule in the Icelandic labour market, that everything here will be carried out in a way that is on fire, even the unscrupulous threats in the air about the fate of the workplace. There must not be a rule in the Icelandic labour market. And we who speak in the second word about an increased agreement in the Icelandic labour market need to consider how we are going to make peace with them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a big deal for an Icelandic labour market how this controversy will be solved, but, of course, I hope like others that it will get reconciled. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u3	V.E.G. President. Three months ago, I asked for a written answer to the highest degree. Secretary of health. There I ask if there are any changes in management practices within the clinic or other health care institutions, and if so, the objective of the change and the intention of a minister is to carry the change under the General Assembly. At the same time, I ask, " Am I available to run a business at medical stations or other clinics? ' For three months, the highest. Ministers would not be so lenient as to their duty to answer me, but he answered me this morning in an indirect way. He asked me to attend a welfare committee, which, of course, gave him the opportunity to do and introduce us to a new management model, a financing model, a demand, on health care invitations. I'm not going to judge these actions, I'm not counting on it right now, but one thing I know, there's supposed to be three new clinics. Therefore, no special financial support should be provided; patients should be able to move between clinics, but 13 of you. You're also looking for a family doctor. And they're supposed to fit in with these changes. This is how the medical department has been treated. Why is it impossible to install a new financing model, find out how it works, and make further decisions on business practices? I think we in this hall are going to have to agree to change the health insurance laws of Iceland, so the General has to tell us which direction the health system is developing and cannot be taken safely to sneak behind the council with these changes. V.E.G. President. I wish to be approached by a minister with an answer. It is only natural that he will answer questions received from the generals. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u4	V.E.G. President. The ability to do what is right should be taken care of. A report from ASI reports that the product of ASI has dropped to seven stores between September 2015 and now in February. It has, in fact, dropped in ever so much, most in Businesses, less among other competitors. This is a good stage, but better, if possible, it should be done because the largest reduction in the period is 3.8% and the total amount has been made by 8% in the last 12 months for major bills. Still, that is well done because it does, despite the growth in the country, which is at the invitation of the Federal Bank, as everyone knows. But this does not change the contribution of these commercial companies, and it has improved by year and year by year as well as by year. However, they conclude that in spite of good motives, not all goods and services in Iceland are lowered. The oil plate has now been low for 313/432 and has never been lower. The time has grown since the oil companies in the country lost their price. On the other hand, they have used random discounts, despite the fact that Eurostion and no soccer match are available. But that doesn't change the fact that there's a reason for lowering oil and gas prices right now in Iceland. I'd like to guess one more thing, Mr. President. During the final inflation analysis, it was observed that the fliers had increased and thereby prevented a greater decrease in index number than otherwise. But last year's oil costs dropped by 5.6 billion dollars. They're estimating up to 14 billion, and the cargo goes up. [[The president calls.]] Something's going to have to be fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u5	A respectable president. At the beginning of the season, a vote on a proposal was made to offer U.S. informant Edward Snowden citizenship in Iceland. It was dropped, unfortunately, I'm saying that it is constantly becoming more and more familiar with every song of civil action, that is, international action, that Edward Snowden did when he discovered the goods of the American National Security Institute on Citizens and Governments around the world. WikiLeaks reported yesterday that the United Nations headquarters and Germany's Chancellor on Climate, as well as the United Nations Refugee Organization for Benjamín, Netanyahus Nanyahus, Berlusconis, Sarkozys, and others. They were and are certainly not sacred yet. In view of this, it was funny to hear the chairman of the Allied State Department of State talking about yesterday's military talk about the fine protection the government has in the United States. At the very least, it is clear that military cooperation is much closer to the United States than to its so - called friends people. I'd like to say again, let's go back to Edward Snowdens's case at the Council. He has identified matters that apply to the entire inhabited earth. Let's get him a home in Iceland. Let's be the land of transparency and civil rights, democratic responses. It would also be enjoyable in this context if the Senate issue would allow our case in a Bright Future for the legal protection of the informants, which we have brought along with the Pirates every year for years now. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u6	A respectable president. I come up here to call attention to the news over the past few days about Icelandic bank investments and pension funds abroad in the Norwegian shipping industry and the Norwegian oil industry, in Squeal and Havila. I have to express my concern about this policy or this release by Icelandic banks that have been fired and put back on with the support of government funds and are now driven by the direct or indirect responsibility of state funds, that it is the policy of these banks to go to another outlet, to invest abroad. While we are in the sea, the whole nation, the banks have been investing for many billions of people abroad, not distributing their risks, but bringing them together into some business we don't know much about, the Norwegian oil industry. Why do workers in the Norwegian oil industry have to go to Iceland for money? Something's wrong, right? Are not the interest rate lower in Norway? There's been a risk, there's a problem, and there's a lot of trouble when the Icelandic pensions are large-scale, instead of distributing the risk, are pushing it into the sector where they have no knowledge. I'd kind of like to call for a new agreement with the Bank of Iceland, which has now become a state bank, and he's going to be set up as the goal of the bank so much as a foreign power. I also want Icelandic pension funds to appear and describe their policy in foreign investments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u7	Mr. President. I would like to review a report published yesterday by the Government Accounting, followed by the challenge of many members of society who are concerned about the issues of children and young people. The report says this: When it comes to mental - health services with children and adolescents, it is a first - century challenge. At the end of the last year, almost 400 children waited for the services of the Development and Behavior Centre, which operates in the health care of the capital area, but is actually serving the whole country. Of these, 120 were on the waiting list for the KuGL walk and 208 on the waiting list for the State's National Analysis and Advisor Centre. The serious issue is that waiting time can take up to a year and a half. If we look at this as a National Review Board, we can assume that some 16,000 children and teenagers in this country are in the position that they will ever need an intervention or mental - health special service. A public opinion suggests that the long waiting period can lead to a much greater problem and can even lead to a large number of children and young people ending as micromaths. A public opinion that the direction of the government is lacking in organization is critical. A clear schedule of guidance or strategy for meeting this need for service has not been established. The number of assessments, reports, actions and all kinds of documents that have not been completed has been made. These services need to be accessed regardless of their location and prevented from forming some gray area between systems. This long waiting period, characterised by mental - health benefits, is unacceptable to young people. A respectable president. We need to gather together and handle the present mental - health practices. Not only do we need to ensure that it will be carried out and that waiting time will be reduced so that the situation that too many of the families of this country will be faced, without service for weeks, months, and years, will begin to end. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u8	President. On the news, the director of the National Activation reports that soon he realizes that the company can start to pay about 10 to 20 billion in the interest of the company's government funds. On the contrary, he envisions slowing down a debt that has been put to considerable emphasis until now. If news is correct, Landing owes 240 billion dollars. President. I think it's right to remind us that land induction is a state-of-the-state business and if anything great comes up, e.g. If the fortress is destroyed by natural disasters, so are we, the taxpayers, who pay the bill. You can recall what happened at the Crooks and see that it was the taxpayers who paid the damage. But now Landing works well, and it's a good thing to pay off debts. The debt of the company is now like one piece of Icesave, in order to put things in perspective. Every time you have land-reaching and activate, it's done with a loan, but it may be a good loan, I don't know it well enough. But I believe the company will continue to pay off debt and do it quickly. It's far more important than paying $105,520 billion, which is just something we hope to have. We're more supposed to pay off our debts, I say. Besides, there is another one. If national activation continues to activate, the company increases its debt further. It also increases the emissions of currency in the form of loans. I have no doubts about the good purpose of the director of the Land-activation program. But it is important for us in this hall to exercise our long - term thoughts. [[The president calls.]] We should constantly be thinking, not how we are better at right now, but how we create a better future for our children.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u9	Mr. President. A public opinion was to report mental - health services to young people. For one thing, it shows that the long waiting period that has marked mental - health services for children and adolescents is unacceptable. In addition to opposing the legal obligations of the State, however, this wait for both its long - term interests and the well - being of its citizens is in danger. Unless the mental health problems of children and adolescents are taken systematically, as soon as they are observed, there is an increased likelihood that there will be heavy and long - term consequences, even disability. Furthermore, the report states that when it comes to mental - health services involving young people, governments have weighty responsibilities. The laws on health care, patient rights, the laws on the affairs of disabled people, and the United Nations Convention on Child's Rights ensure that children and adolescents have the right to as perfect health care as possible and should be given to governments to provide care for their welfare. The need for children and adolescents in this country for international and special services has not been determined, but has been determined from a comparable need for service in this country and in other countries. As such, it may be estimated that about 16 of you. Children and adolescents in this country are in the position that they will ever need an intervention or special care for mental health problems. A member of this group feels that missing that service may be questioned by the government's success and commitment. His assessment suggests that it might be. I have repeatedly pointed out the seriousness of the situation in this language. The report shows that since the year 2000, seven reports and strategies have been published, showing that the situation of this issue is ablaze. Seven reports and strategy, Mr. President, and what's the situation? What have we been doing in this group? Is it not time to let the action speak, or should we wait for another report? Let us meet the source of the problem and fill the unequivocal duties of the government. We have the opportunity now, governments, and members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u10	V.E.G. President. When North Korea did a nuclear experiment last January, the nations quickly denounced the action, normal. When the same nation launched a satellite that most people view as proof that they have the ability to launch a long - range rocket, that action was also condemned, back to normal. It is worth considering, however, that when the United States experimented in January with a new form of a small nuclear bomb in the Nevada Desert, nearly no protest was heard from the international community. Once again, little was heard when Americans attempted a few days ago by means of a long - range nuclear bomb. Meanwhile, the Russian government reports a wide structure of its nuclear weapons. In the following months, the British government is planning to make a decision to renew its nuclear weapons. I don't think there's anything to do with Chinese nuclear structure. But it is not that all the countries of the world do not care about this report, for last year a team of 123 United Nations workers met who want to find ways to ban and eliminate nuclear weapons. Iceland, however, is not part of this group. Why is that? Is it possible that Icelandic Parliaments in general are in favor of nuclear weapons? I don't think so. But by then Iceland has repeatedly joined a group of nuclear powers, and Iceland has just voted against the ban of nuclear weapons, or at best we have passed. Last November, I asked a question to the highest level. Secretary of State on the votes of Iceland at the UN General Assembly and on the issue of nuclear weapons. I'm sorry I haven't heard any answer to that inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u11	Mr. President. It seems that the black industry flourishes as never before in the Icelandic labour market and especially in the expansion area of the big-city area with young people and foreigners and more often than in the construction sector and in the tourism industry. The unions have seen this and are growing in violations of people, and these fractions are becoming more presumptuous and more serious than previously known. This is a truly serious development that can be replaced if nothing has to be done. It also contributes to the weakening of corporate competitiveness when these types of activities are involved in a workforce. We know that the labor movement is now engaged in this black business, and many ugly things have come up on the surface that are unpleasant, the way they treat employees who may not know their rights, or who are not in the social situation of reaching their rights. These include reports of people who simply attended, as we hear in the news. These cases may not be the only examples. It is natural to be involved in such activities in an Icelandic labour market. In my opinion, there has to be more demand for a job than it is now. It's not just that a trade is responsible for its employees, it's the whole chain down. It has become quite common to think that it is a labor market and nod, and it is a long chain, and no one believes he is responsible for it, even though all sorts of mess with some subjugation. [[The president calls.]] I believe the Lawgiver will have to shape the legislation from this point on and take vengeance on the violation of Icelandic workers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u12	V.E.G. President. I'd like to call attention to the serious situation in which Icelandic desiccant manufacturers are standing right now. This is because global oil market prices have dropped, and this leads to a land like Nigeria, which we have sold out desiccant fish. Shaking, dried bones and heads, can no longer buy from us, for they have established currency capitals we know. In addition, the Nigerian government has a large increase in the import of dried heads, resulting in a reduction in sellers prices of up to 40%, while consumers have to pay higher prices for the market. There are about 20 companies in this country that specialize in drying out the Nigerian market and are wide and wide around the country. According to a loose summary, the number of annual activities in this country is about 450, and in addition, companies that are specialised in this industry are directly or indirectly involved. These include engineers, electricians, metal industry, and others. The transport partners, either land or sea, have also had considerable interest in this production, and it can be assumed that the transport costs alone are at another billion dollars annually than they would have to evaluate the import. Last year, about 24 you were moved out. a ton of dried products to Nigeria, and last year the Icelandic company carried seafood there for the price of about 15 billion dollars. It is clear that the government has to work on opening this market again, for if it ends, we are in the position that it can be lost forever. There is, of course, a great loss for national preparation, no matter how you look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u13	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss a report by State Review of the Council on Mental Health with Children and Youths and the challenge of eight members who work on these matters and agree to each word in the report. Clearly, we take this challenge seriously because there are others in it. The senators discussed this matter, my dear. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and what. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson. This is a ongoing organizational and system problem, so despite the efforts of governments over the past few decades to correct this, it has resulted in the regular collection of waiting lists in which we have tried to deal with the problem of routine action. According to the report, assessment of the need for service is missing. Please refer to foreign studies and estimated that about 80% of children will never have to look beyond their basic services, but the service levels are three; basal, local, and special services; and that approximately 16,000 children and adolescents will ever need to be maintained. At the end of 2015, the waiting list is for that service, according to the report of 718 children. Of course, it is faced with cohesive and overlap problems where the project is on the table of a number of people at different administrative and services levels. Therefore, to achieve coordination and cooperation and clear work and responsibilities of services, the government is called for clear guidance in these matters. It's a theme proposal for the highest degree. The HCP on the physiotherapy and mental health management programme is now under way. A well - being committee and there is an opportunity to address the root of the problem and to strengthen the basic services that improve the system as a whole and over a period of time. A public opinion thinks it's totally unacceptable and, therefore, I would like to, a respectable president, encourage some. the welfare committee to review specifically the details and special services, both with the system solution in mind, as well as with the need for concomitant efforts to eliminate unwanted waiting times and waiting lists. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u14	President. During our last assembly, piranha and I proposed a matter of Congress, there is an equation of access to the Internet throughout the country. At that time, we were told by members of the board that suggestions were being developed by a group of people. Since then, many things have happened. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson whether he is not concerned about what appears in the conclusion of a representative of the Oriental community. Company representatives of the East are protesting with great weight as the Eastern Community has been introduced by a group of workers throughout Iceland light - linked and with their distribution of 500 million. K. which is intended for the work on the budget. In this way, rural communities are faced with some kind of auction for very limited money, and in reality they are responsible for the cost of fiber - opticization in Iceland to the rural communities. The smaller rural areas, which have no part in this race, will remain, and the gap in the service level of communication among the inhabitants of this country will grow even further. This channel goes contrary to the expectations given when the work group returned their report on spring days 2015, and Prime Ministers introduced it. These suggestions are required to be reviewed promptly, as well as repeatedly supported by the ideas presented in the above report, as the project was as much cohesion as the development of high - speed replacement services in the region. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether he cannot agree that this does not fall beneath equal access to the Internet, if he is competing for some sort of quota. Is this a thing to fix, or is this government policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir for bringing this matter to the attention. It's a big deal in the community that these sales are never too much to discuss. I am completely concerned with the government of the East, but this is once so that when it comes to business, and it finally - and I would have thought so. A senator rejoiced that the government was finally setting up money and implementing this important matter rather than speculating over the way things are done. I'm almost certain that no matter what the proposal may be, and it shall be noted that the staff has not yet submitted proposals to Ministers, but today they are working by means of telecommunication funds for the telecommunication fund to communicate a place in the market failures. This year, we will most likely suggest that rural areas be spread through grants in their areas, which, in other words, means that we will likely suggest that these limited funds will be provided to spread to three, four areas, in the northwest, northeast, and south areas, in proportion to the number of unrelated places in place. [[The president calls.]] We're trying to make sure it's spreads all over the country, most in the worst places, but we can still debate where we're going to start. [[The president calls.]] I think the most important thing is that we're starting this important piece of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to make up the subject of a case that was canceled today or yesterday after a six-year lawsuit, a case based on the Secret Bank's rules of currency that had not at the time begun legal approval of a minister. This is the Azerta case, where a prosecutor and then the head of the Department of Economic Affairs, Gunnar Andersen, will start the case at a press conference where they will report that they will cooperate with the Federal Bank, the Economic Crimes and the SEC will start an investigation on this matter. Samherja, based on the same currency rules, found that it could not be followed in any way because the rules were not in force. A respectable president. Now, for six years, four young men have been subject to a decision to sue on the grounds of a non-authorized currency policy. They were named six years ago, a respectable president. After they have been declared righteous, they are now dismissed. ... state. It's perfectly clear that in this case it was started wrong. This is the right case for individuals to be broken. The state of justice on two matters, based on these regulations of Iceland's Secret Bank, which did not have a legal consent, has cost individuals not only their reputation but their financial resources for six years, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] Who will shoulder responsibility for such compromises? Is it the Secret Bank, the FDA, and the State Attorney? Or who is going to take responsibility and show the people and the cities in the country that people are not treated that way? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u17	A respectable president. A 140 billion agricultural contract is a marvelous opportunity for improvement in agriculture. This is badly done in a new contract, with largely an extended out - of - date subsidian. That political one does not bring success to farmers or consumers in the country. It must be criticized that this council is taken into account for a longer period of time, that it will not be until after three general elections that can be made changes in these matters because the contract will tie up the Congress's budget for ten years while it appears to be a review of the agreements that will prevent the small system changes to be made in the contract. We need a much more progressive agricultural politics than we can see here. Of course, we must hope that if it does not take until the next decade, it will result in a fall from the saying of the saying system. However, much would have to be done sooner, for this makes it difficult for young farmers to take up a course in this article and to place heavy loads in weddings and on interest costs. The problem with this agreement is, among other things, that despite this large amount of money, it is not to see that agricultural management conditions become much better at the end of the contract period than at the beginning because of the failure to deal with the problem, humans do not concentrate on improving the competitiveness of agriculture; it is not, in fact, the promotion of competition and the positive effects of the article. What's going on in agriculture? There are many costs that result from loneliness and competition. 100 million. K. During a ten - year period in an average milk home, there is a lot of money. I'm convinced that we could use that money much better for farmers and consumers because these 100 million people. K. Do not go to farms. They go to weddings, they go to excessive interest costs, they do expensive work, and they go to a few at the grocery store. Instead of coping with these projects and making the agriculture more competitive and more business conditions, the effect of continuing to subsidize these bad management conditions from a government fund and, of course, in part, to allow taxpayers to subsidize their own prices, which can, of course, be debated as to whether it is a reasonable arrangement. It must be demanded that when it comes to agreements over such a huge budget for a longer time, more money than earlier, and so that two terms of interest will not be changed after the contract is made, the minister who has a broad agreement between parties and interest groups, with consumers, with labor movements, and with democratic debates. But that has not been the case. With the nation and the council, the prime minister has recently said: "It's over, let's face it. We must protest it. We must call it a discussion. I trust there's going to be laws here and they'll be here for a discussion, and depending on the events, they can change. I'd like to make a new move on the opportunities we've made before in the United States, which attracts the exception of competitive laws because it is my firm conviction that it would be a great step in the article to stop having men carry these enormous monotonous and subsidies, whether in the grocery store or in the middle of business, but to use competition for improvement in agriculture in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u18	A respectable president. It is true to make the original statement that these contracts, of course, are long known and have been for a very long time. The beginning was to prevent the cross-react of pay and prices, which, in turn, prevented inflation from raising and paying down prices to the public in the country. I've been doing pretty well, which I can do better. On the other hand, the bow was directed. scolding a few questions to me that he did not discuss in his case, in fact. This included a request for logical support for long-term livestock contracts and increased annual payoffs. The agreement on the working conditions of the bovine and sheep producers contains a major change in policy, which involves disappearing from the greeting system during the contract period. For sheep, the production today is no matter what quotas, but most of the support payments are linked to a so - called farm market that has purchases and markets. But both are being left out. The milk has access to the domestic market and has the support of a paymentmark. The policy is very clear; to overcome this system during the contract period, but final decision awaits the review of the contract in 2019. The main purpose of these changes is to separate from the acquired support and marketing programme and to bring about a huge increase in the cost of starting up and running. In recent years, many active farmers make significant commitments to breakfast, so it is inevitable to give a little more time and to ensure a sense of urgency in their business. In other words, no concrete. We have also adopted a new law on animal travel and set up regulations that require significant agricultural investments, and it is only natural that there is a basis for security. At the same time, there is the customs agreement with the European Union, which presents a significant challenge for the agriculture of the country. The increase in budget is mainly in the first three years, disappearing, and then the support is comparable to what it is today. It is mostly three-way: First, to promote the production of beefs, but now the door is for the import of a new genetic product of human strains. Second, temporary support for pig farmers who have to make costly changes in buildings because of new animal welfare regulations. This is similar to what is done in other parts of the North countries. Then third, pay out on cultivated land, which has the goal of expanding support ground so that support is not as attached to cows and sheep as it has been. This is a small start, but it turns out well, it is not likely that support will go further. In addition to these three key elements, there is increased support for organic farming, which is called largely from the consumer side, increased payment for the goat population, and then a temporary effort to test the potential for sheep farmers to export, and increased share in a food trade within the country. These are the big lines of the change. A little discussion has been made about whether they had a consultation with others. You will now find new features of these market contracts. So there have been consultations with the sector of employment, the Association of Industrial Affairs, the Favour of Professional Drivers, the Negotiations, ASI, Business Council, National Protection, the National Protection Association of Iceland, and more and more members we have met with, in some cases twice and in other cases now in the final meters. We have also had discussions with the directors of all classes here at the council to present the changes planned before the deal was concluded. Since some democratic conversation here in the hall has been said to have been needed, it is worth remembering that in the fall of this special talk about making new livestock treaties. The one who started this case was the United States deputy. It was an excellent discussion in which they were the ones who eventually reached the contract, all the factors mentioned, a roof of support payments, and other things, a big change. So it is not that one person or another has not been consulted. It is also true to mention this, and these are OECD figures, that in 1986 the agricultural support of about 5% of the domestic product was supported. In 2014, he was down to 1.1%, with direct support and protection. The rest of the OECD population returned at the same time from 2.8% to 0.8%, so we are approaching OECD very quickly. The European Union is nearly 0.9%. So the question is, Has this support been good? Yeah, he's been good. It's done a lot of good for consumers. In December 2015, Eurostat found that food prices in Iceland were the lowest in the north, so this has been the case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I look forward to a busy discussion from more members of the council today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u19	Mr. President. New market agreements have been signed by the government and the leading of the town organization, and now it is in the hands of farmers themselves whether they agree to the agreement and the Council to issue legal warrants for it. Farming is an important thing in Icelandic society, both to ensure food security and to maintain the knowledge that has already been built in the article that is already producing with the best available products in a wholesome environment. It is important to achieve as far as possible an agreement on a domestic agreement. It is hard to criticize the long - term construction of a livestock contract, ten years of age, by which new ones, such as interpolitical, consumers, and members of the article work. That's what I'm saying. Minister says. There have been warnings about the contract, the lack of all production management, and the induction of overproduction resulting in compression and reduction in the numbers of traditional family members. It is my opinion that there should be a direct link between the lower price prices on consumer farms and the support of the State to the local article in the preparation of market agreements. I don't think paying taxes should be used to pay off Icelandic agricultural products in foreign consumers. It is therefore important to maintain the level of agricultural prices within the country. Agricultural discharge must be based on practical grounds. There have also been concerns about the impact of the contract on the borders of the country. There are concerns I think should look around and look at. In my opinion, the aim of a new livestock contract should be to advance development in the article as sustainable and sustainable means, to promote wholesome goods, to build up and work in the country, and to make it easier for young people to start farming and that consumers enjoy the benefits of commercial agricultural products. [[The president calls.]] I'm not sure this deal is going to work out, and I'm not sure it's a lot of doubt. He is far from faultless.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u20	A respectable president. I thought it was interesting to listen to the highest. A minister describes an agreement that has taken place. It is obvious that we see it differently because I don't feel that it is necessary to consult if someone is introduced something because it wanted a senator to call for a special conversation about farm contracts. It wasn't the highest. A minister who arranged for that matter. I agree with what has been said that it would have required far more extensive consultation with all the stakeholders, consumers, shopkeepers, taxpayers, on this big and important subject. I'm sure we can make up for the important business of agriculture, but I don't think the government is even trying. I think it's a conservative deal. V.E.G. One way a minister referred to organic production was to increase its impact. I see in this frame of agreement 35 million in 2017. That's not much of an amount in bioproduct. I don't think it's very progressive. It's good to see that the goat's savings are written on paper. There's something good in this deal, I'm not making it down, it's a good thing that we're getting out of the quota system. But, in my opinion, it's all too conservative, too long, and not in any agreement, I'd like to say, to the important. I think I can claim that consultation with consumers has not been a great deal with this market agreement. You can talk about this forever. I also find it interesting to watch the agricultural system when it comes to sex pleasure. How do we get more women in this territory? Any other young people? We have a lot of toll protection. We need to talk about it. Will we not both have high outright payments or high levels of high strength and tremendous toll protection? It's basically just Norway that's going to keep us from doing this. [[The president calls.]] I'd need more time, a respectable president, but I'm afraid this will have to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. Although I could say that I was surprised by his introduction, I felt that he had not realized the key points of the agreement and that when it came to it, he did not fully understand it. The government has repeated during this terms, as many governments before, the solution to collective labour agreements. By their actions, the government has contributed to the establishment of collective agreements. The administrative sector now has a number of other measures strengthened and enhanced the sector's environment. I'm here to say that with a reduction in tax and customs, we've strengthened shops. It was particularly on the front cover of the Parliaments who were moved to follow the shift that we were moving the store home, strengthening it, and strengthening it. We have revised fishing costs in the fishing industry, and we have contributed to the work structure by reviewing the law on coincidence. These are all the things we've done to ensure long-term employment. It's the injury we're supposed to face and discuss market contracts, farm contracts that were now made for the first time until ten years, before they were usually made up to seven years of age, and for the first time with very strong opening rules. I reiterate that in my mind, there's a big misunderstanding that one of these things cannot be turned on for ten years. It's like, you know, there's two strong, big openings on these contracts. We are also making these agreements with a business venture that has been laid heavily crossed, as has been done here, in the talk of the Supreme Court. Minister, a very burdensome operation in agricultural regulations that will cost the agriculture less than 30 billion, just to keep it gone. It is also linked to this agreement of the new toll agreement with the European Union, that I believe, which will further increase the agricultural working conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u22	President. I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister on the work force around this. Is it not true that these treaties will be discussed at the council? Or is it merely written in the Ministry? I really hope they come to the council because I hear it all sounds like it's all mixed up, there's a lot of good in them, and there's something else that may not be working too well with anyone who's gonna be as important as this. What I find most interesting is what I have heard here today. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it may be that food sold for export is supplied. That we, the taxpayers of Iceland, are paying food to people in other countries. I thought it was for consumers in Iceland. Then I find that much interesting is being said in a talk at the end of the day. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's granddaughter's bramble. You can see this from so many different surfaces, all kinds of glasses you can put on. I can't wait to review these contracts. There are four of them, aren't they? You see, we need, like a what? paritaprevir St Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's irony came in, to get out of the conservatives only, and to dare enter the modern world with so much long - term contracts. But I'm glad there's a way of reconsidering this case, if I understand why. A senator just before, hoping to get a full discussion of the matter at the General Assembly in as open as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u23	Mr. President. There are various viewpoints and reasons for special support in agriculture. Food security, agricultural prices, and based policies are the most common. The organization has stressed that the agricultural system will be modified and that a more efficient structured system will be adopted, increasing the freedom of farmers, making innovation easier, promoting innovation, more efficient production, and improved consumers. Official support should be conditioned for the practical use of land, animal choice, sustainableity and environmental protection. You can argue that based concentrations or agricultural contracts, as made by the European Union, are far better off meeting regional policies than market agreements. The advantage of consumers is ordered to be served with the contracts and to show that the contract is also bad for long-term farmers. Both are unacceptable. The contract assumes that the money market will be turned away, and that is good. However, this is not to be done until five years from now, and reexamination regulations may bring an end to their plans. The amount of money has led to the development of public support to create an offer for good good good good good products in capitalists, loan agencies, and those who are prone to farming. A young farmer who buys into the system is in the same position as if there were no public strength. What do consumers get for the large amount of money placed in the market agreements? Why are there no steps that allow competition and competition to develop? Do the treaties actually meet the ground point? Or are there only a few areas that benefit, while treaties do not treat other areas? The General must ask such questions before confirming the agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for bringing up this matter and starting a discussion. I'd also like to congratulate the Minister on finishing this contract. Remember, this is a contract, in fact, between many parties. It's not as if it's a bill as a Minister at his office, it's the result of a long and long list of parties. We can talk about a high amount of money, but we can also say that it is a long time. It follows that as the contract time is longer, the amount of money will be higher if we want to try to blow it up. Does not the thought that we are subsiding food fail? We are subsidizing agricultural products, we are subsidizing milk and Icelandic meat, Icelandic organic meat, and what is more important than support for family members? Is it not true that a family of children benefit most from the subsiding of milk and meat products? We can go to a team and find a lot of things. The Bjarts future officer Pétursdóttir, found the amount missing in individual teams. We can totally break it down. But the goals are clear in this contract. I'd like to draw special attention to the community accounting and read from it, with the permission of the president: They agree to engage in activities aimed at trusting in infrastructure and living in rural areas. This includes identifying specific ways that contribute to the increased sustainable development of the rural areas. [[The president calls.]] I can't get it done right now, but it's in the frame deal and I encourage people to read this because it's about to subsidize a family and to strengthen and strengthen rural development. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u25	Mr. President. In times of importing Norwegian ice cubes, we must wonder if that is a good thing, e.g. When we're talking about climate goals. As a result, I think it is very important that we consider how to promote domestic agricultural production, food security, and food security, and that we leave a lot of things like moving ice from country to country that are likely to conflict significantly with the climate targets that Iceland has undergone. I'd like to say in the beginning that, first of all, I like that certain environmental issues come into the agreement. I would have liked to see the strong words spoken, and I would have wanted to see a climate center specifically on a committee. It speaks of protecting the outlook on the welfare of animals, wholesome products, environmental protection and sustainable land use, but if we consider these issues from this major issue, the views should be considerably more pronounced in this context. Involved agriculture is important from a number of viewpoints, not just from climate change but also from consumer protection, from our local interests and to provide food and food security. That doesn't mean I don't think there's anything to discuss with this new market deal. V.E.G. A minister declared willingness to speak, and certainly spoke to the highest degree. Ministers to me and told me of the main lines in the contracts, but the General Assembly is still putting up against a wall if it's actually been handled by the executives and the Farmers when it comes to subsidies at the General Assembly, a matter of commitment to a lot of money, insured to ten years. So it is that insurance will not be removed until after those years. Of course, there is a weakness in the case that no more cross-cutting consultation is available to ensure reconciliation on the important objective that domestic agriculture is allowed to flourish. There are a number of issues that will not be discussed in this discussion. I would have wanted to discuss the welfare of animals, including. The equipment of pig farmers who are being taken care of in the contracts. It seems, however, that these contracts are not as good as pig farmers. [[The president calls.]] I'd also like to say, in the end, that there's an old worry about overproduction by stopping the production connection and the link to the domestic market. I see I'm going to have to come here and discuss this later when it comes into the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u26	A respectable president. These livestock contracts were not dried up, and I had not studied their contents when I heard the highest. Prime Ministers say that criticism of the agreement is unremarkable, in effect, critical and repugnant to farmers in the country, the peasant class. I don't think it's very bad methodology to approach this discussion with such efforts to put the tone in advance when it comes to discussing this fundamental interest issues for the people of all nations. This is a contract for ten years. I'm sorry to be the man who says it's the best. Aggressor that his commission is only until spring next year, at most as indicated here in the hall, and that the contracts will extend to a very long time beyond the highest commission. Minister's getting closer. [[At most.]] [[Up front.]] When people are going to prepare their affairs for such a long time, they need to do so in a broader way. There are some things in this deal that I like about, e.g. The emphasis on organic and food production I would have liked to see more of those things. I would have liked to see more of the effort to get out of this system. We have a much larger market when it comes to the large number of tourists who come to our home. This must involve some opportunity. It may not be necessary for us to have a import head and tollovita and not be able to increase competition once the market has become large. But first and last, we have to be able to take this conversation differently than you feel you're a guest, that the hotel is a Hotel Adam, and that there's always some bullshit being told to you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u27	A respectable president. Most people, if not all nations, spend their food production in one way or another and strengthen it because of its importance in so many ways. The course that has been fired in recent years shows that we have been on the right track in these areas. It's like the highest. Agricultural minister came in earlier, the proportion of our nation's productions declines into this suit. This shows that at some point, we are leading the agriculture into a trend where it is becoming stronger and more powerful and luxuriant to stand on its own. That must be very positive. A new deal gives you a lot of opportunities to do all the work. He supports the increased diversity that must be very positive. Here we mentioned a gender ratio in agriculture, and we can be concerned about that. Is this not the very way to handle these factors? We can mention organic farming, which is now especially involved. During the last few weeks, a minister tried to solve the problem that existed in the peasant class, and it seems to have worked out well. Of course, a new customs agreement recently made by the Department of Agriculture is part of this because we are increasing the possibility of agrienvironment schemes to expand export. It is important that we keep up - to - date discussions. It's not surprising that you're with him. The members of the United States do not consider this to be the same as any other in explaining this without explaining that it all goes into an unnecessary middle and that the benefit of consumers is served and this is a bad contract for farmers. What is the policy of this class twice during the last term of the seven - year contract - twice during the last term? Where are their suggestions in the way spoken of? I am pleased to hear that from the representatives of other classes here, the discussion seems to be perplexing, and we are united in trying to reach an acceptable conclusion in this regard. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The party's out there a little bit, and it's not surprising.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u28	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. For decades, we astrologers have pointed out that the food system is expensive to farmers and consumers. It is a joy to see that the Minister of the Future Party now agrees with that viewpoint and to see how expensive the agriculture system has cost both to farmers and consumers, and at last to eliminate it. However, this long agricultural contract is the same as with the evil agriculture cry system, resulting in an increase in agricultural debt and high interest costs. It's just being extended in basically old-fashioned subsidian politics, which are then taken to the bank and taking out loans on the future. There is still a business environment that is much worse than in the countries around us. What is the problem of this bad business? It involves paying the cost of a wedding that is needed to avoid making money in Sweden. And in the United States, growth has to be paid much higher than that in the countries around us. That's what we equals people do when we say that this old-fashioned central management committee is not useful to farmers or consumers. It is helpful to the middle, and it places excessive interest costs on the article. It may be useful to one person who decides to leave the agriculture in debt, but it is a burden to bear to young farmers for a long time. 140 billion should be used much better than here, for innovation, and for progress in Icelandic agriculture, not this old - fashioned work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u29	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. Because of the last speaker's words, the one who started the discussion, I'd like to say that he was describing the system that people are getting out of. He wasn't describing the deal as he looks, how the situation will be at the end of this time. He was describing the cost of the eating system, and it is true, but it takes time to get out of it. In the European Union, the Promised Land of the United Nations, the decision was made to leave the quota system in 15 years. It's more time than we're gonna give up. The people continued for 15 years with what they had and stopped with their peddler system last year. We're putting up here with a contract, which is an application agreement, which means a variety of agriculture. There's something new in it and investment support. It is indeed being added to organic farming. It was very small. There's a plan to transfer because of the emphasis on the contract. It's a living document. It's long-term. There are two important reviews on him. Depending on the time frames, you can add money to the articles and the aspects of the contract that need support after four, five or six years. There's one interesting part of this deal that I didn't come from earlier, and maybe it's the first time in a government contract. It deals with gender, that is, an equal law that allows both men and women to earn their income from this contract. This is because we know that it has not been like that. Many factors are being dealt with here. Climates are still in there, even though they are not specifically said. The agricultural sector is designed to reduce the overall level of carbon dioxide in agriculture, to increase home levels of food. It is making big changes, and at the end of the contract period of this ten-year contract, the environment will be much better for the future, but it will begin immediately on the first day of this contract. I'll only be at the end of ten seconds, Mr. President, to talk about the work done. The contracts are about to make a presentation with farmers, then there are bill changes, tapeworm, turn to change, farm contract, and customs contract, which answer the relevant issues in the contracts. [[The president calls.]] And, of course, the contracts are being passed on to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u30	A respectable president. I recommend here for the bill to correct the change in food law, slaughtering and slaughtering laws and the protection of food, crop and seed products, which is a Senate document 871, paragraph No. 545. The bill suggests two changes in food production rules. On the one hand, regarding the monitoring of the primary production of food plants and on the basis of their MAH's activities producing food from capillaries, goats, and sheep's milk. At the same time, the bill suggests two changes that make it possible for the Icelandic government to fulfill its duties under the EEA Convention. First of all, the bill suggests that public monitoring of the production of the early product of food plants will be brought from the Food Institute to the Health Committee of the Company. According to Article 6. track No. 93/1995, on food, a food clinic will monitor the production of primary products. 14th degree. The same law says that a health - care committee has an official monitoring of the production and distribution of materials and things intended to come in contact with food. Today, therefore, food supplies are monitored by two organisations; the primary production in the Food Institute, while monitoring for packaging and distribution by health committees. Change of the a- team 6. the management of food so that the early production of food plants will be excluded from the food industry. According to the 22nd floor. The same law will monitor this production at the health-care centres of your community. Changes under the bill this will be a very simple setting for producers of food products that will only be under the supervision of one person. This is in line with the government's policy on simple and more efficient regulations for professional life. It is therefore not expected that the transfer of this observation to the rural community will have a significant financial impact, either for state funds or for rural groups. Secondly, the bill is suggested for Article 9. track No. 93/1995, for food, will be required to provide food from capilla, goat, and sheep's milk. In accordance with local requirements, there are three food companies free from the license of the official Rapporteur, i.e. those taking care of the primary production of food, as well as those who do sheep work or raise horses. The situation today is, therefore, that the primary production of cow milk is Marketing rather than the production of food from capilla, goat, or sheep's milk. It is reasonable that the same conditions apply to all dairy species, for all products are sensitive from a microbiological point of view and will also be subject to all the dairy regulations authorised by law No. 93/1995, on food. Manufacturers will be paying the expense of workavers. It is estimated that there will be an application in the Food Institute less than 20 of you. K. Third, bean-spair food companies should have a work permit. This proposal is made due to commitments under the EEA Convention, in particular the Commission Regulation No. 210/2013, of the agreement for fruit producing centres, in accordance with Council Regulation and Council Regulation (EEC) No. 852/2004. These regulations state that food companies should ensure that operating centres producing germinators are approved by a legal authority. This will set up requirements for approval by the Regulation. A major problem arose when a number of people died from food infections because of their eating beans in Germany some years ago. In the 9th. law on food says that food companies responsible for the production of primary food products do not need to work, but they need to report their activities to the Food Organization before it starts. It is evident that the implementation of the European Council Regulation, mentioned earlier, will conflict with this law No. 93/1995, on food. So it is thought that any adjustment of the type suggested here is needed. The food supply industry will have costs, but it is considered to be negligible. Today, the world's top producers are in Iceland and under the supervision of the Health Monitoring of the Hafnarfjörður and Kopavog areas. It may be appropriate to assume that bean sticks are very healthy, especially those produced in Iceland, since they are watered by public rather than by sewage, as plants often do in other countries. Finally, a fourth part of the Commission's Regulation is proposed to implement the European Commission's Regulation on the provision of additional animal products and the products derived from them. On the current law, in particular 17th paragraph. track No. 96/1997 on slaughter and slaughter products, and 5 mg. 7. track No. 22/1994, for monitoring of food, fertilizer and seed products, a minister is allowed to implement the earlier EB guidelines regarding animal-derived extra products, i.e. Regulation (EU) No 37/2010: 1774/2002. New regulations have now come into force to replace older rules, in particular the Council Regulation and the Council No. 1069/2009 and Commission Regulation No. 142/2011. These regulations have been adopted in the EEA Convention by decision of the European Commission No. 197/2015. Clearly, the laws that I mentioned do not allow a minister to set up a Regulation that introduces new animal products and therefore needs to be changed in order to be able to do so. The bill has been agreed on in a discussion with the Food Institute. The bill was sent to the Union of Icelandic rural society and Iceland's Farmers for information. The National Association of Economics and Developments made comments and after more careful consultation with the Food Institute, the Ministry decided to proceed with the Commission's proposal. A respectable president. I have now explained the key points of the bill and the reasons for its contribution and suggest that it be referred to a 2nd cover. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u31	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a panorama of international education and education committee with a revised bill for granting grants due to films published in Icelandic films here in the United States (center grants) at 2rd. You can find the nominee on the roof. 870 and the bill itself. 502. The committee has discussed the subject and received reviews from the National Film Center of Iceland, the Society of Industrial Society, the European Film Teachers Association, and the film director Association. The committee brought in visitors from these same organisations, as well as visitors from the Ministry of Education and Culture, and from the Ministry of Economics and Economics. When the guests thanked them for their contribution. The bill suggests that if the films are in the country and cost the producers by confirmation in Iceland or the EEA, they will be allowed to pay special tickets from the state fund. The bill lists the first edition in Icelandic and thus does not contain the spoken material, such as 2.g. Strength will be paid after, i.e. As shown at the end of the films, see the 3rd. g., and the strength of each movie should be proportioned to the total value of the commercial entrance to the exhibition of that movie in a local theater, as shown. With the bill, however, there is a further agreement between the government and the EU filmmakers, filmmakers' social society, and the film director's Association from 2011 on the policy of Icelandic filmmaking and film culture in 2012 ◯2015. The meeting meant paying ticket grants to offset the exception of the value tax on the sale of international films by law No. 146/2012, of financial arrangements. In accordance with the agreement, there will never be a higher fund than the World Congress's budget at any given time, as shown by the final term of Article 1. The bill, and the budget for 2013-2016 were determined to be 30 million. K. Every year until now, and 15 million. K. the budget for 2012, a total of 105 million. K. As a result of comments received by the Commission and comments in the review of the Office of Public Funds in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Commission considered that it would be appropriate to explain more closely how the topic of the bill deals with the EEA's State Support Act on filmmaking. As shown in comments to the bill, there is a growth in filmmaking in the sense of chapter 2 of the EEA Convention and a decrease in the reference volume. However, their budget is relatively low and therefore meets within the requirements for minor support, in accordance with Commission Regulation No. 1407/2013, change 107 and 108. g. The European Union's procedure for minor support, introduced in Icelandic just by Regulation No. 1165/2015. Other strengths that film producers can get in this country can be considered, but they are strong under temporary reimbursement in Iceland, No. 43/1999, and funding from the film fund, as per the Motion Code on Movie Fund, No. 229/2003. On the basis of these systems, according to the decision of the EFTA (EU) monitoring centre from 2012, there are two upper limits in Iceland for national support for audio and imaging projects. It accounts for 50% of the total and 85% of the cost of a film in Icelandic. Once a film has been strengthened from one of these systems, it is necessary to look for a maximum of 85% when providing minor assistance, e.g. In the form of a tracer. If support from the above two support systems is specifically attached to other costs than in the minor support groups, the minor support may be additional and the ratio may be higher than 85%. Therefore, you need to keep in mind the previously funded strengths and the costs of a maximum increase, as indicated by 2 mgr. Section 4. The bill. The Commission also claims to meet increased costs in which a tax cut off from the access point was dropped. Thus, it is designed to deal with the cost of the moviemakers during the year when the entrance is sold. On the basis of this view, it will not be considered that it is right to provide financial warrants between years of age. It was then the review of the Ministry of Education and Culture that the Committee agrees that it was the right thing to provide the funds that had already been determined proportionately after sale of accessories, as per 1 mgr. Section 4. The bill, can end with the means of assigning all the funds that were authorized for the budgets of the past few years. As a result, the ratio of strength per ticket varies from year to year. However, this is a temporary arrangement, and it is natural that in a future system designed to produce a bill for new film, the amount will be equal. Since the objective of the bill here is to meet the increasing cost of filmmakers in accordance with their agreement and the government, the Commission suggests that in addition to the 2013◯2016, the markets will also be paid for in 2012, in accordance with the agreement and budgets provided for 2012, as it was found in the Committee that the movie producers became in the year for greater costs due to the agreements that would not have been paid for unless the terms of the merit tax had been dropped a year before the situation became available. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be approved by the following change: instead of the year ◯2013 to the 3rd issue of Article 1. Come on, 2012. Under the authority of Director Konráðsdóttir Konásdósdóttir, Líneik Árnason Saevarsdótttir, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Einarsson, Hrafn Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Bjarkey Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þólmurfjörnarsson, Jólmá Ánasson, who María Sigmundsdóttir was absent from the case. The committee has then been identified. An authority requests that the matter be called into question, so an opportunity be made to review a further perspective on the implementation of documents from year to year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u32	V.E.G. President. In the absence of the character of the case, of course. State Department, huh? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjölm Bjarnason's son, I will explain the opinion of the State Department on a proposal to conspire on a free trade deal with Japan. The committee has discussed the matter, but the Synod arrangement is now being discussed on the committee for the second time. A mutual proposal was taken care of. The 144th legislature Foreign Affairs Committee was not held for a second discussion, then 127th was a case. The committee will support the discussion then given, building this committee's opinion on the previous payment. In an consideration of the 144th legislature, the committee was contacted by Bergþór Magnússon from the Ministry of State. There was talk of it from the National Association of Iceland, the State Department of State, and Iceland's Department of Trade in Japan. There was also a common review of the Associations of Employment, the Association of Tourism, the Group of Society's Fishing Road Associations, and the SVH ▪ Business Association and Service. This body of interpretation suggests that the government will be committed to starting a free trade deal with Japan on the basis of the Japanese government declarations to increase the share of free trades in international trades. Japan is an important market for Icelandic products, especially in the seas. Iceland also imports many goods from Japan. Thus, a free trade agreement between countries would improve the standard of living for both nations with a lower prices and greater production and trade management. During the past decade, the Japanese government has gradually opened its trades in foreign lands by attacking free trade agreements. Then Japan's current government has provided a clear and broad plan for opening up business with the outside world. It especially refers to peoples with vast resources. According to the Committee, the government has long asked for free business talks from Japan but has failed. At the same time, these contracts have been worked on in the field of EFTA, the results of which were made a two - sided agreement between Japan and Switzerland. The Commission agrees that changing circumstances have opportunities for Iceland to be tested fully. This year's 60 - year anniversary of the two - year political relationship gives us reason and incentive to open up talks on our first occasion. So the committee suggested that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Under this view, the committee's executive guide was to be a boy. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason, who is born for legitimate reasons here today; The one standing here; Kristjánsdóttir Birna, chairman of the Committee, and chief of the committee. Councilmen Karl Garðarsson, Óttarr Proppé and Össur Skarphéðinsson. Hv. However, the members of Elín Hirst, Frosti Sigurjónsson, and Silja Dögg Gjörn's Gunnarsdóttir were absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u33	Mr. President. I want to thank you. Árnadóttir For a fine story for the State Department's opinions of a conquistador I made along with some others. Councilmen and business on vacations with Japan I believe that the treatment and the work of the Committee were exemplary in this case. It is quite clear that it is in the interest of us Icelandic consumers, Icelandic export companies, if they are able to obtain free trades with Japan. This suggestion is important when it comes to it. By means of the government, they will achieve the purpose of the proposal. This matter received much support in this winter and year forth, as well as in last year's discussion. I especially want to thank my friends for what they're doing. The Foreign Affairs Committee for aiding the proposal was adopted in the exception of a more detailed discussion during the last session. I believe, Mr. President, this is a sign of how to employ good work at the high Council. This is a suggestion made by members of many categories that obviously do not involve any category of political differences but primarily contributes to promoting the whole of Icelandic society. Under such circumstances, it is important that the council embrace such matters and give them their hand. It happened in this case. That is why I would especially like to thank a prominent speaker, including the one originally appointed to represent the case. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, as is the president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, why. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter. In fact, there is evidence that this very journey is now under way. Japan has been as shown in the case of the day. paritaprevir A relatively closed country of Árnadóttir's aged daughter is still closed in many ways. However, the present government under Shinzos Abes's lead has made it its special ambition to break up Japan's isolation. We can see that he has offered many topics that he is trying to use for reform in Japan, including some of them. to break out of the economic bases that have been there almost in the 1920's. One of Japan's prime minister's priorities is that of increasing the share of shops at the international store. Last year, when this proposal was submitted, I considered as the first official of the proposal to consider how the object of a vacation shop was in the Japanese international store. It turned out that he studied only one fifth. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has made it his goal to increase the share of free shops to 80% of the international market. Hence, when the proclamation is not made until 2012, it is important that the countries who are interested in taking advantage of this opening document are not involved. Also noteworthy from Iceland's position in particular was the policy published on the homepage of the Japanese State Department that the Japanese government would focus on making free trades first with countries with high resources and with those who produced wholesome foods. Both apply to Iceland. This is yet another reason why it is time for us to take this journey. Iceland and I have also had wonderful cooperation with Japan for decades. I've always mentioned the relationship between Iceland and Japan that Japan and Iceland have basically built up the energy industry in Iceland. For a short time, all turbins in the major energy efficiency used by Icelanders were producing renewable electricity from Japan. It was also Japan that funded them all the streets from when we started with the first major contractors, so for some 30 years they have put forth a great deal of work to build up in Iceland. So it's a tradition of cooperation between the states. Our friendship is displayed in many other ways too. At the United Nations and various international institutions, we and Japan are alike among the so - called similar populations of countries, i.e. There are countries that are fighting e.g. before the development of increased human rights throughout the world, trying to unite its policy in order to achieve it to the United Nations by integrating its proposals and convening them to various forms of suggestions. Of course, it is because the Japanese have built their community on the same values as ours, i.e. of the rules of the court, of democracy, and of human rights. That's what matters. This is especially so in view of the fact that we have shared a common journey through the time that we can call for them to participate and listen to our search for a vacation store. In this speech, Mr. President, it can be said that when the bank crash was here in Iceland 2008, the Japanese were the first to step forward and put in order to make the AGS World Bank Fund remembered the proper hand for the Icelanders. And it is worth remembering that at that time the Japanese secretary of finance was at a meeting in the United States, he declared to the press that the Japanese would be willing to increase their donations to the AGS in order to pass the help we needed in the form of the currency bar to the Icelanders. Japan's prime minister then made a very thorough decision. This in itself reflects a measure of friendship on the Japanese side. It is not for refusing that the Japanese have not been particularly rewarded for making free business talks with us. The Icelanders may not have made enough effort to do so. They have sometimes pointed out that Iceland is a small country while Japan is very large. Icelanders have never agreed to such evidence. We have never agreed that our smallness should lead to our not having the same possibilities as other nations. However, it is also as if I think it is right to show in this connection that Japan has had air travel contracts with all the North countries except Iceland and has not wanted to accept such agreements with us even though Icelandic airlines and tourism companies have sought it. Then, Mr. President, I must say, in the face of the good trip between the Japanese and Icelanders through the past six decades, all the streets since we took up a formal political relationship between the nations after World War II, it is literally impossible for me to accept no as a valid answer. Therefore, it is important to Japan that it is clear that it is not just the idea of some minister, it is not just a government that thinks this is true, but the legion of the legislature itself has placed its end on this scale. Then it is worth noting that, Mr. President, when Japan's Deputy Secretary of State came to Aldulis last year, he met with a representative of all the political parties at the General Assembly. After a meeting with Deputy Secretary Makino, he was surprised to learn that what all the representatives of the Icelandic Parliament had put the most emphasis on making open talks about a vacation store. He said he'd take it home in the funk and want it. Now is the time, as noted in the fine committee study presented earlier, that there will be a special turning point in the relationship between Iceland and Japan this year. Now, some 60 years have passed since Iceland and Japan adopted a political relationship. Such milestones are repeatedly remembered by the Kingdom. Often there is a high level of culture. For example, it is fun to remember a recent birthday party between Iceland and Russia, which was remembered by the Bolshoi Ballet's visit, with an art presentation at the Kjarval acts in St. Petersburg and a number of other conventions. Governments also try very often to tie in even more fixed bonds at such milestones by making treaties as valid and to provide both citizens with some added quality. That is why I think, based on how the Japanese have expressed their will to increase the share of the holiday trade, in terms of how they have defined the states to be top priority, and especially at the standard of the fact that we are now holding this year on the 60th anniversary of our political union, that this is the right time for the Icelandic government to make this journey and have now given up the valid approved legal agreement as well. It gives a certain amount of weight to that prospect. Mr. President. I finally state that, of course, it is possible to wonder why this proposal involves making a two - sided agreement with Japan, not as we always do, but through the European Free Trade Association, EFTA, where we have made 30 contracts. Why? Because the Swiss who are on a surface with us chose not to wait, neither did they immediately make such a deal with Japan, and they succeeded in their miraculous efforts. That is why there is no particular interest in using EFTA in such areas that the Swiss who are with us in the most powerful within the door have already made such a deal. However, in view of the strength of the Japanese state, in view of their share in the export trade and the high-tech position in that country, I believe very many countries will now try to tempt it following the opening of Japan's current government for an increased free trade and try to negotiate with the Japanese government. That's why I don't think there's anything to wait for. I think it's important that we use the winds that blow our backs and motivate us to this quest and do this right now. There's nothing to wait for. This has been understood by the high Council. That's why this case has come so far. We are to use that burden to accept this and thus strengthen the government's strength in carrying out the Lawgiver's will and making her request for a vacation shop in Japan.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u34	A respectable president. I don't have much to add, at least not materially, which was presented in the speech of the gill. ... andthenwhat. Chairman of the committee. However, I would like to correct my position and the rest of the committee that the matter is important. We believe that it will be delivered quickly and surely from the Hall of Congress. I think there's a lot to say about the importance of the matter, considering the degree of solidarity that has been achieved in the field of the council and the Committee. As mentioned in the case of what? An authority did not consider the committee to be a reason for reviewing the proposal. I'd like to thank and compliment you. The merchant's proposal for the press conference, and he agrees with everything he said about the importance and need to settle this matter and take advantage of the opportunity we have all around which this interest in Iceland. It's a shame Iceland didn't already have a vacation deal with Japan, but like a whale. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson came in here with a special opportunity and a song now to take advantage of both the political positions in Japan, the business post there, all the markets that can open up on increased scale for Iceland. This year 60 years have passed since we set up a political relationship with Japan. So I think that everything in this matter gives us good wind to make good use of it, as mentioned in the preceding talk. I encourage the Allied on behalf of what? Foreign Affairs Committee to handle the matter quickly and safely. I encourage the government to take it seriously and to work hard, and I'm sure thanking and thanking the state of Congress for the understanding and great ambitions that men have shown in order to finish the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u35	V.E.G. President. I come, like the others who have come up here, to celebrate the urgency of the situation. State Department. This proposal has now been stated to be the third at the High Council and is not so long since the case's 1st traveling overseer. paritaprevir Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson made this suggestion, and the case came to the committee. I have to say, just as it is, I'm very pleased with this kind of work. I'm glad they don't have a case in the hands of members of Congress. This is an example of a changed period at the General Assembly. If I think of my starting years at the General Assembly, that didn't happen very often. This is a good suggestion, and the committee has won it quickly and well. This second discussion will be followed by a vote next week and will be agreed on, whether it will be on Monday or Tuesday, probably. I want to thank you, too. paritaprevir For this matter, the attention of Össur's Skarphéðinsson for the lawsuit and for not letting down the lump, despite the fact that it went to two councils, was completed and dismissed during the last council. I think it's a committee's opinion. The committee is very familiar with what was then, since the case was complete and finished even though it did not reach its vote at the end of the last assembly. I think it's a good work ethic. As a result, I think of a change in the constitution regarding the possibility that events presented at the General Assembly can live one or two conventions, that they do not always need to be removed. What a fine example of this! This matter of assigning the government to record and set up a vacation agreement with Japan based on Japanese government declarations to increase the share of free trades in international trades, as the proposal is about, is very important to us Icelanders, especially the way of the sea. The report on the fishing road is entitled "In 2013, the value of exported seafood was nearly 8 billion, or 2/3 of the export of Icelanders to Japan. " Icelanders have sold it into curly, gray, salmon, and fur, as well as the markets have developed for new productions such as hairy shrugs. Do I mention hairy skin because I think it's time to start working on hairy skin. Then I come to what's so important, i.e. that all the sea level coming from Iceland has to do with exporting. With a bargain, it drops. It will quickly show how important this is to us and to us in order to develop and move more into Japan, who want to buy our marine products. That's what's good for us Icelanders. We move in from Japan quite a bit, like automobiles and other things, even though they are said to be toll free here. But tax freedom would have added the requirements for the import of Icelandic products to Japan and would benefit Icelandic consumers to buy Japanese goods in this country, just as it was at a free trade contract with China made voluntarily and after a proposal. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. A respectable president. I'm not gonna spend any more time discussing this case, but I'm just gonna celebrate the proposal and the lawsuit and thank the State Department, under control. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, Hannah, for her quick and effective work habits in presenting this proposal to a future. and to be approved at the High Council, hopefully next week. I think that's a good thing for those who are going on a mission to Japan on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-24-80.u36	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion to anything. I come first and foremost to declare my support for this fine case and to mention that I consider free trade to countries that have our common baseline values for freedom and democracy and human rights as a very important factor in ensuring long - term peace on earth. I find it very positive that such countries make agreements that make it easier for them to communicate with shops and to communicate in general. Then I must mention a personal opinion that I have recently received, and it's that I find customs quite a very nasty form of remuneration on the part of the state, I think they're a very bad way. Although they give me income, I always feel that it is important that we keep in mind the moral justification behind any form of remuneration. The same applies to income taxes, credit taxes, and other remuneration, unless it makes me feel that justification is much stronger. When it comes to custom, I have felt that it was not for a long time to demand a price just to allow a certain quality here to be there, I find it very questionable, so that more can not be said and I am against it myself. That's why I celebrate this kind of thing. On the other hand, I feel that it is most important that we focus primarily on free trade agreements and such with other nations that share our values of freedom, democracy, and human rights. The most important thing to me is at least the priorities. Now I have full respect for the evidence that in order to enhance our influence on human rights, freedom, and democracy with a state where at least these values are less established, it is important that we are in close contact and communication with that state. I respect that view, but I also feel that there are other factors, such as size differences and the like. I've done a rather thorough review of these views, I'm holding here with my previous discussion, so I can only declare my support of this good thing again, and thank you very much for the occasion. 4th, including Reykv.. n. Snatcher Össur's Skarphéðinsson and members of the United States Congress for volunteering.
