ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u1	Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 1234, the legal cost of shelterers, and the speed of the case in the treatment of restitutions, from Ásmundur, the Friðriksson of Friðrk.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u2	A respectable president. I want to turn high school business into a subject. There's been a lot of talk about them in the past few years. In 2014, a report from the National Review Study that discussed high school management status and calculus was presented. This report, published at the beginning of 2014, called for a review of the algorithm and the awards of the so - called series to reflect the actual cost of teaching. The report gives the Ministry a comment on the matter by permission of the president: ▪ It is important to reevaluate a calculus model as a practical tool to plan needed donations for school. The Ministry especially needs to be careful that the pay scale of the model will take into account the actual cost of the school, where wages are the biggest pay and their lack of appreciation can cause serious problems for school. It has now been two and a half years since this report was released, and high school standards have all but improved. I experience it to the highest level. A minister may somehow be waiting for a cut-off of high school to turn some savings into the system, but you can't wait for it. I'm really worried about high school status, I haven't had any experience, and I don't hear that there's some kind of bridge and delirium that's caused this problem. The schools have been in cut - down for many years until the collapse, when the crash occurred, straightened out. The situation is very serious, and I hope to the highest. The minister and the Ministry hear the discussion that's out there and this call to improve high school management status so we can at least Blowing up into mean OECD countries when it comes to contributions to high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u3	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss housing, but much work has been done to the Ministry. Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir. A team was appointed to report a report that could be said to have preceded the four primary metastases, which have been involved and followed by a series of events. A welfare committee who has worked hard on these matters. Already one of them has been completed, i.e. a bill that was involved in the management of housing partners and housing seaholders' status. Then we're in the final meters with a general apartment bill, or a general social apartment, such as a dog. The committee suggested that it be called. Two cases remain. Another is the bill for housing benefits linked to collective agreements, such as the general socialisation bill. The rest of it remains, however, there is a bill to correct a change in rent law, reimbursed a case from the last council, facing the legal status of tenants and landlords. This morning the world's highest name was introduced. The minister of housing matters the results of an extensive research project carried out by Gallup on the tenant tenants and landlords'attitudes toward the housing market. This is where the importance of the actions involving these elements is actually confirmed. That's where even the two of them come from. so that few people in a rented market can make a deposit. There's uncertainty. Many gather debts and find it difficult to make ends meet. Up to one, a respectable president. The actions of the pioneer company at the highest level. Strategies are needed, as is confirmed in this investigation, but not sufficient. Yet, they are a big step, especially support for income groups, often younger people, while the growth in the construction of 2,300 apartments called on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u4	V.E.G. President. This morning an open meeting on the premises was held. There was a discussion of the topic of housing and the Department of Social Affairs. During the meeting, a prominent speaker took a few of the cases, but not so. A senator standing here, over the changes as well. The welfare committee has handled the situation and generally over the position of the committee. The meeting was very well attended, and it could be said that the fine attendance was indeed an incentive to continue working hard on these matters, i.e. ..to complete CREEP on the 3rd. about a general social camp, a bill on increased housing improvements, and a change in rents. But all of this work is in full swing within the committee. There is a need to increase the security of all citizens of the country, i.e. that individuals and families have a realistic choice of farm shapes, whether they choose to live in a rented market, in their own housing, or in a living partner. The work others show that homes have certainly not been forgotten in government projects. In the following days, the social and housing minister will present the fifth priority on housing matters, which includes changes in financial markets. This link I'd like to mention that the last few days the press has asked us why. Senators to see if we support an election in the fall. I have answered, so personally, I don't feel that it's time for me to make a date. It is important to look to the projects the government was able to do. These include the housing items that I covered above but also other measures that need to be completed in terms of the insurance and the improvements in the social security system, as well as the improvements to birthworm legislation. When that project is completed, it is time to enter the election, whether in the fall or later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to make a government case a subject today. The stability established by that government is important and valuable to the growth and survival of the nation to the future. On the other hand, I would like to briefly discuss the clear will that has been shown at the General Assembly to help with the operation of taxes. The latest news of the government's operation is in that positive one. The total budget of this year's first quarter was within the budget, and most of the funds are within the budget in the first three months of the year. If overall, the appearance is very good, but the total of 4.1 billion, which is, of course, a concern of the 135 budget. The result, however, is a plan and a source of satisfaction that totals 217 budgets by means of financial expenditure. A respectable president. Second, it is a pleasure to see that in a report on tax cover and possible legal adjustments to cover the activities of those whom the Economic and Business Committee has issued, the Committee says that it considers it necessary for government to take many measures against the activities of tax industry. A continuing active involvement in international cooperation is important, and Iceland needs to be on the front row, but there may be opportunities to make changes in the law to make money for Icelandic people to make use of the tax industry and the confidentialities they offer. Recent information on the property of the Icelanders in the tax industry and possible tax deductions call for immediate action on the part of the Icelandic government, says the Commission, which is now in preparation for the Ministry of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u6	Mr. President. During the period of this government, private health management has been increased. The most profitable business in the health sector can pay tens of millions of dollars each year to shareholders. They are largely funded by the public's tax money through Iceland's Medical Insurance. A health minister has accepted the rise of special health centers in the capital area, but he intends to ban his legal pay. How will the government and health minister monitor the failure of money? Today, there is no government surveillance on how much money is taken out of private health care companies in Iceland. There is great support for the nation's health - care system, and this has been reported repeatedly in surveys. This has been warned that increasing private business can affect land management by land hospitals and health institutions. We know that there is a constant competition for funding between private health care services and public health services. Personalisation of the social health system is accompanied by a variety of problems and concerns. Private funding reduces bioavailability to health care, especially those with the lowest resources. That's why I think we have to protect our public health system. The left green wants large amounts of money to the public health system because it is very dangerous when a large amount of money flows out of private health care because it will take the global funding of the health system in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u7	A respectable president. I would like to discuss with this team the progress of the government on various matters, especially when it comes to tourism. Now I'm heading for one of the greatest tourist attractions of all time, and I'm very concerned about how this has been accomplished in the past by the government to prepare for it. I had a little break from the Senate last morning, and I went to the House Hall, where I'm on the Þingvall Committee to see a recent example of a tourist payment. Most recently, it is reported that the parking lot at the Hack is cracked, and there was a long line to the meter where people pay for parking. Today, there are a tremendous stream of visitors, who are positive, but they are not equipped to cope with this great flow. This country's transport system is damaged. The combined property of our local people in this infidelity is demeaning. Our possessions are dwindling in the rise of time because Iceland's government has let loose and carelessly be a characteristic of its entire reign. There are releases in all areas of the Icelandic government. This, of course, is what is happening to us that we are completely prepared to take what is right. This has been criticized every year, every assembly of the World Order period, asking questions about answers, asking questions, asking questions about what people are going to do. But the answer is nothing. No landings, any solutions, from the so - called management center of travel that was supposed to save everything. Except the only news is that a new executive who is recently involved is in danger and looks for new ones. And the largest destinations of the republican history are yet to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u8	V.E.G. President. I'd like to renew a little what I brought here yesterday about the insurrection of the SEC in order to handle two matters that I believe are due to that. On the one hand, it is the opinion of the recent SEC that sales of the Lands Bank have not been in harmony with the normal business practices of the government of Borg. However, what I drew attention to here yesterday, i.e. to the executive manager of one of the clients in Iceland is a person in charge of a company a few years ago who lives in Iceland record in the administrative fines. The company has been responsible for another billion, some by the Supreme Court. I haven't had any particular responses from the F.A. or seen them, since yesterday's speech. That's why I came up here again on the same subject. As far as I can see, it's necessary that I direct that formal request. The head of the Economic and Business Committee, what? paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, to invite the committee to meet with the members of the FEC to enable them to explain to the Commission why the SEC has not taken sides in these issues, i.e. in another matter, very late and in the other matter not at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u9	V.E.G. President. I've been a member of the General Assembly Committee since I was a member of the General Assembly three years ago. The role of the Parliamentary Committee is to revise the laws on the Holy See, and the aim is to improve the effectiveness and shape of the Council, all of us are very interested. Little has been done on the committee during the winter, where we have learned that the necessary changes that would make the council's work more efficient and the shape of the council better hangs over certain constitutions, so the work of the Committee is actually stopped for now. But what changes am I talking about? Yeah, I lean, like. that when a dispute between major cases stops during the council, they must be referred to in accord with local regulations, as at the dance council. With such an arrangement, we can avoid a long - range code of speech that requires time and money and has a major negative impact on the image of the council. I'd also like to mention the rules on the life of Congress. I believe Congress should be allowed to survive the election period to improve the effectiveness of the council, but now we have to start at the beginning of a new council sentence, every fall, bring the same things back, wait for the order to be given to the council, get reviews from the same people as last year, and so on. It's a complete waste of time, in my opinion, that prevents this nation's politics from being taken care of. V.E.G. President. Regarding the life span of the case, an Ásmundur Helgason, former jurist of Allellis, reported from 18 September 2008 on the rule of 48 C.E. Parliamentures, formerly 52s. Congress, that matters that have not been paid at the end of the council will fall - this is a so - called discontitititte rule - will not be taken away except by a change in the constitution. He builds his conclusion that it is a government order that will be set aside only by means of a change in constitution. This conclusion, however, is a matter of opinion on which we here are under obligation to go further into the stitches.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u10	President. Recently, a Gamma 450 apartment society, said to Kent, purchased by an apartment loan fund. It is said that the price was just over 10 billion. Is this news in itself quite a bit of news, and much movement in another immature tenet, where we know that Iceland's rent is very high, compared with neighboring countries, and it is a government agency that sells away this kind of property to a private citizen who, of course, has the goal of maximizing its profits. While it may be necessary for the decision not to raise the rent for 12 months, you can ask yourself, " How long will that charge last? ' No assessment of the impact of this sale has been made on the market, but at the time of this decision, a representative of the left movement was published in the management board of the Substitute Bank on the sale, by permission of the President: A more comprehensive section of the Board of Overseers has made a decision to sell a credit card to Cleot. Iceland's tenure market is still in shape, housing prices are very burdensome, and it is necessary to look for social solutions instead of profit - producing roommates. With the sale of the Rock, there is an opportunity to promote social housing in a community property for the common people to benefit from, and it outweighs the importance of supporting financial resources through the sale. Signed to decisions about sales of Rock. A respectable president. I believe that the U.S. Senate knows of this position by the director of the left movement of the green supply in such a large area of housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u11	President. The discussions in the council are often very helpful and important. I wish we had better ways to talk about all the things that seem to have gone wrong in our society. There are big decisions here, and it turns out that no consultation is being made, as noted in the case of the day. paritaprevir Savavardóttir Svavarsdóttir's daughter earlier. I just got a call from a friend who has a friend who was arrested and is being sent abroad because he is a fugitive. I was at a meeting with Homecoming, a partner of the forgiven agent of a debt, where there was a lot of striking information about people who are still sitting unsolved after all these years, who place them so narrow that they take the lifeline away from people, it's so hard. It is a joy to see that the government's opinion is that the efforts of an insurance agency to pursue the most sensitive members of the community are not a suitable tool. You can hear all the time about what's wrong in our system. And here we are at the Council, and it is our job to ensure that our community and the systems we have shared in making forts. You must ask yourself what's wrong. What has gone wrong, and what can we do as members of Congress? It has been shown that there have been no meetings e.g. in a Senate Committee, where we might form a review of how we can better care for our jobs. I hope this works for my next term because I can't imagine being at this workplace with bells ringing in my ears forever, where it's all broken. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's the responsibility of the council and the president of the council who won't... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u12	On this basis the president would like to state that it was evident at the last meeting of the Council Committee that it was the conclusion that it was not a basis for meeting until the result of the changes to the Constitution, including opening up the possibility of the public or a lesser part of the Council to denounce the outcome of the individual council from the Council. Therefore, the president did not consider this to be a reason for their fate, but the president would be interested in trying to see if this was so, although the conclusion was not to be carried out by these constitutions would be prepared to make changes in the council. The president has produced some ideas for the purpose of this matter. A senator is aware of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u13	A respectable president. Will it be or will it not be chosen in the fall? Now, the senators have repeatedly come here in a pita and say it's their personal evaluation that it may not be a good idea to vote in the fall, that it is better to complete the council because so many important matters, such as insurance, and I don't know what, would simply have to get through. They've been trying to get a hell of a job. Prime Minister, now! paritaprevir The great party, Sigmund David, son of Gunnul, up here in a pit to discuss this blessed insurance policy, and nothing has happened. We're talking about here at the end of winter or at the beginning of the summer, we're still getting huge cases in our hands. Just this morning I saw that it was being approved by the government to bring a new LINE bill. How should we be able to talk about it in a sense? It's just a disgrace. The trust due to the Council must be restored. Such talk and behaviour on the part of very powerful members of society, who say they have nothing in mind to vote for in the fall, are very harmful to the image of the General Assembly. Do we see in it that we endure the rest of the winter? Is it because some people are just thinking about their pay? I think it's a butterfly. I think this is a disrespect to all the others who work here, that the senators should try to undermine what both prime minister and financial minister have said here in Pontu, that it will be chosen in the fall. V.E.G. President. I sincerely hope it will be chosen in the fall. I have nothing but words. There is a very good reason why people have stopped trusting politicians, and we can never live up to the big words.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u14	V.E.G. President. I'm here to discuss the situation of several higher schools of our country, our most important educational institutions at that stage. The situation is that a number of high school students have not been given any business advance to other businesses than rent, and they pay for a year's pay. Of course, that is an unacceptable situation. In fact, it is a fall to increase the problem of high school. Since the past few years, these schools have been the goals and ambitions of school directors to pay as much of their debt as possible. Of course, the situation is that in one year the slope has not been right. Now it happens, and it seems to be a little vague why it is, that these schools have been told that they are supposed to pay up the slope before they get a runoff. It hasn't happened before. Thus, the school officials were totally prepared for that position, and we, members of the North Eastern District and other districts, are working to find a solution in the matter. I certainly hope that an acceptable solution will come. I know that both the minister of finance and the Ministry of Education have contributed to that, and I thank them for that. I've had good conversations with them. But this position must be dissolved. These schools need to start making progress. [[The president calls.]] It is due at the end of May.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss the position at the labour market. In recent years unemployment rates have declined rapidly, and there is great evidence of overexploitation in the Icelandic labour market. Sadly, these signs are not because we have been able to strengthen or build up a system of knowledge; they are not the least of them in low wages. To a considerable extent, foreign workers are reimbursed for low-paying jobs. That's why I want us to talk about it before it's time to learn from our experience from a crash when foreign workers often worked here in very bad situations where there was even a sign of mansalion and that they were trampled on by foreign workers. During a fine tour and a report by the Minister of Health for Foreign Affairs, which came here during the day, there is a section on work accidents that reported in 2006 that foreign citizens were 7% of the labour market, while 30% of registered work accidents were linked to foreign workers. The following year, the ratio was similar. In these last days, we have heard examples of foreign workers who are tolerant of human affairs. It is important that we try to cover the well before bad happens. There must be a work in common with ours here that puts the frame around it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u16	V.E.G. President. First of all, thank you to the highest. Minister for responding and wanting to accept this discussion about the activities of champagne clubs that have long been to those in this room with a thorny eye. You could say that I asked for this discussion after asking questions to the highest level. Minister of Internal Affairs on events related to the activities of the Committee members of Clubs. In short, I received a very good answer from the highest level. Ministers whose case was broken up by the police in the capital area. It was surprising in the answer that so many fractures associated with these clubs are suspected. These include drug law offenses, prostitution sales, assaults, major and minor crimes, financial offenses. What is characteristic of these fractures, or such cases, is that many of them are not reported. In itself, it may be said that it is not very simple for those who tolerate it. There are natural barriers in these matters, including men who fall into these places in different shapes of life. There have been cases where it is believed that they were drugged. Their map, as it is called in Icelandic, has been fortified in a short period of time. It may be difficult for humans to explain this to those closest to them. This may in part explain the few cases that have been reported. However, that is, and that is what is serious in this matter, the violations of both prostitution and the suspicions of human halls. An article on June 13, 2015, quoted in the U.S. Marshal's annual report, says that 58 times since 2013, there were cases of suspected prostitution purchases that 52 persons were reported, all except one Icelandic person. It so happens that the other day, a fine open meeting was held by the State Department, the State Department of State, and the city police in Reykjavík. It seemed so amazing that there was one senator there, the one standing here. I don't know if there's any indication that these matters are generally not concerned or whether people have been so busy with other things, but I think there is a good reason to pay attention to these matters because the main cause of the human room, at any rate as defined from abroad, is related to prostitution and activities related to clubs of the bodies of those who are being thrown under the name of a champagne club. While many of these cases have an extremely difficult burden of proof, I believe that there is good reason to try to stop the activities of these clubs. I simply think that although it is said that such clubs are an integral part of tourism, we Icelanders do not like it. I don't think we'd really like to have people here who attend such entertainment. Surely we would not care if they were somewhere else to satisfy their motives. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of two questions. First, whether a minister thinks that a change in the law is needed in order to establish a link between the activities of these clubs and/or to put these activities to rest. If the Minister thinks so, will the Minister intend to employ a legal system that is sufficient to plant the activities of these clubs?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u17	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's daughter for asking for a discussion about these restaurants, called champagne clubs. I will discuss these activities or clubs in a discussion on this subject. As noted earlier, I answered a written inquiry from what happened. A former member of the winter's council on events related to the activities of champagne clubs. In view of this request, the Ministry requested a review from the State Marshal's office. According to the review, all cases of this sort, which occurred during the course of one's life, are as bad as the other's. A senator asked that, is confined to the sheriff's jurisdiction in the capital area, so he aims for answers to the cases recorded in that district. Hv. A senator highlights the events that have come to the use of police in connection with the activities of the Fight Clubs. Police data show that in 2011 to May 25, 2016, i.e. Today, 207 projects have been registered at so-called champagne clubs in a diary or police file, mainly involving restaurants and dormitories. There were 66 cases recorded in the police file during the period, 38 counts of penalties, and 28 special crimes. Of these, it is reported that 12 sexual offenses were recorded, of which 11 were for the purchase of prostitution, which, as the United States knows, is punished under the 206th paragraph. a general penal law. The places mentioned here are allowed on the basis of law No. 85/2007, for restaurants, for accommodations, for entertainment. According to 2-1. Their laws have been followed by police directors, including monitoring that the permit holder meets the conditions and conditions of the permit are met. The law further discusses the wood laws due to violations of the law and the cases where police officials can stop the permits activities, including the results of the law. when the permit activities exceed the boundaries and terms of the given license. It may then be added that under police law it is permitted, in the interest of a full-scale rule, to order a shutdown, including the removal of the operation. to avoid or to stop fractures. It should be noted that under the law, restaurants are not allowed to offer strip shows or other facilities allowed on the naked person or on the spot. Therefore, the police have a high - level surveillance responsibility for the activities of all places, according to the above - mentioned law on restaurants, accommodations, and entertainment. Then there is the general responsibility of the police to maintain public safety and order, to secure citizens' rights and to protect property, public interest, and any legitimate activity. Another constitution of the city's rights is employment freedom, which includes the freedom of everyone to practice the employment they choose. However, this freedom can be restricted by law, which requires its public interest. Thus, the interference and limitation of the government on civil employment must be based on clear legal requirements that must not be opposed to these citizens' rights to the government. In other words, it is fundamental that the citizens can practice the employment they choose within the bounds of the law. These and other factors apply in the work as well as in the work. For violations of the law, of course, it is accepted. At present, a respected president, a great sense of awareness within the community of prostitution and human halls, which is carried out by the Ministry by an anti-employment program. In this context, it should be noted that at the head of the police in the capital area, there has been increased emphasis on the study of ment and prostitution. Studies on man trade and prostitution have been put in place, and the government's special deputy was responsible for the investigation of the alleged offenses. Police have also played a significant role in cooperation with unions, labour control and the tax authorities regarding work and observation. Changes in the police system have been made so that potential mansales can be recorded better. All of this has meaning. V.E.G. President. The point, however, is always this: This activity, as well as any of these activities, is legal and permissible. Within the walls of these and other places, laws must be performed. It is taken into account if it is violated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u18	A respectable president. There is reason to thank for this discussion, and in reality, there is good reason to agree with all that is presented in the introduction of a proverb. It's a case that's come to the council before, and I remind you of the Senate proposal made by Björk Vilhelmsdóttir, O.C. Council members of the 2013 Union on a review of law and administration directives to prevent the operation of a so-called champagne status, i.e. Restaurants that make room for the naked staff and access to it in private space. What is involved in this activity becomes increasingly clear. In the first place, people may have viewed the function of the nude, as originally called, as erotic entertainment that was mostly innocent, and the activities of these clubs may have changed over time. But it must now be clear to everyone that despite the limitations that have been placed in these last few years, prostitution, manure, and pornography are real problems in Iceland, and it is necessary to resist this trend. That's why I take my heart to the wind. advocate, this type of operation is not the preferred component for tourism. With all due respect to professional freedom, there is a suspicion that in a closed room of champagne clubs, prostitution can also lead to at least a proportion of girls working in those places, including who dancers, who were sold by a man dealer, or that their situation in their homeland was abused. Here we are dealing with professional freedom and human rights, and I believe that, in any case, there is good reason to agree that these activities are not good for us Icelanders and that it is time to look for any further ways to stop the work of these places. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this and this special discussion that I consider very important and necessary. Happily, more and more frequently, places that go to nudity and nudity are in order, and most people have come to realize that prostitution, pornography, and sex are of the same hurt. As a community, we should never agree that women are used as markets to buy and sell to fill the sexual desires of others. Sadly, such activity seems to be difficult to prevent. In 2008, when the police shut down one such site, it was welcome, and the case worked on the ground that it was not considered a police call to interfere with the protection of champagne in the sky. But champagne markets for women and their bodies, making them goods. How important it is that we focus on the prevention of man traders! All our systems, wherever they are, and the whole community has to take sides against the man trader. We're looking for land, and we need to ask ourselves, " Should Iceland not be the first state to impose laws against such places that end up in humble women and take advantage of the mismanagement of the women working there? ' We may be talking about our sisters and daughters, but it's far less common here in this country that Icelandic women are working in such places. Most of the time, girls are being brought in, including from Eastern Europe where economic and employment conditions are not as good as here. They are even deceived into the country by the fact that life is supposed to be so good, but then it is made up of sex slaves. This is one of the manifestations of poverty and inequities that we have been so well reminded of in connection with the tax countries and especially with women. It's not so long since Iceland was so poor that people went outside looking for a better life, but what would we have thought of our grandmother being sold to the colonial masters who were moneymen of that time? We benefit by putting ourselves in the footsteps of a man - made room that is just ordinary people like us. Also the big question is: Is it human right that champagne clubs and/or Smurfs are allowed to exist in this country? We left green, we say no. We need to eliminate such activity by any means necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u20	A respectable president. It is important that we take steps to sell and prostitution with all available means. We're not attacking champagne, we're not attacking club functions, we're attacking when they're made into prostitution, nudity, and when there's a suspicion of sex. It's a very important battle. Police crime report on the capital area in 2014 shows statistics over prostitution research. In 2011 it was nine, 2012, and 98, 2014, respectively. From these statistics you might read that prostitution had been reduced, that there was less reason for research, but it isn't. What appears to be going on is that the sect was only given special emphasis in 2013. It's very important that the police have prostitution and mensals in particular on their own radar, as it were. If suspected, as shown in the 2015 State Marshal's diagnostic report, certain sites are needed for such activities, it is important to react. Similarly, it is very important for the police to have the tools needed to monitor authorised restaurants in Iceland. In effect, I want to use this opportunity to blow a fire into the hearts of those in this struggle and to reiterate the need to be brief in this struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u21	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking the adverb for bringing this matter to the attention, so it's something that's very complicated. Here we are dealing with one of the deepest and most inherent desires of man, which is really because we are sexes. It is true that in the shelter of champagne clubs and in closed areas the mansal has been used by the worst sort. It's not supposed to last. However, it is also important to consider whether a ban is necessarily what will be most effective. Last year, Amnesty International declared that the organization supported prostitution as an example. The reason is that over the last 20 years Amnesty International has fought for women's rights and has found that making prostitution a crime is not a protection for women's rights. I think it's very important to watch this from a damaged view. If that means that we may need to use something other than a ban to achieve the goal of not using man - made halls, that erotic entertainment, and the man as a sex creature may also enjoy themselves in an honest and reasonable way, it may be a way, but I'm not sure. We just need to keep asking ourselves that question. It also needs to be taken care of, if people want to practice such a thing, how to do it honestly in which individual privacy and human rights are respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u22	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you for the discussion. The name Champagne Club is drawn from the fact that young women wear provocative clothing get customers to buy champagne at high prices and get their company in the market. In March of this year, at the General Assembly, we agreed on a change in general penal law, which protected and fought violence against women and domestic violence, which occurred because of the European Parliament's contract on the same topic since 2011, which is most often called the Istanbul Convention. Sexual harassment, sexual harassment, rape; it's all a violation of the human rights of women and girls. The fight is a major factor in the equality struggle. The common objective of the contract is, among other things, to protect women from all manifestations of violence and to prevent and eliminate all manifestations of discrimination against women. In April 2013, there was an approved approval of the then government of a human-salvation programme for the 20133/42016 period. This has been a time period of careful work, and the plan has been revised during the period. In the autumn of the year, a multidisciplinary plan began, and this year a campaign against a trader is launched. Today, a great sense of urgency has become evident in the lack of communication with foreign workers about their rights and duties to Icelandic society. There is another factor that we need to remember about this activity in which foreign women and girls are more than Icelandic employees. If champagne clubs are normal service and recreation, why is it only found in the capital area? Why do women avoid access to these places unless accompanied by men? The discussion is about rights, human rights, oversight, and fulfilling our responsibilities. Today, I feel that it is too much of a failure to cope with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u23	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. I think that everyone in this room can say that we're opposed to the man-selling, and with every means possible, we're willing to fight it. On the other hand, in Icelandic law prostitution is permitted, but it is forbidden to buy prostitution. So their duplicity is absolute. Clubs, like champagne clubs, have no rights. It's a permit. As a result, these clubs are under law. Unless the law is passed, it must be handled, as with any other business, that compromises his authority to operate. It is important that any activity subject is permitted in the same environment, that it can function as long as it does not go beyond the legal requirements it provides. But I couldn't agree with it, a respectable president, to change the law because they fall into these places in different circumstances, as it were. A ruler said, "Because they can't bear responsibility for their own deeds, and they themselves can stand on their own. " I don't think that's a reason to change the law. But I reiterate that this operation, like any other business, is subject to license. If it is against the permission and the law on which it is based, then such activity is to be shut down.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u24	President. Like other councilmen before me, I thank the advocate of this discussion. However, I must make comments on a verbal venerator's point where he implied that we would not have generalized, and maybe no one but him, worrying about a man dealer because he was one of the people who works in this hall that would have been on a presentation there. I must use this opportunity to object. I'm very worried about a human dealer even though I wasn't at this meeting. That is why I can say that these so - called champagne clubs especially need to be observed. I think it might be a good idea for us to consider banning them by law, although, of course, their freedom of work was extremely important. There are certain human rights that people can do the job they want to do, but on the other hand, the activity in these places is that I don't think they can be overlooked, but it can be carefully considered whether they can ban this practice, just because they are at risk of a man's room. That's exactly why, huh? paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's stone.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u25	President. Thank you for your helpful discussion. I have a few things. Here, first of all, we find some differences in the language of the senators who have spoken. However, I think it is reasonable to say that all members of the Parliament agree that we must stop the practice of man trade and sexual violence from any kind. However, there are questions about whether or not there is a greater need for improvement. There is a difference. However, it has also lay before us, including in answer to questions, of course. The adulation, that champagne clubs are very much the scene of various sexual abuses, women's halls, prostitution, and other illegal activities, must therefore remain under the light when discussing improving society. I would like to mention that the United Nations has been called on to discriminate all discrimination against women during the spring season and a small list of what we should do to improve equality in Iceland. At the top. A minister has discussed these matters several times, in order to increase the number of women within the police, to strengthen the position of women in the Supreme Court and elsewhere, but the list of actions includes: what about funding the action against a man - made dealer? Hv. A senator expressed his special interest in human affairs, but the one listed here gave a thorough inquiry to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the implementation of the man-sale program showing that we need to be more concerned about the funding of that program. The list also shows that women who work in so - called champagne clubs need to be examined, and we also need to be careful to protect the status of these women, although it is my firm opinion that these clubs should close. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u26	V.E.G. President. Thank you for your excellent conversation. It was not intended to put some Coca Cola sign or exclusive right to interest the man dealer and hang with himself. I know of this special group of people that the Reykjavík police have set up, and that is very, very happy. However, there is one thing that matters to me when we discuss these activities, that in spite of the fact that we are not able to give a discount on the fact that some activity is taking place in Iceland, if it is suspected that it is a organized crime or that it is a crime that has nothing to do with what we call the day - to - day job. Therefore, I believe that if we don't have any doubt about the activities of clubs of the sort we now speak about, those who are even victims of human halls are being held for some who can buy access to the bodies of others that I don't view as normal sex practices if we talk about it. I believe we have every option to prevent this operation from being fired in Iceland. If you have to change the law to do so, because it seems that it is difficult to bring true and to judge in violations that are carried out, we simply need to sharpen the law so that we do not compromise that activities like this are illegal and unacceptable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u27	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion that's been very good. I remind you there's no definition of anything called law champagne club. In Comb 4. There is, however, a law on restaurants, beds, and entertainment, that there is no nudity in restaurants, no nudes, and no nude performances. It is not a definition of certain clubs, it is simply a general prohibition against that such behavior exists at restaurants. The Lawgiver has spoken clearly in this regard. Then I'd like to say that my experience has been that the Senate agrees on this and has repeatedly discussed it here, both in inquirys to individual ministers, both during this term period and earlier, and in other discussions at the council, discussing this specific wrongdoing that we are talking about here. Congress has spoken very clearly in this regard. If we talk about the offenses that have been discussed here most, human halls, then the council is very clear that such violations are completely disturbing, and they are against the law. If that is the case, such offenses need to be investigated and punished for them. I'm sure it's quite possible for me to say in this chair that the U.S. Senate has spoken clearly when it comes to this. Since then, of course, we have seen that human halls have been sadly seen elsewhere in the community. We've seen examples of recent contact with foreign workers, workers who have come here. There's something that we can never stop at, and we need to do much better. I haven't seen that disagreement, and I don't think it's there, either inside, between classes, or anywhere else at council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u28	A respectable president. I hope a body of Congress is on my side to improve the texture of words in the lyrics of the law. Here, the change is made to replace the court office as a judicial hearing. It has been heard that the term court office is more vivid because it applies to the management of the courts rather than to the court, but I think that all the majority of the common people could see that the concept of judicial action has just as good as sounds better and that it is faint in all sense. A general sense of words should authorize us to make this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u29	V.E.G. President. I don't support this adjustment proposal. We discussed the name of the Agency, and it is true that the term proposed by the bill, the court office, is considered to be more vivid in describing the role. The court might conclude that judicial action was being done, not the government in the courts. The idea also appeared at the Senate Hall to use only the current title, the Council of Justice, but it was not considered to be a failure because it was controlled by this device and it did not seem to be proper to talk about control.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u30	A respectable president. This adjustment suggests that if a minister departs from the Commission's findings to the order of the judges, he would not be sufficient to arrive at the Generals and have a simple further confirmation of that decision but would require more part of the Senate Hall, 2/3 parts, to confirm a deviation from the findings of the Commission. This is what we believe on the government stand an important factor, since everyone knows that the Ministers have more part in the council. As a result, it would be a form of perfunctoryness to expect the council's approval with a more simple section. We believe that such obvious causes of justice and fairness are needed to deviate from the judicial committee's judgment that this is a major majority, an increase in the number of members of the council, clear and therefore require a vote of 2/3. This is an important change that I doubt will be accepted, and I'm sorry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u31	V.E.G. President. I don't support this adjustment proposal. I believe that changes to these terms in current law require a much greater and more positive view. It's an introduction now on the Home Department website a bill on changing the rules of judges' orders. We'll get it into the council. It is probable that it will be the project of a new election to discuss it. But it's not time to vote and support the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u32	President. We'll discuss a bill on the arrest and delivery of men to and from Iceland for criminal action on the basis of a warrant for arrest. I think there's a reason to be suspicious of this case. So far, there has been an unscrupulous ban on U.S. citizens to other countries than the states of the North. Two. 66. g. The constitution says: It will not be avoided coming to the country nor will it be excommunicated. I understand that in order to work together as mankind against organized crime, terrorist activity, and other serious crime, we need to participate in international work. I feel, however, that we need to get on better with international rights and at least use all the resources we can to have our own laws of human rights. The directive has a degree of flexibility in certain areas that I think we could use better. Seven. says if an arrest warrant is issued for more than one offense, it should be given to you, although only one case is required. In this case, it seems to me that the directive and others offer to suspect a break to be anointed by men to get it delivered on false charges. According to Article 6. An arrest order is prohibited from withholding human delivery on the basis of political transgressions. The directive allows the state to issue a declaration that this rule is valid solely because of terrorism. Looks like I'll take it in 1 1. the bill that insists that the delivery is denied. This is very important, but it must be certain that people will not be delivered on the basis of their opinions or comments. In the final paragraph of Article 9. it shows that the delivery of a human being should be denied if it is delivered in opposition to the regulations of the European Convention of Human Rights. It is not clear, neither in law nor in the paper, what could fall under, and it would have been desirable to explain more clearly, as it is not always clear what might fall under. For example, the European Court of Human Rights insists that the state is responsible if it gives an individual to a state where there is a danger of being inhuman or disrespectful. Everything can be interpreted and interpreted, Mr. President. 16th degree. is all too open a window where it is permitted to agree with a request) the full penalty for a fracture other than the basis for dispensing; Julian Assange may have to serve the punishment for spies if delivered on the basis of rape which might e.g. Translation of the death penalty in the United States, b) the continuation of people to other countries in the Northern and EU, c) continued to non-EU countries, as if it were not an Icelandic citizen. In fact, there are far too extensive ways to deliver people from Iceland, which would be delivered to other countries, including the U.S.A. A death sentence is for a people or other inhuman and disrespectful methods. This means that if we give up a man on the basis of this directive, the British may decide to turn him over to the United States or other non-EU countries. In particular, this is the directive's warranty which I do not seem to have been required to enter the bill. According to Iceland's Human Rights Office, we refer to Fair Trials International's criticism of the European arrest warrant. The Agency has identified a serious risk of unjust punitive treatment in the Member States of the European Union that a European arrest warrant has been issued many years after the alleged offense was committed, that there is no effective way to cancel a European arrest order, not even after the surrender has been refused. People have been sent to other Member States on the basis of a European warrant for a prison sentence on the grounds of an unjust trial. At times, individuals delivered on the basis of a European warrant may have to spend months or even years in custody before coming to court to prove their innocence. President. In all of this, there are too many pits to fall in, so I will vote against the case when it comes to the council's hearing for approval or demonstration.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u33	Mr. President. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to correct a temporary reimbursement of film making laws in Iceland, No. 43/? 1999, with subsequent changes. The committee discussed the matter and brought in a number of visitors. The bill suggests three changes in temporary reimbursement of film making laws in Iceland. In the 3rd. The bill is suggested to increase the pay rate from 20% to 25%. It is also suggested that an independent committee accept and remove applications on the basis of the law, making decisions at the Ministry or to the head tax committee, according to Article 4. The bill. It is suggested that the Law be applied to December 31, 2021, but it remains unaltered on December 31, 2016. The committee adds up to 2.g. The bill. On the one hand, a change in the c-line of 1st is proposed. Section 4. The law that commands that a special company should be formed on the manufacture involved. The Commission feels that this requirement of the law leads to high costs for producers and proposes that accounting and accounting should be separated and therefore not be required to reimburse a partner for each project or production. At the same time, it is suggested that a minister be able to give further consideration to the separating of regulations. However, it is suggested that y-dimers 1.mg. Section 4. The law adds the terms to provide evidence on the local payment of public pay or on the exception of tax laws in this country. It was observed in the treatment of the problem that the work load can be heavy on filmmaking and thus it included: suggested that resting time was not respected and safety at the location of the shooting may be lacking. If that is true of the committee, it would be sad to assume that it would doublely take the money out of public funds, if that is the case. The Commission suggests that the case will be taken up at the centre of the labour market but the Agency's proposal for the 1st Team will be adopted. Section 4. The law of the law is designed to meet some of the rights of paymen. A discussion of the case on the committee referred to the importance of being careful about the nature of the country. The Commission agrees with this and believes that it applies to filmmaking as other functions to comply with environmental laws and regulations, to follow sources of resources, and to associate with nature with others respectfully. Hv. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir was away from the hearing. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st 2.g. put it this way: The following changes will occur in Article 4. The law: a. C Company 1.mg. puts it: that the accounting and accounting of each project are specifically separated from other tasks so that the costs of each project can always be identified. b. Y-joins 1st. to add a new case, as follows: To provide data on the pay of the local pay, or the receipt of a taxpayer from the country, shall be provided. c. Instead of the Ministry, at 2 mgr. comes the subject of reimbursement. 2. Section 5. put it this way: Second measure 7 par. The law says, "It shall include." The implementation of reimbursement under this law, the permission of the Committee on Reimbursement to postpone reimbursement which may be higher than the financial resources of the General Assembly at any given time, the conditions of reimbursement, the separation of accounting according to c-duty 4. par., applications, waive applications and reimbursement decision. This is how the committee's opinion reads, and the following is signed. Councilmen: The one standing here, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Jón Gunnarsson's son, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kristján L. Möller, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Bogi Hafliðason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this brief review of the committee opinion. I took note that the review of an Icelandic agency showed that international graphics, movies, documentarys, TV shows, music videos showing Icelandic nature appear to be fourth of what people say in response to the question: Where did the idea of Iceland come from? However, I do not see in this article any consideration of how this would affect the production industry in Iceland or the public display in Iceland. So I wondered, " Did I have a discussion on the committee, whether of guests or members of the committee themselves, or something in this regard? ' So it's a twofold thing; how much this is about Icelandic film production and what it's like for tourists to come here in part because they experience Iceland through movies, music videos, and the like.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u35	Madam President. This, along with many other matters, was discussed in the committee. I can only answer in general. Their attitude was that movies - whether domestic or foreign - would have had a very positive view for the country and that would have proved to be so far. Therefore, we would be glad to continue on the road that we have been on for a while, to have these reimbursements about film making. That's the way it is. This is an extension to 2021, and the remuneration rate is up to 25% to compete with other countries that are also looking for filmmaking to their country. I believe that people are experiencing it and that it is important to see what reflected in that country is being produced in the large world through movies, music videos, and anything under the media that brings about a positive attention to that country. But I think we just need to be careful. I also think about how we walk about nature, that it's a good thing for us to appreciate the nature of our country, and that we want the filmmaking to reflect the need to walk about it with dignity and bring it back in the same condition as when film companies go on recordings of some known natural bulbs on the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u36	A respectable president. I see it, in the light of this fine answer of a man. A senator, in fact, has no disagreement that it is for the country's benefit to support this industry in this way, especially in the long run, and that this has a positive effect on tourism. According to the following review card in Iceland, I see no better than 14.3% of respondents tell me that there was an idea for Iceland. Of course, 14.3% of tourists are a lot. Yet, they warn that there are not very many participants; only 174 responses. But this must give us a clue. That was why I thought it was appropriate to ask. I'm counting the answer from what. A senator very clearly and as far as I can see, it's not a controversial point.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u37	Madam President. I have full understanding that there are differing opinions on these matters just in general, the support of certain sectors from the State. This discussion took place when these cases were reviewed during the last term and then back now. I think, in view of experience, it has been shown that what we contribute to support this article in this country is turning itself many times back into society, both in the increased capacity and also in the presentation of the country with positive signals, so that in fact, everyone is working in the process of doing so. We naturally need to revise this in 2021, as we have considered, to determine whether this support is continuing and whether it will bring to us what they have seen today. This has created a wide range of employment around the country that I think is important to me too. This is not just capitalized; it is growing this article and domestic production, and this has strengthened the development of the film industry in our people at home; it has shown that we are very qualified and skilled for filmmaking, which, more often than not, can take on a number of jobs, which may not be very well known abroad. That's why there's been a very good presentation for our moviemakers all over the world. This bill has caused it, I think, it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u38	A respectable president. I want to start by saying thank you and celebrate the great solidarity that's going through. The job committee on this subject, in fact, in line with the way we have worked together in winter. There has been much agreement on the issues reflected here, where all groups attend a meeting of the Committee and are represented under the committee's opinion. I miss the fact that Pirata's members had not participated in this with us and would have liked to see them at a meeting of the Committee in the winter. But there is no doubt some explanation. There's a lot of healing in Icelandic commercial living. Since what we may have experienced some years or decades ago, the growth has increased dramatically. Unemployment has virtually disappeared, since it all struck here a few years ago. No one needs to think that such a thing will happen spontaneously. This is not to say that it does not require political leadership, political stability, employment stability in order to increase its investments and promote its activities in companies. It is in the circumstances that have been created in our environment and society in recent years, in these terms that we have seen opportunities to increase, the investment increases, and the beliefs of the companies and their economics on society and its structure grow stronger. In the article to which we will specifically discuss, it is very interesting to observe the developments that have taken place. There is a great rivalry between nations, from one country to another, when it comes to the film industry. It is an article that most nations want because of the benefits directly involved in manufacturing but also because of the added benefits it brings. Consider the example of Norway. They thought that the order around this industry in Iceland was a good example for them to take it and do it. In fact, in the reimbursement, which is one of the reasons why it was very important that we do so. The Minister of Industrial Affairs should be awake in this matter with us and present this bill to keep up with international competition that we participate in. It's a new business. It has often been said of the lack of innovation and new investment. It is really there for this article. The wave has risen to tens of billions each year. There have been new jobs, more varied jobs. These are things we're looking for. But this industry does not replace anyone else or prevent anyone else. It thrives in a variety of combinations when it comes to our professional life. How often we fall into the habit of saying that something else must replace the rest is bad when we talk about specific aspects of our employment. This is a clear example of how well the flea can thrive, how many opportunities we can create, and thus increase the support of society. There have been new jobs and new opportunities that can be used to help people who have been struggling in this field, for study can create opportunities for young people around the world. This was the case at the time. A professional commission that our people have become international recognition in this area, which is of utmost importance. International recognition in this area is of little value; it is of immense value. She's not self-centered, either. It has been created just because of the instruments used by governments. There has been a convergence between groups at the General Assembly when it comes to this important topic. Who would have thought a few years ago that we were watching it even in the near future that there would be a mostly called Hollywood film here? Who would have thought that? But now we see that there is an investment in a movie house. It has been observed in the early part of the country that we are on the threshold of being able to do more full - time work and even study filming. We'll see the steps. They are determined by what is being done here, because of the steps made by the Council to further the sector. That is a great added benefit in many respects, especially in the case of this industry. It's certainly in every industry, some special status, and something that's additional benefits, but here we look up a point or profession that is certainly a major factor in the extent of the Icelandic tourism, it's getting us on the map as it is called. There's a lot of land. These are great films that have even taken a victory trip around the world, as it could be said. We've been recording programs that have been very popular on a global scale. There have been known actors who have admired land and nation, admired nature, the courtesy, the hospitality and all the environment in which they are in and eat whale meat, so that there's now a lot of this, which is supposed to be so bad for the image. I've got to get it in. This is typical of the results. The importance of this in many areas of the country that are desirable for this industry was also highlighted by the Commission's implementation of the situation. It is often industrialized at high - hour times. The result of one film, as we observed when a lake was taken up, followed by Acdéri, is even thousands of stayings at hotels, many flights, hundreds if not thousands of days on rental cars, large crowds, working for the local people to do all of this. That's extremely important. It's like landing in a good season. Icelanders don't know about it, and it may be part of this, our community, we've gotten used to dealing with the chapters that make us able to do this. The people are willing to work hard and take on pressure over a short period of time to see things happen. It's very enjoyable. We had an example of how important it is in these areas, how much more it can provide a variety of our community in the scattered areas. Again, I welcome the solidarity of the issue. It was very detailed on the part of the committee. So we made adjustments to adapt more fully to what is required of us. I think, in all places, we can assume that the effects of this for all of us will be very positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u39	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Committee to conduct a bill to correct the change in pharmaceutical law and medical legislation, i.e. payback. The name of the committee is from what? The welfare committee. The committee has discussed the matter and was contacted by some guests. The committee received reviews from Land Hospital, Drug Services, Iceland Medical Association and Industrial Association. The bill suggests changes to the prescription, No. 93/1994, with subsequent changes, and medical legislation, No. 16/2001, with subsequent changes. The main objective of the bill is to provide the Agency with authorization to be granted as a law-enforcement agency, but to date it has not been authorized to charge. However, the purpose of the bill is to accurately define the term "cure " in the sense of a cure. At a meeting of guests, the committee was criticized for their intention in the bill of financing the legal projects of the EMA rather than the financial resources or the mix of both. Visitors point out that there is official control and that there is a need for good action, it would be best for an enterprise to carry the cost of this surveillance. Then there was the view that medical producers are under strict control of the foreign organisation, which should be sufficient and should not be necessary by the National Competent Authority in such cases. The committee discussed the above views of their meetings, but it considers that the bill includes the necessary changes to the law so that the Agency can perform its legal function. As noted, to date the Agency has not been authorized to obtain a legal fee for a Agency service. Then similar government agencies in neighboring countries have authority to pay such a price. Clearly, the objective of the bill is not to submit the authority of the Competent Authority. The European Medicines Agency will not be able to pay attention to the manufacture of medical equipment, but will conduct with the Agency a national version of a certificate for state-of-the-EU authority to implement the manufacture of surveillance candidates in accordance with local laws and regulations. According to the above panel, it is important that funding for the Agency for such control and other legal projects be ensured and suggested that the bill be agreed as unchanged. Hv. paritaprevir Ragnheiður's daughter, Ríkharðsdóttir, was absent from the case. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hv. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra writes out in advance. She believes that it is important to ensure that a national hospital will be established on budgets as a result of an increase in the estimated hospital expenses. In reviews of the Land Hospital, they were concerned that this could affect the hospital budget. A memo given to the committee for the case explains that the increase in expenses for the land hospital will be stored within the budget, but it will be seen if this is taken into consideration. According to the information under the Committee on the topic, these new curative rights will come primarily to the producers and holms of medical equipment. Under this heading, write why. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, who stands here, and why. Councilmen Ingadóttir Ingabjörgdóttir, chairman of the Homundur Furðksson, Þorvarðardóttir Kölphöflífífífjörður Þótir, Þóra Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, Steinunn Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Bárfjörður Ásmundur Friðriksson Kjörnnafjörður, Þótunnu Tjörnnafjörnótir, and Ragnheðððððður Rikjörnir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u40	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a panel of members of the General and Education Committee, with adjustments to bill to legalize the law of police and the rights and duties of the personnel of the state, which is about police education. The committee arranged for numerous visitors to discuss this important matter. Most of them, if not all, had come to prepare the case and clearly that preparation has been a great deal of consultation. Generally speaking, the visitors were very positive and welcomed this change. The only comments that came back to certain exports were made. But all agreed that we were on the right path. Then it was just a question of how fast to put on this and other things like that. The objective of the bill is to make changes in the handling of police work in Iceland, so that the basic training of police studies, so far done at the State Police School, is moving up to the university. With the bill, that change will be made at 28. Police law, No. 90/1996, that, in addition to those who have completed a state police school test, may appoint those who have completed a diplomat test in police studies equal to at least 120 standard study units, including police training. The bill assumes that at the change, the State Police School quits, but inside the state police commissioner's office, the work of a so-called academic and professional development site, which includes, The role of caring for student training in police studies, overworking police school, being a government adviser in the education of police officers. So it is expected that the educational and professional development centre will take part of the work currently performed by the State Police School as well as other projects. It may have been about what the discussion was all about, i.e. the two factors the bill's about. On the one hand, there is a basic study in police studies that is responsible for the university where the Ministry cooperates. It should be clear now that he will be fully responsible for his basic education but in full agreement with educational and employment centres and other institutions and stakeholders involved in one way or another. This guarantees the independence of the university and the law that they are responsible for the study. Second, education and employment development centres will be advisers to the government and to take care of the ongoing education and training and other things that do not directly submit to basic education and re-education. There will also be available for the university to provide special details according to events. I'd like to state who the lead is that the bill is being passed and why are we going this way now? About two years ago, at the General Assembly, it was adopted to unite the law enforcement agencies and separate the police and the politicians. Then the General Education Commission requested that the Ministry of Internal Affairs start work to revise the police education and how to make it comparable to what happens in other countries and where police mines are the best equipped. The result was to follow this process by working hard in two preparatory groups, which were clearly seen at the work of the committee. I thank the Department of Internal Affairs and all the people they came to and took care of for their well - planned work. I would like to state that for the Committee, there were a lot of discussions about some of the tools, such as how the practical study, the training, would be done exactly, and how the other would be done. However, these are instruments of implementation that are not directly related to the law. In the basis of this line, which is responsible for what aspects of the study and what procedure it is, such as in educational and professional development site, and that one will be within the university institution and that authority to appoint members of the police department after the completion of 120 standard units in police studies. Today it is conditioned to have graduated from the State Police School, so it needs to be changed. So there are some finishes left. Most have been arranged and restored. It was noted to the Commission that the Marshal has begun the preparation for the establishment of the educational and professional development site, to initiate it. A lot of conversations have been made with the university, and their representatives appeared before the committee and declared that they were interested in taking over this study, all four of the universities that appeared before the committee, namely. University of Akureyri, University of Bifrast, University of Reykjavík and the University of Iceland Everyone was confident that he would begin his studies right away in the fall. It is then estimated that when the school program is established, 40 students will be enrolled. A lot of discussion was given and given in most comments, but not all, about the police schools, present employees, and that it was important for their active workers to be used so that the knowledge and experience they have will not be lost from the police school. That's what the committee agrees with. What is different from often before, and perhaps why the bill itself cannot be made to ensure all these employees in a new system is that this is a fundamental change in the activity being carried out. There is a fundamental change in the police study and how it is implemented and carried out. Police School is not being moved into any other activity or united with others but is making a fundamental change. As a result, moving all the employees at once with a law-to-hand situation gets a bit complicated. Already, educational and professional development centres have made contact with some of the police school officials, who are making sure that their knowledge will be most useful to certain factors. It was noted to the commission that the sheriff's office would also like to take advantage of this knowledge for house - to - house training for its employees and even partners. There are many things the office needs to train its employees for and administer certain training. Then there is another re-education and therapy that is responsible for each officer. There is a desire to make use of the knowledge and experience available to the present police officers of the school. The State Department has also started work on how it can help to find a job for those who work for them to keep this knowledge. The commission also stated that all the colleges have declared that they would like to consult the knowledge that is in the police school. All of this, however, depends on the fact that the number and exact knowledge and experience at home are still unknown. The project will shape something. But the committee insisted that it was very important that these be resolved as soon as possible. So it is a pleasure to have the case settled by the committee now, and we are running around. This will help us to clarify the situation soon. The police and funding were also discussed a lot, whether the change and the putting down of the present arrangements at the same time would create a big gap. It is not a secret that when such a big change is made, whether now or later or previously made, there is always a small gap. It cannot be avoided. At the same time, however, it must be pointed out that the last time the police school has only checked 16 students, most 30 for a number of losses. A new arrangement will include some 40 students each fall. Plans estimate that, according to normal police personnel, the need for police officers should take about three years in a new system to recover this problem. In three years, the police are expected to be fully trained by trained police officers. As soon as next spring, the plans we're going to take, and I'm just saying that they have to succeed, that 40 police officers get within themselves right now in the fall, we assume that it will be up to 40 police officers who have been in the police school and have completed two busy jobs, who will wish to start their training at the police departments for the next summer. In the course of the course, there is a certain practical study at the university, and so it will be in order to meet the rights, to work a long time in the police department, to have experience in getting full rights. I suppose that's what most people will choose to do the next spring immediately. This will delay graduation. If we had continued our old system, we would not have been making this change, then the next year would have graduated in the fall of 2017, the year after the student. Instead, the first year of the new system will graduate in the spring of 2018. This is a delay of up to eight months, but not more than that. Although we're changing the system, we're only delaying an eight - month discharge by a full police officer. But there will also be over 100% more than the police school has recently graduated. So we think this is a step in the right direction. Of course, the goal is not to be unskilled by the police, and it is the will of all to get caught as soon as possible. As I told you earlier, the goal is to achieve it within three years, but recently there have been a regular number of 13 unskilled police officers. There's more over the summer. The financing was discussed. It is important that such studies begin with a full amount of money. There have been costs, and I'm glad that the change is made, as the committee put it, by permission of the President's permission: In comment on the bill, you can find an expense plan where you can expect an increase in the cost of attending the university. Much of this involves the increase in the cost of teaching. The cost of college education is expected to be 28 million. K. Back in 2016, 96 million. K. In 2017, the annual cost will be 134 billion. K. when they teach in the first and second years of the study. - Well, that's an extra part of what's in the study now. I'm glad this works. Iceland's university was concerned that this would not be enough, but other universities declared themselves ready to work within the available resources, which are well known. It was noted to the board that the independence of the university should be clear and that there would be a college law here. A review of the University of Iceland suggests that university law be referred to, No. 63/2006, where appropriate. The Commission agrees with this proposal and suggests that it is more appropriate to define its role or its colleges, which will be negotiated for the implementation of basic studies in police school. By referring to a college law, it will explain the thresholds of the university's commitment to the study, as well as the boundaries of the responsibilities of other people, such as the educational and professional development site. Thus it will be taken out of all doubt that the university or university student is fully responsible for the basics and does so without a desire for university cooperation and consultation with other institutions, such as police office, prison, or other professionals. Similarly, it is clear that the educational and professional development centre is responsible for the ongoing education of police, the training of police personnel and other special hidden tasks, but the establishment may not be able to consult and cooperate with parties, e.g. to those or those colleges who do basics. There will be agreements between university and academic and professional development centres on total education management. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be approved by the change that, after the word "storrowment modules" (c) 1 mgr. Section 4. come on: sbr. Law on University, No. 63/2006. Now I've considered some major issues. I'd like to reiterate that I haven't established some points, but it's the process of working together with the police, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of State, and since in cooperation with the local university and has been discussed with the Iceland Police Department of Police Association, the National Association of Police Services, and a few police officers and other agencies, all of whom have declared satisfaction with the development of this subject. I hope we can handle this with the above change and that we will see to it that there is a much more powerful police mine that is basically the goal of this, to make the police much better to cope with the changing environment and to ensure the safety of the citizens and the security of the city. Also, the workers will feel better at work, be better prepared for their work, even better than today. Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir writes in advance about funding and the Ministry's budget. Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þordóttir and Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir were absent at the hearing. It's under the heading "Why." Councilmen Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Líneik Gunnarsson Saevarsdótttir, Haraldur Savarsdótt, Harald Einar Einarsson, Hrafn Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, in advance as mentioned earlier, Haraldur Einar Einar Einarsson and Helgi. To say that, I thank the committee very much for the good work and harmony in this matter. Everyone agrees that it's important to do well and that everyone is working in the same direction, for the good of the police.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u41	Madam President. Here we are discussing a very important case, i.e. Police education. As many people are aware, I have a keen interest in the work of the police, especially job positions, elections, and other things that have led to their day - to - day activities and how they have been funded for far too long. This specific bill turns on changing police education, putting down the State Police School, and moving the study to a university. I was in the conference that I believe in 2013, where police from the Norwegian countries were gathered, and among them educational issues were discussed. There you saw and heard the difference between them and here at home. They are not so everywhere, but they will be similar with the adjustment suggested here. It is said that it is important for the police to respond to the demands of time for public security and to reach a similar location as did the rest of Europe, especially the Norwegian states, that we get to a place similar to that of education. During the course of two - year - olds, Danir changed his studies from three years of university education. For one thing, the renewal was not fast enough, perhaps a major reason. There were not enough people who applied, and the renewal was not fast enough in the police department. Then, even though they are far better paid than Icelandic police officers, they are also part of the explanation. Then there is the big problem that more and less all law enforcement is facing, the refugee crisis, and so forth. As we know, we face great pressures, and some of us are unable to deal with them and thus stop working. I've signed the commission in advance. I spoke very repeatedly to the committee about certain aspects of the matter. I realize that police work in time goes very much into a particular specialised process, i.e. The future law. You hear that in many parts of the system, police officers have received additional education in order to take on other jobs but have the better - to - do with police experience. Of course, we need to keep our police very well. It is said to be lacking, would it not be a minimum of a hundred, and may be nearly two hundred. I'm worried that this is an underestimated cost of staging and the change put forward as part of the financing is supposed to land in the state police department, i.e. What's going on with the mine. I think I'm right about the police school getting uniforms and other things that they need to add to this 40 student, provided we get 40 except for the system. The Ministry of Education informed them of my concerns when they came to meet us. They were called to counsel after the Ministry of State gave the bill and made changes primarily in order to preserve certain rules and laws regarding education. Now they have talked to the Kingdom Hall and have assigned them to find a university to accept this. But they were concerned about their paces and finances. I'll share their concerns with them. I'm gonna start with the colleges, so who's gonna take it? These are government employees, and I think the state schools are supposed to sit at this table, and I agree with that. Not only is it because of school fees but also because I think they're as good as a fortress, and they're even better at holding on to it. It's a relatively small unit that I think should go to the State University. So it's basically the cost I'm thinking about, so everybody's sitting at the same table. As we can see in the government budget, our university is already underdeveloped, and they do not get much more in the years ahead, if anything, will fail. The Ministry of Education believes that the target is significant, since the student is expected to be $1.6 billion. K. There is a central audience in a model that they don't believe to be practical, pointing to the 3 billion Art University. K. And more than that, 3.5 million. K. In fact, it was at the last meeting with the Ministry that they assumed that each student would cost 2.2 million by the mine. That means 600 thousand, let's say, a student goes to the governor's office, times 40 and plus -- I don't know if there's another cost, including. The costumes and other things the police school has provided for its students. I think that looking over this bill, it's impossible to overlook the fact that the police school funds made it impossible for 16 students to be accepted, though there were 32. Only 16 students were allowed to enter. The funds made it impossible to include others. The current school year is not traditional, i.e. it didn't start at the same time. It usually starts in January, but it started later. It is also good that we discuss just how the study is built up. It's begun in January, and then there's a graduation of Christmas, but it started in September, so it's probably over the next fall, because of the changes it was decided to make. Because it has been said that the study is getting much longer, though, it is only about ten weeks long. It has been true for 17 weeks, has been rewarded for 16 weeks and again for 17 weeks of book study, so it has been about 50 weeks. The proposed proposal is about 60 weeks in total. It's okay for us to review that there's no more. Of course, that will be different. I support the study going to university, but I feel that there is much more to study. It is obvious that very many of those who work at school, a companion of the police, the Ministry of Education, and others, feel a bit steeped while the people who are doing this want to go much faster and finish this right now. It will, of course, be the result, I think that's perfectly clear. Hence, we need to be careful and express the anxieties and comments that have been made. Then I'd like to talk about the unskilled parties. Like what? A pilot traced earlier on the subject that there would be a gap, there are about 12 leaving this year, and there are others next year, and there will be no graduates only after less than two years. That means we're going to stay under. Also, there is a responsibility to be involved, that it has been said during the discussion that after the first year, we will have 40 unless you can put abduction on, they will be finished in the second year of two. It can also be said that if we are going to try to make the education really good, we need to make the way out so that the students will not be assigned to a job that experienced experienced police officers. They may get into something just because of the human condition and have to stand on their own feet. It may be valuable, but I don't think it's professional to do that, though it's better to go with unless you've finished one year than to have someone who hasn't finished any study, certainly you can argue with it. But if we're going to think about professional education and professionalism, I don't think this is the best option for our students. I'd like to come to the developer's site, which has been a good deal under consideration. They're creating a new device. The committee noted that the latest report from the Ministry of Internal Affairs reported that it was radically changing the police mine in Iceland. Among other things, I asked about the police school staff, for there has been a lot of criticism, but police officials have been informed and retired in the fall. The district attorney spoke of the conclusion of his office, i.e. A special prosecutor, who viewed a very specific office in his day. Later, a district attorney's office was established, and the men who worked for a special prosecutor had the opportunity to apply for the work that arose in that office. It would have been wise to wonder if it would have been unwise in this case too. I understand those who work at school and have had a lot of work experience, some being adults, but in themselves these people are all ages. There's a lot of human beings there and a lot of experience. It is true that there are superiors in some cases, it is different, as we know. They need people on the street, they're clear. But this does not change the fact that we have a work site here that is supposed to have a significant role. These include working with the police in cooperation with the university, caring for all the reeducation and training of employees, planning of the ongoing education, giving special courses, following events in cooperation with university or on the basis of international cooperation, etc. It must be so that those who have taught police studies, except for the actual part, would be involved in such a job. I understand very well when people working there say there's nothing in their hands, as the committee puts it. I've signed it in advance, and I've been discussing these matters very much, and I'm not saying I'd have wanted to use these men. It is not enough to say that men are about to be offered a job, whether it is in the schools that will be negotiated on the part of the Ministry or elsewhere, that the people will be sought for employment. Of course, it's very good that you are, but there's nothing in your mind that your work does. We also have an attitude toward middle - aged people, and it is not always easy to find jobs even if they have ten - year - olds and good careers, unfortunately. I agree with these concerns, and I've kept them up in all this conversation. I also realize that people may well want to start some of the new blood when they create a new string. But I think we lose a lot of money not to use the human race, especially when it comes to taking all the practical training. There are very many things that will not be taught in school and will, in fact, be taught only here, which cannot be taught in telecommunications, to make driving first, using force, or equipment, the general training. I'm not talking about any other emotional control at the scene and other things that need to be taught at the site. I feel that in an underdemnity of law enforcement, money has been extremely cruel to spend it on a reward as we lose knowledge, instead of using the workers and making deals with people in some way. So I'm gonna stay here. These are the concerns and opinions I have discussed and feel the need to be discussed. It is good and blessed to move to university, and I believe that there will be improvement in the future. In all the pressures faced by the police in all sorts of difficult and difficult cases, whether in knowledge or technology, in fragments, or in a god, the knowledge needs to be available, and indeed increased knowledge, and psychological care, and things to be sharpened. More important, those who are now working must be reeduced. Madam President. I'm assuming the bill is approved, but I want it to come to me that I'm worried and I'd like to see the human race much better than it does here. I will, however, be able to stand for the bill. Overall, I think there's a lot of benefits on the study program. I hope the site for development is growing stronger and better, but that is expected only a few persons into it. I think they'd have to be a lot more if the development centre is actually going to cover all the factors it's meant to be on the bill. Therefore, a very important role is intended, but only a very small number of individuals are initially expected. This may be because they need money. I don't think this question has been answered sufficiently whether this study is fully supplemented. So, as we noted at the last meeting, it is not fully aware of the cost. They have ideas about numbers, but I have to say that the Ministry of Education doesn't think they're going exactly right, and we have to pay attention to that, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good review of the matter. I just wanted to include in this discussion about the development site and the number of employees, what they're thinking. It is now under the office of the State Marshal who has so far cooperated with the Police School on Training and Education. A number of U.S. Marshals have come to teach a number of studies at the police school. There are certain cohesive effects that are achieved by having the educational and occupational development centre located there within the house. The education and employment centre is also aimed at finding out what school the police need. I guess so, and it was shown at work and thought, that it would be done mostly in other places, e.g. within the ever - increasing university education centers, in other institutions such as the Prison Department, and in other institutions, such as the Board of Overseers. After a brief observation, I expect the police would first need to strengthen themselves regarding the management program. Then the educational and industrial development centre would seek cooperation with some educational agency to offer such a study for policemen without having the operation in their own house. It would be the responsibility of the company to lay down the study for police workers who will be able to collect and strengthen themselves in their work and other activities. That's the thought. That is why other employees may not be expected at the beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u43	Madam President. The role of education and employment development centre, as we shall recall, was greatly established in the Committee. I agree with that as a matter of course. A senator said that having it in there is an additive effect. But it was one of the things that was very much discussed, that it was recently stated that this site of development should directly handle the mine, should be kept completely wrapped up in planning it in cooperation with a university. It is also considered in our committee's opinion what to do. I want to discuss the costs in this context. If we're talking about bringing a considerable part of a reeducation into college's ever - increasing schools, it costs a lot of money. In this regard, each course is very expensive. True, it may be possible to achieve a good deal so that the study can be paid down, I'm not gonna say anything about it, but it must also be kept in mind that if a re-education has been needed, as it has been said, there must be some big deal having to be going on, i.e. that we would have as many education as possible at some particular time. That is what we want, for such education answers the demands of time every time. As I understand this seat, and as it was put before us, they're moving in a project that has already been on the hands of certain people, but it's supposed to expand and expand it. True, it can be done so that at first it is only a very few, and then it grows further, but it can also be wondered if we should do this. If this is to be taken up to a university level, should we not be a professional person and do this properly? We're always having patches, we make something small, and then we're going to try to add something else. That may be what is being discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u44	A respectable president. That's exactly what I think we're doing, we're doing this right now. We are making this fundamental change. How happy we are that we will accept the responsibility to do so together! All I want to do is come in and re-education, and that's a two-way. I agree that we have to face up to the possibility that this is a problem, and then we have to deal with it and other things, and we need to make a success of it. The education and work programme needs to determine primarily what is needed. Special course for all policemen, e.g. driving first, arresting, and other things like that, that's this training, and that's what all police have to go through. Then it is the ongoing and re-education that enables the police to strengthen themselves in their jobs and to have the possibility of further progress within the police and to prepare for another position. The police are expected to be at their own expense, as they have through collective agreements and their national relations today access to the labor fund and funds. There are two types of funds they have available, but the problem with today's system is that the chief of police sends the officers to these courses and to pay for the cost. Consequently, police officers are not allowed to decide for themselves whether to take a course. Rather, they are sent by the police officers. Then the chief of police has chosen in advance who is qualified to apply for the job. It's not working. That may be the greatest requisition for police officers in this transition, this choice they get. They have a system that will strengthen them in this study to achieve such progress. That's what this means. Therefore, we will receive much more training and ongoing education out of this changing system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u45	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. That is true, and we know that most unions offer such funds to strengthen themselves in the workplace. However, I was surprised. A senator said this last, I hadn't realized that police officers could choose only to a small degree what kind of course they took. That, of course, is very sad. I agree that it is extremely good to put your arms around such things, perhaps the wisest thing to do is that each one can strengthen himself in what he thinks he is good at and try to promote it in all the ways that the employee can. I don't have to extend this discussion. I have expressed my concern for this matter. For the rest, it may be this: The educational and work programme should verify whether students meet the requirements for inclusion; i.e. The university should set intake criteria, then the educational and professional development centre should verify if they meet them. We're always trying to make a connection, but then we're pulling it apart, so I'm sure it's all going to go through, how it's gonna be. But I really hope that this will be a wise start, not with some nods and ministers of the jury, the Education Party, and see their advantage in setting up the study to state university.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-25-118.u46	A respectable president. We're here on a well-developed progress case where police education is being transferred to a university level and that police work conditions will still be done in police studies with 120 standard university units. At the same time, it is aimed at establishing a state police office within the government's office. This is the best and the time to take such a step. The bill is about the content and preparation of the police work. This is about the public's confidence in the police. This is about self - image and the satisfaction of police officers whose reason is that they will greatly improve in their adjustment. This is actually all that promises can be the input and management of this work and is meant to improve the situation of the police and the interests of the citizens because they have much to do here with good, well-trained and well-trained police force in the country who know and drive their jobs well. This change is needed because today's crimes call for a completely different education and completely different from those experienced by police officers a few decades ago. There's been a big change in economic violations, human prostitution, violations that require very specific knowledge, all the treatments and investigation of such cases, so by this bill, I would think it was the call of time to answer. I hear the talks from other members of Parliament in this case, and of course I could see it. The General and Education Committee that opinions vary on individual factors, implementation factors, how to conduct the study, how to cooperate between institutions of education, etc. It's a bit different, but it's not money. Choose whom to choose in this regard. This adds to the possibility of a student - related career development of police officers and increases the possibility of further education in related university articles. It is important, however, that we keep up with these changes. Here it is assumed that the State Police School will be laid down in the present form, but it is expected that integration of engineering and the Congregation Book Study will be undertaken by police cooperated with the institutions of education. Of course, this integration can be at various levels, and the university has brought up some ideas about them. It's all very interesting. Hv. A top-of-the-art Board of Education suggests that university laws be referred to where appropriate in this case. It considers the review of the University of Iceland, so it is quite clear where the university's responsibilities lie regarding the study and even if there is a search for cooperation with other schools for separate study programs. I believe that's an improvement. It is also a joy to see that all colleges are very willing and have expressed an intense interest in taking this study. I hope it brings good results so that this will be an exciting opportunity. However this may be, I hope there will be something exciting, positive, and creative that will result. Once this change has arrived, the education of policemen will hopefully be competitive to what happens best in neighboring countries, that's the goal. It also increases the ability of policemen to move to work from country to country and to gain experience and expand their horizons. As I mentioned earlier, this also increases their chances of pursuing further university education in related articles, even beyond police studies. It has been observed that much of the country's policemen are involved. Even if that's why this step is positive. Of course, it is urgent to make sure that funding is done and done well. That may be a major concern. I hope this case doesn't get in some kind of conflict because of separate interests, even some educational institutions who want to take care of it. I hope it's more likely that institutions and people can work together to do this well. I'm not gonna have any more of my words, a respectable president, but I think it's a good case, so I'm giving my support.
