ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Parliamentary Party of the Left Motion of the Green Mission to 8th. Smoke. n., Þóra Árnadóttir, can't attend next week. So today, at General 1st, a deputy on the left of the movement is on the list of green bids in the district of Björn Valur Gíslason. In the past, Björn Valur Gíslason is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u2	There have been two letters from the Ministry of Health requesting deadlines to give written answers to the application. 789, on committees, staff, and project management, from Bjarks Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and on the inquiries of the panel. 809, on expenses from expert, counseling and introduction work, from Willum Þór Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to comment on the fact that the program today is a reply to a number of oral requests, not an answer to an inquiry at any time. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, January 26th. to the secretary of finance on specific aspects of the city trade. This is particularly interesting, considering that the government's banking agency felt that they were willing to send a letter to the National Bank Council this morning and called for the bank to take appropriate measures to regain the trust the bank lost because of the sale process. If the inquiry is not answered today, it will not be answered until one day in April. I ask: If the Bank Office is on hand to draw conclusions and send a letter to the National Bank, why is the Senate not informed about that position? What is the point of keeping a query without question until April? From this letter, we know where the chain of responsibility begins. It starts at the bank manager of the Land Bank. It was fairly known before, but we don't know where it ends. The Parliament needs full information on this and its exact status so that we can continue to trace the responsibilities chain. [[The president calls.]] As a matter of fact, the secretary of finance is not going to answer this inquiry that the senator has been willing to attend for weeks here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u4	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Árnason Aarson, who raises a matter at the beginning of a conference, in the beginning of a query, of two questions I asked at the end of January on the matter of payoff and the Lands Bank. One has a written answer, and that answer has not come. The other is a verbal financial minister's reply to a city trade process and other relevant matters. It is only natural for us senators to ask the highest possible question. The question is not planned today for the president. I've got, like all members of Congress get, when they're preparing a hearing meeting, three or four letters from the General in e-mail asking if I'm ready to ask a question on the program. I've always answered yes. I also know that there has been a possibility of answering the queries. When I've known whether it will be answered on Monday or not, it may occur in the final meters, at the last minute, that the inquiry is not answered. It is only natural that the president is asked what it is that the secretary of finance does not answer a request about the subject discussed so much in this country, about the sale of pay, and what is presented here, that the inquiry will not be answered until perhaps mid - April. Now I don't know when the national bank's main meeting will be held, but I notice today that the Bank Office has answered this issue, because it was requested by the Ministry of finance to seek information from the State of Bank. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u5	The president cannot tell us exactly why this particular request is not on the program today but would like to draw attention to the fact that, when trying to get it together, we ask questions why. Senators, there's a lot to go through. First, the material information that is called for is available. On the one hand, the senator who asks each occasion may participate in the question period and the same, of course, with the Ministers involved. However, it has been very successful to get queries answered during oral discussions, which can be seen best because the number of queries was on the program a week ago. Similarly today, it is assumed that one thirteen requests will be answered. V.E.G. The minister of finance is not one of them, and it may well have been that way at the highest level. Ministers that he was not able to attend. It is obvious, however, that this is going to be a great deal of the current question for oral response. As the president gets next, there are now a few questions that have not been answered. So the president believes that it was a success to get queries answered at any given moment. Senators have submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u6	A respectable president. These are not queries, these are inquiries to the Bjarni son of Benediktsson for the pay sale, of the billions of interest in the Iceland State Fund that has been available here since January, not only a verbal inquiry which has not been answered but also a written inquiry. Bjarni son of Benediktsson is at the General Assembly Hall today. We must ask, "Why does he still have another Monday answer? ' The Parliament has a surveillance role, especially when the billions of dollars and the public have been screwed up in the same way that it is clear that they were in the payoff case. It is fundamental that the president of the Generalis should follow that the minister is here to answer. It now appears that it will not be answered before the main meeting has been held, and before the request of the Bankisla to call out for a response by the Bank of America. He's been here for the past Monday to answer other inquiries, just not the payoff request, a respectable president, and we must make serious comments on how the Minister gets the option to select the material he chooses to answer and not answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u7	The President has already explained how this is so about the queries. There are a number of questions that must be made to answer queries. The president believes that he has made a clear understanding of how these matters have been handled and noticed that once this inquiry period is completed, only a few oral requests will still remain during the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u8	President. Surely, all of us rejoice that it will be addressed to the long question list. Presidents are right. There are a few answers here now. The list has declined, but it has been very long and difficult to get queries answered, especially the prime minister has been very slow to answer all the questions he has received. I'd like to agree with that, too. Congress officials who spoke before that the highest level of greatness is completely incomprehensible. The secretary of finance should not answer the questions about the City that were sent to him during the last days of January. Now we are in mid - March, and no answers have been received. It is clear that the next question period will not be until April. The Frenchest of the National Bank to answer the Bank Office will expire at the end of this month, but the minister will just sit by and will not inform the council on these important matters. [[The president calls.]] That's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u9	A respectable president. It is either disrespectful to the council that must be the reason why the minister is not here to answer this inquiry or the unwillingness or the fact that the matter is uncomfortable. Today, the FDA has published an opinion of this trade that will be seen within a few days. The bank board's already been at a meeting. The legal committee has shown that she feels that the treatment is inappropriate. But the highest. Secretary of finance keeps silent and fails to answer the council, the questions asked many weeks ago. Of course it's unacceptable, a respectable president. I would also like to mention that I have been brought up on a discussion of a meeting manager or a traveling committee to New York for a meeting of the United Nations Women's Committee of Women. [[The president calls.]] Congress seems to have only one representative of that delegation, huh? paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson. And there is no record that the seminaries have been given the opportunity to appoint a representative on this journey, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] I'll make notes about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u10	It is true that members of Congress do not no longer appoint representatives at the United Nations Women's Assembly, and the reason is simply that the Council has not had room to send representatives to the Women's Convention for the past few years. Of course, the president believes that this is the case and hopes that it will be fulfilled in the next year. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson is not costed by the Generals, he attends this Women's Council because he is interested in and under the expense.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u11	V.E.G. President. A petition for an oral reply that I made in January asked about the price of paying at the time of the sales. When more than 30% of the items are sold at 2.2 billion, you can calculate that the share in pay or the company's prices is 6.6 billion. However, the media has now published what is called the latest price estimate of pay, and it says that the value of the company is 19◯26 billion. Here we are discussing the belongings of the State, so it is of vital importance that the answer to that inquiry be made sooner than later. The time has become unacceptable, as far as the council is concerned about this sale. I ask: If the newest holding of value is 19◯26 billion, where was the prices at the time of sales?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u12	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Culture, Environment and Resource Minister, and Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u13	A respectable president. It is inevitable to direct questions to the highest level. Prime Minister on health status at this point. We hear news of the ongoing loss of the past inconsistencies in the national hospital; constant reports on the increase in treatment costs. These reports reached a peak of negative health news during the weekend when we saw pictures of beds in a garage in the Land Hospital. At the same time, we hear reports that our health - care system is falling. That is a serious matter, if less than half of the population now claim to have strong confidence in it, and these trust numbers have been falling apart. It is very important for people to have confidence in their health - care system to seek medical treatment at a time, and we need circumstances in which professional people want to work in Icelandic health care. In the final budget, the government led to the efforts of 2.7 billion to add to the greatest need for health care. It was rejected by the government. The addition was 1,250 million, but there is no one who can get involved, as it is now, that it is not enough. How's the top? A minister handles these matters? What is the answer to the government's leadership? Then it will not be enough to kill matters by talking about something else, such as changing the location of a structure that has long since become very urgent. The minister himself has agreed here at the Assembly Hall in the spring of 2014 that it should be in the currently scheduled location. It takes real answers. What will the government do to bring about a serious decision in the present situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u14	A respectable president. I don't want to go back first. The senator said that what was approved in the spring of 2014 was not that a new Landspiration would be built on the Ringway. That was certainly an original proposal, but it did not come together because there are differing opinions about whether it is a reasonable approach. Hence, it was decided to agree rather to attack the necessary improvements in the Ringtrack while assessing other benefits. For the situation now, it is clear that there is a continuing need to be added to the maintenance and improvement of the Land Hospital. The 1,250 million. K. Then as soon as possible. However, a senator mentioned an addition to the addition that this government is setting up in health matters. In fact, I don't think they've taken as big a leap as they have since 2015 and 2016 in increased focus on health matters. Looks like it's gonna be 19 billion bucks. increase from year to year. To put it in context with another question that has already existed. A senator thinks it's twice as much, just the addition to health matters, but the cost of farm contracts. Only the addition from one year to the other in health matters is twice the cost of farm contracts that year. It must emphasize the priorities of this government, which has been making significant improvements in health matters; it will continue to do so. But we realize that it will take time to make up the tremendous surgery that health matters had to endure during the last term. Was it not 30 billion in total medical surgery during the last term? The current government has completely changed the course and continued to promote health care in Iceland each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u15	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister cannot misjudge Generalis's conclusions. The General concluded to assign the government to complete the preparations for the renewal and construction of the National Hospital at the Reykjavík Circle Lane, and to begin the implementation of financing. The only escape to the highest. A minister of construction at Ring Lane is if he tries to claim that funding has not been guaranteed. But I now understand that it is not government policy. On the contrary, it is said that funding was guaranteed. V.E.G. Minister is paddling with jumps. It's not enough to jump if you jump backwards, you have to jump forward. How much of this increase, a respected president, is it due to a pay raise that, of course, needs to be added to the Land Hospital, as in any other institution? Here's the key point: Despite the unprecedented year of the state's population, especially the state's ideal position, there is no better problem in the health system. It's no use talking about the cut-off year of last term. It was cut off because of urgent need, not due to a political opportunity or political need. [[The president calls.]] On the contrary, efforts were made to prevent the cut-off as possible. But there is a political policy here to maintain a starving policy at the Land Hospital, it seems clearly, because of the highest. Not only does a minister boast of lack of resources in the housing of the Land Hospital but he boasts that there is no improvement in the situation in which the hospital is to receive people in the parking lot. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u16	A respectable president. The restoration and structure achieved in the current situation is, at last, rocked and shaken at the Land Hospital, so much is affected by the restoration and construction that it was decided that it would be necessary to attack as the next step, regardless of what would help the hospital's future location. It is extremely strange, a respectable president, to hear of the chairman of a party set up from the employee movement and has dedicated himself, in his own opinion, to fight for gradations, that now, all of a sudden, should not look at pay expenses when assessing donations to the health system. It's not that long ago, a respectable president, it was a requirement of number one. It was the most important thing. I didn't hear anything else from what happened. A senator and his associates, but the most important thing to do was to add to health matters so that we could improve our salary so that we would keep the people in Iceland and have good health systems, for the health systems would be just as good as the staff there worked. This is true, and that's why we're adding a substantial amount of money to these groups, but we've been improving the instruments and attacking the necessary extensions and maintenance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u17	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Prime Minister on the same matter, i.e. The construction of a new hospital. Now I have my memory to do so on April 1, 2015, as it were. So the prime minister said that he could not move a new hospital to the top, and he said that he would at least want to see calculations about it on a napkin or so, just so we could think about it. It's time to go to the top. Less than a year later, the prime minister wondered whether to build a new hospital in Garða. We haven't heard from the highest level yet. Health Minister how he feels about his plans. Prime Minister. I'd like to know if it's the highest. The prime minister has done something more than calculate it onto a napkin or if he will come up with a new idea after some month of structure. Now, with regard to this position, which has certainly been controversial, one of the most compelling reasons for her is that Landspiral is a university hospital. There are many of the most remarkable studies in the country, and the hospital is in great cooperation with the University of Iceland. These were one of the most compelling reasons for professional reviews of the matter at the time when the hospital was found in Watermur. I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister who raises this idea: Has he done anything more than examine this on a napkin? For example, has he consulted with the university community on what it would mean to find a new hospital elsewhere, such as in Garndatown, as he has mentioned? Is this an idea that he or she has had at some point a consultation with the hospital director? And have ideas of change of location been discussed at the government scene? Or it's more of a speculation than ever. The Prime Minister Arranges a discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u18	A respectable president. These are a number of questions. I'll try to get through them as fast as I can. I have discussed these matters with a number of people, interested persons, experts, hospital workers, students, and others. I know that there are many concerns that if the hospital is to be built too far from the university, it will be taken into account, but those who are concerned chiefly point out that it is necessary to have a position for the study in the area near the hospital. And, of course, there must be a conclusion that, just as they plan to build new facilities for the study on Ring Road, so would it be done with the new hospital. There is no need, however, for students in health field to be in close proximity to all other university buildings, to the student valet, to the university building, and to everything, every day. The important thing is that a person has a good situation where it is at hand. When it was claimed that it was best to build the hospital at the Ring Road, it was based on certain grounds. It mentioned the importance of using the old buildings. Since then, there has been something else in the day with these buildings and conditions, and don't need to be traced here on a long matter, since we have been able to see it on the news for the past few years and weeks. It also stood to use the construction of the Land Hospital on Ring Road to strengthen and strengthen the center of the city when, as you might say, it was a slight blow. There's been a turnaround, and people talk about a special downtown pressure at price 50% stress on downtown property. So, in reality, the situation has turned around and created opportunities for the state to sell property there in a very expensive place, using the funds to attack in other locations. In terms of consultation with others here at council or Minister, there is a reason. A senator - I continue to answer, a respectable president, in the next answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u19	Mr. President. It will appear in the second answer to the highest. Minister of all things. A senator standing here knows. I know the General has agreed to spend hundreds of millions of dollars in the design of a treatment core on the Ring course. I know the General has agreed to engage in a building at the Ring Road. I know that, too, as much as I hear the most. Prime Ministers are saying that Iceland's University and the leading local experts have placed a high priority on the close relationship between Land Hospital and Iceland's University, and I hear the highest. The prime minister now says that he will not simply build a hospital in a new location but will move one area of Iceland's University to Gardenville, as he says here. So there are other government agencies as the highest. Minister intends to move. It's normal for me to ask, in view that last time it was the highest. A change in location was suggested by the prime minister at the hospital, previously approved to be on the Ring Road. A few months later, a health minister said that there was no discussion. That is all there is to hope for. A senator who knows something asks the highest question. Prime Minister whether the government is wondering about changing this location and if it is not necessary to attack in the normal process of making such a big decision, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u20	A respectable president. I don't know. A senator's point here is what I pointed out, about the decision she referred to, and interprets, as if by a member of the Council to build a new hospital on Ring Road. It wasn't exactly so, and took, if I remember correctly, a few days to get men together to a motion that had become so that men planned to attack the necessary reforms of the Ringway. [[Up front.]] That's what it says. A senator, and I forgot to answer earlier, that I previously mentioned other advantages as to possible location. That's right, and I appreciate it. A senator for mentioning that. You see, I've been pointing this out for a few years, and there were various places that would be there. In April 2015, the problem is. Senator I talked about Top Search. Yes, I spoke of one of these possibilities being built around the City Hospital, but mentioned, actually, in the same interview, in other places, including Vifils, although I'm not sure that all of it was played at the end. Nevertheless, for years I have pointed out that such advantages are worth considering, as conditions have been changing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u21	A respectable president. It is reported in the media today that there has been a large increase in the number of applications for leaveovers in Iceland, the guidance of foreign guides in Iceland. I think there's talk of a double number. These are guides outside the European Economic Area because those inside have the full right to take care of national guidance. I'm worried about this, because with a lot of tourists, the number of people who go through Iceland's nature increases. Because of this concern, I have suggested that there be some kind of suitable guide condition, at least in the parks, in the nationalities, and in the rest of the countries of Iceland, making sure that certain minimal knowledge exists for those who take people through these delicate areas. I'd like to ask the highest. Environment Minister what the government and he are doing in these areas, whether or not it is being prepared. I think it's a very important project. For example, one of the tools and equipment that humans have to control in these areas is to include national parks. Other countries have done so, setting an example. Thus, such suitable conditions can be had despite the rights of guide guides who may not have much knowledge of Icelandic nature. What is the government doing about this? For example, would it not be useful to create a large national park in the middle of Iceland's highlands for this purpose? I'd like to hear what work's going on at the highest level. A government in these matters because it's urgent. It's burning on all of us. Unfortunately, in other areas, when it comes to a number of tourists, whom the government has floundered completely asleep to the point of death.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A sincere senator for this inquiry. I think it is very deserving, and I can share the senator's concerns about the situation in many tourist areas. I have certainly felt the same way about encouraging more involved guides with groups of tourists. In the government of the park we are both in, a Celebrity National Park, it is considered whether guests will be not to be prepared for a group trip down the Almangah under guidance. There may be frequent travel. I think that's the way it is, and this is what I've talked to National Parkers about. The senator is correct in saying that there is no special work going on. This has been discussed in some areas. I'm sure it's a much better look at this subject. I share the concern of the senator and feel that much is justified in his case in this matter. Whether we begin in the national parks - I can say very well. We have three national parks very different types, as we know. Þingeir is a national park for culture primarily, a Lakejorkland park because of glaciers and fire trades and takes over about 15% of the country, and then a Snæfells National Park, which is natural with rural areas and urban areas inside the park. They are different national parks, and I'm sure they'll try to look into them. But I don't quite see, and will answer in later my answer, how a new idea of a great park on the highland should solve this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u23	A respectable president. Let me explain. You see, humans can set rules for national parks, or guideliness, in certain areas. I think in our most vulnerable areas, the tourist current is such that we have to do it. The nature of Iceland is special. It is quite different from the nature of Europe's continent from where most of these guides come. Today, however, there is a great demand for guides elsewhere that, even farther away, who have no knowledge that it is not okay, for example, to drive on the sandy tops of Iceland. They leave trails and scars that heal late or never. Therefore, it is the duty of the government to be working on how to use the means of government that is used in the national parks to prevent damage. We've seen that the government has been unable to handle this when it comes to the largest tourist attractions. She's got to get up. She has to start running the dirty word and start dealing with these problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u24	A respectable president. Once again, I thank you for this. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the government is not at all correct in this or other matters. For example, it was the General Assembly of the Icelanders who did not issue the introduction bill of the Minister here, so it is now entering the council. I think that's the basis why we can start maping and building up the interiors of our country's tourism sites and how we're going to handle things, how we're going to distribute traffic. I truly agree that the Ministry needs to think about the nature of the whole country. Of course, there are also rules on a more sensitive position. But I think my job is to look after nature wherever she is. She's all fragile, she's special, but, of course, she's more sensitive in the middle of the country than in other areas because of its height and weather. I think we should start with, if we're going to do well, the national parks that we have. I agree to see what we can do about controlled guides.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to direct an inquiry to the highest level. Education and Culture Minister on when to expect the decision to be made by the Commission as the highest level. Last November, a minister ordered a review of a law on the Icelandic loan fund. The committee was to make a suggestion no later than December 15th. The matter has now been at the Government Constitution and the Supreme Court. Minister for the last two years, if I recall correctly. It is imperative that these matters be addressed, and we need to start seeing this bill enter the council. The situation in which Icelandic students live today regarding the loan fund of Icelandic students is totally below every block. How the distribution is performed - not taken into account, for example, by students who are in full - wound showers. Medical students or students in foreign lands repeatedly struggle with the loan. The default target is too low, especially if we are considering the highest level. The government wants special policy; 2.5 million a year is all a student can have, of which 1.5 million are from the loan. There is also a degree of discrimination to study in which students, new students, who are starting school at the University of Iceland or at the University of Akureyri often have to take the long way from the region to the capital area. It's just not anyone who can do it. It is very difficult for Icelandic students to start studying. For example, there are no scholarships. It is not to suggest that students from abroad receive a special scholarship to start studies where they have to move far to college. I want to know what you're doing in these matters and when you can expect a bill from the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u26	A respectable president. On November 3, 2015, I appointed a commission to reexamine the Icelandic loan fund. One of the first works of the committee was to make a meeting with key stakeholders and to seek their viewpoints before the law's review was under way. In addition to these meetings, stakeholders were given the opportunity to send written comments and views on future bill. I'd like to report it here, a respectable president, and thank you immediately. A senator for the inquiry, that on March 11 of the past year, the Ministry received proposals for a reexamination of the law, with significant changes in the arrangement we know. I will soon present the proposed administration in the government, then for members of Congress, and request continued consultation with stakeholders. Then the council will, and then, well. A senator, thereby, will be given an opportunity to discuss the matter here in the council halls.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u27	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you very much. Minister for this answer. I am very pleased to learn that a bill will soon enter the council table and especially in the event of significant changes. In fact, it depends on the changes involved. Are we moving closer to the North American loan system, where a part of the loan is often a source of strength or all the loans you're borrowing if you finish your study? Or are we even closer to the U.S. model where we have to search for some independent loans? Now, the fund does nothing particularly well, and it needs to be considered. We need to make sure that there is no greater distinction between the situation of the generations by allowing different generations to have different opportunities for study. I feel that my generation and the follow-up pays more for what you, or the older generation, owned or did first.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u28	A respectable president. This is where I represent the older generations of generations. You're absolutely right, as hell. A senator here says that these generation calculations need to be kept in mind when making policy - making decisions, including the provision of financial assistance. Without me going to have a lot of talk about the loan fund, I'd say two things are obvious. On the one hand, the trend has been seen in tunneles and checks on the fund, that if nothing is done, the financial risks of the fund will continue to grow and ultimately become a big problem for us. It is therefore essential that we take action. But the question is, Where does that strength go? It is the question of taking a stand on who's going to get the scholarship and why and why we want to use it, but up to half of the money the state puts into the loan is a scholarship. The question is, Which strength will flow? We need to take a stand on that, a respectable president. So we get an efficient educational loan system that depends on us and achieves the goal of creating a social equation for learning. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u29	A respectable president. I want to direct my case to the highest. Prime Minister as foreman in this government. We were very happy in the United States when we saw it. Department of Social Affairs presents birthworm policy. A report was introduced under Jón Jónsson, a former senator, and it was a great pleasure to see because we have presented similar cases in the United States, i.e. that there will be an increase in the peak favors, and then the birthworm will be extended from nine months to twelve months. This is a policy that we started with during our last term but was withdrawn from this government. I see now that the advance party is coming back and is ready to take this road with us and others in this room, which is most enjoyable. However, they do react, so yesterday the vice president of the legal committee stands up. paritaprevir Guðlaugur of Þórðarson's goddess, entraps this by saying that he has grown tired of his own promises and that it is a privilege to pay expenses even to thousands of millions of dollars without realizing how to finance them or save them in return. He was very aggressive in the policy of the highest degree. Social and housing minister introduced. Two years ago, this government fell into the birth policy budget from 1.28% to 0.65%. The ASI president of Arnbjörnsson's Gylfi son has declared that if we had 1.28%, it would be a long way up to pay for the suggestions that have been proposed. So I ask the highest. Whether it is possible to return this money to the birth - stocked orb so that we alone can make those suggestions come true. [[The president calls.]] These funds were not used to reduce the entire amount of insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u30	A respectable president. Thank you for a good question. You're right. A senator comes only on, progressive candidates have for many years been very interested in the promotion of the birthworm system, and they have taken a very big step in doing so. In fact, I think that all the major milestones in maternity issues in Iceland were under the lead of candidates. Now the results of that work have been presented. A senator referred to and is apparently a good job, worked under the lead of our former associate at the council, Jón Jónsson. The results of the work then go into the work ahead of the budget where this government, like any other government, stands, of course in front of priorities. It is often difficult to get ahead of myself, but I don't talk about it the way it is now when people agree, I think I can say, that there is a great need to promote health issues. I believe that older citizens and disability need to continue to be improved as well. Housekeeping is a big group of paintings. I could continue to list important issues that make priorities always difficult. This good thing goes into that work, and hopefully we can continue to improve our birthfowl in Iceland, where, as I mentioned earlier, we've been taking a very big step through the past under the lead of candidates.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u31	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister did not answer my question. What I'm talking about here is that this is a sentence from the legal committee vice president. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson's son, a spokesman for the Independence Party in the state of the estate of this hall, as an empty promise, i.e. not to be expected because it has not been financed by men. What he passes on in this discussion is that this government made a decision to lower the donations from 1.28% to 0.65%. It was not for lowering the insurance bill; at least it did not work out to those who pay the insurance money; it was transferred and placed in other cases. Therefore, my question is, Is it not the most reasonable thing for this money to be returned to the stock of birth orcs so that we can start building it again? The roof of payment has not been raised for three years, and one of the first works of this government was reducing the length from nine to twelve months. I think we can get together to return this money back to the stocking orcs, and I hope to the highest. Minister would agree with me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u32	A respectable president. It was a big priority for this government to stop running state funds with a surrie, stop collecting debt. Few bites are as bad in future generations as in debt. That is why we resolved to run the Kingdom with rest, as we have done from the beginning. As a result, there were some places where money had to be saved. However, the increase in insurance costs back then came mainly because there was a sudden rise in unemployment in Iceland. We've reduced the insurance bill in steps, but that's right. A senator mentioned, not all the insurance fees are going to run a stream of employment insurance. This is part of the amount of time that a person has to play, and while the insurance price has not been cut down more, it must be taken to the work ahead of the priorities. Of course, I reiterate to the point that those in attendance appreciate the importance of having a powerful birthworm system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u33	Mr. President. There is a great demand for electricity in the country now. There's a lot of stuff in there. The growth in domestic activities has increased and the demand for energy in the country is increasing. There are new and old jobs that need this energy, and as a result, the construction of energy-efficient industry and industry may now be hampered by a large industry. Hence, it is important that we use at any given time all the resources we have to produce more energy, and now we have seen that the Whirlwinding of the West has been discussed for a long time. It has passed through a policy framework for the protection and use of energy and has been put into a category of innovations in that process. These activation options are highly supportive in the region as environmental impacts are negligible. In this situation, it is so important that we discuss just the energy options and how we can draw close to it. This discussion also involves a discussion of the delivery security of electrical power on the West, called the electrical fuel system's ringlinks on the West. When this is summed up in the form of improving the availability of electrical energy and the ring connection of the West, and the activation options we may have on the West, in addition to what we have called Invasion, which have also now brought us greater weight in our discussion, we need to get ahead with the discussion and approach it from a point of view that we need to build a new one in order to get this energy. So it is focused on the Landsnet and the definition of a new energy delivery site, located deep in Isafjörg deep, often called in the Naurus. This gives rise to economic grounds for going to the challengers of Involved and possibly two smaller inactivations there on the pagans known as subcontinent water activation and eastern healing. It is discussed in a discussion of these initiatives that their financial possibilities are closely linked because we define a new link point in Isafjörður. So I'd like to ask the following questions to the highest level. Industrial Minister: 1st How does the task of improving the delivery of electrical energy on the West berry by means of a so-called circle connection and the linking of Involvement in Undeterred? 2. What will be the next steps related to the INS and periphery of the West?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. The foreground for this query. It's a good time for this case. A week ago, I was attending a meeting at Isafjörður, a meeting of the Western Professional Development Society, and a Fourthsome Union was the source of electrical power during the West. There were also local representatives from Landsnet, Power Institute, Energy Farms Westfjords, and recruitment agents. During the meeting, the exact position to which the query is involved and particularly discussed in the course of a circle connection on the West Sealine and the linking of the Whirlwind to the transport system. The situation in which the inquiry is directed is that they are making good progress. During the meeting at Isafjordon, if these projects were to become reality, the unity of all who were working on their progress would be a revolution. As one inquirer could have thought of the ring - connection ideas on the West, so have the views. We've been studying them in a special Western Committee on energy issues established a few years ago and is being led by a energy manager involved in energy companies and locals. Last November, at a meeting of the committee, new ideas were reviewed on the ring connection and connection between Inflation and Transportation. The venal point has become in this case that the ideas now go to a new interface point, such as the one who prosecuting mentioned, i.e. the drop point of electrical energy at the Landsnet would be located at the bottom of Icefjörg's deep. This will provide economic grounds for the development of Involved Involvement and two other smaller inducers, subcontinent water activation, and eastern healing. As the senator mentioned, Investigation has been in the new series of framelines since the completion of the first series at the General Assembly at the beginning of 2013. That conclusion was unconcerned. The rationalizing of the task management framework points out that this is the only activation option in Western Europe evaluated by all trade groups. To quote the word for word: that activation of the West is important for energy security there. Up to now, Inpiration has not been managed financially because of the high cost of transport and the system progress aimed at the connecting point of the transport system in Geiradal. To set up a link point in the new location at the bottom of Isafjörður, the cost of activation is about 2 billion. of about 500 million. K. and thus provides financial support. So a new interface point changes all criteria for both WRD activation and cyclic linking on the West. The country's network has taken over this idea, and it is now a matter for further consideration in cooperation with the recruiters. It is then the Power Institute to allow such a project to be performed on the basis of electrical laws. The linking of these three activations to a new port point at the bottom of the Deep will allow electricity to be introduced from these new activations into the sub-directional transport system, which would be the first step to start with activation projects, possibly immediately after this year, as shown in the meeting in Isafjordur. In turn, a further reversal step would have to be considered by transfer of electricity from the new link point to northwest into Iceafjörður. However, this is a complex matter, one of which is an idea of sea cables over the Deep. This issue would need to be considered for influence in order to form a seabed and an estimate of that factor. The third step to close the ring connection would then have to be added to the current line in southwest from Isafjordur to the south. So I view these matters as a matter of action, and I'm so happy. It has not been viewed as a need for these ideas to be realized, in contrast with what once existed, where the high level of contracting with the old ideas called for the administration of the State and for the adjustment of the law to reduce those contributions. However, it is now assumed, as I said earlier, that the activation will depend on the cost of the new interface and that the activation will carry the cost of binding. However, the Council continues to implement this matter in agreement with the Power Institute, the Landsnet and the organisations involved in the implementation of the project. Unchanged, therefore, the recruitment providers will apply for the licenses that must be applied in the following months, and Landsnet and Power Institute will continue to investigate and prepare for a new link point in the bottom of the Deep. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u35	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion, which is very important to take place, especially at the highest level. Ministers I also thank for the positive comments made by the minister regarding the work being carried out there. It is also safe to rejoice that people are finally on hand to see the opportunity to use the energy available in the West, and it is important that we do all we can to encourage and help them get on with this project. This is, in fact, the basis for finally ensuring safe electricity for the Vests. At the same time, we have had the opportunity to establish a so - called ring connection that is just as important. By getting this connection to the Nautilus and then moving forward and moving the lines and phone lines on the Western team, we have created a new environment in the West where, first of all, humans can have safer energy, build and offer up new employment opportunities, etc. And to improve the favour of all the inhabitants. This goes far beyond the town in Iceland, it goes all over the jaw and also to the scattered settlements that see great opportunities in this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u36	A respectable president. Like others, I want to thank for this discussion and thank you for the highest comments. Minister and say that I think I can get an assignment that can be as positive for the Westfarmer as it is what we're talking about here. If we succeed, we can be talking about a 30 to40 billion investment in the West in years, and everyone will see that less for a community like the West. I want to say, too, that I'm very happy. As long as it has been handled by the minister of this matter, it has always benefited her. I remember that two years ago or so I came to the highest level. A minister told her that I had a bill ready to define a new link point and a circle connection between electrical power on the West. I already drew that bill. A minister wanted to look into it. She has, and she has handled these matters well ever since the first day, following them closely, and I trust the highest. Minister well to continue. I support her for her whole mind in her actions, saying that there's no reason except for my bill to remain in a drawer because I trusted the highest. Minister to follow this closely. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u37	Mr. President. This case is perfectly traced. It is heartwarming to know that at last there are circumstances that make it possible to attack these activations. In my time as a industrial minister, it was taken very well. At that time, energy prices were simply far from high enough to produce the activation. Now two things have happened. First, there is a new link to land activation, making the cost more than 1.5 billion. There has also been a dramatic rise in energy prices, so even without the new link point close to the fact that this activation would occur in the blood. I believe this will make a difference in the construction of employment and industry on the West. This greatly improved job situation because it is finally possible to see a proper delivery security on the West. At this point let's not forget--for there are people here talking about bills in drawers downstairs--that this was put forth the bill of the oar. paritaprevir Father Karl V. Matthíasson's son in his day for this work. I wish to the highest. Ministers successful in this business. þm. Haraldur the son of Benedict, I thank you for taking up this urgent matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u38	A respectable president. It's very good that this discussion has entered the council. I'm glad we're having this conversation today. The discussion, as mentioned above, is very important in connection with the electroenergy interests of Western countries, which have said, in most cases, had very little insecurity in those materials for decades. Of course, the most important interest in this relationship is the ring-link that is most important to the electrical security. There's talk of a revolution here in that case and that the linking force in Isafjörður is the key. We must stick together to try to ensure that this integration will be achieved, which suggests that it will reduce the high level of transport cost due to the BRD. It's complicated, says the highest. Minister. [[The president calls.]] Let us also see that the result is not completely a result of the ring connection and that the electricity flows through the West. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I insist that our role now is, of course, to ensure that the conclusion, not that we are here in support of a matter that does not lead to a decision to the area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u39	Mr. President. I thank you for the fine discussion here, both very good answers at the top. A minister of industry I trust in in this matter and know her mind, he's made it clear here, as well as other subjugations that the case has received here. All I'm saying is that it really is important that we have clear vision and clear answers right now, for in the next few weeks we have to make decisions about the very need and the spending of projects related to the progress of this work. I'm going to say in my afternoon speech in this inquiry that I think, as has also been shown in part of the discussion, that few still realize how wonderful opportunities are being made there, not just for the Westerners, but for the nation's ready. It may be possible to produce substantial amounts of electricity, and in the condition in which we are in right now, it is important that we make a difference. Of course, we want to keep up - to - date so that we can make the most of the energy we can use on the West for a job building and for an increase in value there. Then let us not forget that today we move to the Westfjords of other parts of the country, if we want to sort these into the provinces, also a substantial amount of electricity, so that we could both get an additional power and use the electricity that goes to work in other places. I will then only say at the end of my second speech on this matter to the highest degree. In order to continue this important matter, the secretary of the trade has been greatly impressed and is well supported by the council. Thank you for the good answers. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u40	A respectable president. To be sure, it is a great pleasure to hear that we have already found a matter that all of us can agree to be good at in this room. May there be more in the months to come and loss. But you'll find, like the meeting in Iceland last week, very anxious for the West when you're getting improvements in electronics, secure electrical security. There we have taken some recent steps with reserve stations in Bolungarvík and new ones, and improved constructions at Isafjordur. As someone mentioned at the meeting, the goal is to make the backup station unnecessary, although new, to have power security so that we don't need to rely on a reserve power station but that we will arrange matters to secure the Vests as much opportunity as we have elsewhere in our country. There are truly many opportunities in the job world that I've heard of and that I'm watching so that I really hope we can see big steps in the months ahead. As I say, if a project can be started later this year, I think there would be many who would celebrate it. This matter has a long turn of events, and this new brand is a source of great joy. As mentioned in the discussion, this issue has long been on the drawing table, so I'm glad we look at an improved position in this case, and I really hope that we will be able to make more news of it in the months to come. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u41	A respectable president. In recent years our neighbors have continued to experiment with a process called negotiation, both personal and criminal matters. It has often been effective, and when it is, it proves to be both faster and less expensive than the traditional courts. In some cases, criminal abuse is a matter of recognition. They want to see the person repent and to see for himself that he has done something wrong. Research shows that the trauma of trauma can speed up the recovery process by directly speaking to the offender about the trauma that has been causing him. Similarly, to the wrongdoer, it may be dangerous for him to sit up in the face of his wrongdoing and explain his actions and listen to the experiences of his own wrongdoing. This makes the wrongdoer much clearer to the impact of the offense, often clearer than the standard court treatment. Of course, it is not absolute, but it should not be made up of unless both parties feel that it is possible to be useful. For reconciliation to be successful, both parties must be prepared. It is impossible to force fragility to confront a wrongdoer. Similarly, little means getting a wrongdoer who does not want to make peace with one another. On the other hand, communication has brought good results, even under difficult circumstances, when both sides are willing to try it. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Firstly, Minister of the Interior: Has a minister researched the possibility of developing a formal pactal action in criminal affairs, as has been done in our neighboring countries, including Norway and Denmark? Second, has a minister studied the experience of an investigation of a case-of-judgment experiment carried out in this country between 2006 and 2007? If so, how does the Minister weigh the experience from that assignment? Third, has a minister examined the experiences of reconciliation in terms of improvement or improvement in the damages of broken blood and in the other cases correction of a person's behavior? Fourth: Does a minister of the criminal reconciliation have the potential to increase efficiency and prosperity in the legal system?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and will try to answer it in any way in the whole. Like what? A member of the body has given a reputation for reconciliation, and it is an excellent tool. In 2006 a two - year - testing project on reconciliation was set up by the then minister of justice. At the same time, he set up a committee to supervise the project and returned a report on the project in 2009. In connection with the procedure, the Attorney General of Justice ordered the district attorney to implement specific aspects of reconciliation, i.e. to determine which fractures to take, what would be required for the treatment, age limit, at what time it should be completed, and how it should be completed. On the basis of this, the U.S. attorney has issued an order. 13/2011, from April 1, 2011, which stipulates how to negotiate criminal matters and is still under orders. The premonitions show that, in most cases, a police officer, in terms of issues, criminal issues, and lawsuits on matters involving theft, robbery, housebreaking, threat, property damage, minor assaults, or usefulness, could be referred to compromise. At this assessment, it is important that special warnings be given with such treatment and, therefore, that the general warning effects do not specifically object. At the same time, it is stated that reconciliation is particularly desirable for young people, young people, aged 15 in the age of 21. If reconciliation occurs, it should be agreed upon by a written agreement. On the basis of the confirmation of such agreements, the defendant may be disbarred by a court of law on the treatment of criminal charges. It is therefore assumed that reconciliation can be used in certain cases, and thus it is part of the measures that can be used to solve the criminal situation. Have the chief of police held a two-time treaty course for police officials. According to government prosecutor data, a average of 40 cases per year have been applied to reconciliation since 2007. Has most of them ended at peace, or approximately 80% of the cases. This, however, is not a major issue in general and has been discussed by a informal group of police representatives and district attorneys on how to improve the way of these measures. A communication service is, as stated earlier, part of the measures that can be used to solve criminal problems and may be a better solution to both the offender and the offender than the judge and the punishment. However, a formal review of the results has not been made of the issues that have been going through the compromise process. In my opinion, there is good reason to review the results of this and how it has affected both the offender and the offender. Following such a study, it would be possible to evaluate whether an agreement should be made in a different way and, for example, in our neighboring countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u43	V.E.G. President. I'm coming up here where this way, sharing in criminal intercourse, has been discussed in the General and Education Committee. There's been a case on board there. Like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, there are cases where people are often seeking a certain reconciliation, forgiveness, or just recognition of certain factors rather than punishment to the other person. It's like the highest. A minister entered in this case of individuals between 15 and 31 years of age. Although the law expects adults in that age range, it is not always the case. So this route could work as a definite intervention or prophylaxis for this age group, and although today it is only 40 cases per year and 80% of them will get a good solution, we might reason: " What will happen when 100 or 200 are used in this way? So I think it's worth looking at.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for this discussion that I consider important, and I'm dealing with some options that we should discuss more and consider in the broader context as a solution to criminal affairs. During the session on March 4, 2015, I called attention to a letter sent by the director of the children. Minister of the Interior, February 2015. This letter included the provision of reconciliation and the need for it to be available for children who have committed crimes. I'd like to take this opportunity to encourage the highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister to establish specific work to help improve this strategy so as to ensure that it is available for children who have committed a crime but also in a broader field. I would like to remind them of Clare Mcglynn, a professor of law in the United Kingdom, who has studied sexual intercourse. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior for the answers. Like the first day, they are not greatly disappointed. I thank them too. Councilmen who brought up the matter. It is a joy to hear of the way in which this matter is being followed and to see that it is real interest in this matter. The last point as good as any. paritaprevir Implicit Anna Sævarsdóttir raised a question that we should seriously consider, i.e. the use of appropriate measures in more serious matters than the highest number of fractures. A minister listed earlier. It can be. A serious offense is not necessarily the best solution to the fracture. At least it's worth looking at. It is also worth considering how education is being conducted in these matters. The presence of some form of expert in these matters may make a big difference. I'm assuming that the highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister is to be considered in time. In any case, it is important in my opinion that we continue to look for advice that may reduce the need for incarceration as a remedy. We must use methods that are upbuilding when we see an opportunity to do so, but I rejoice to see that this town's attitude at the high Council is at least okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u46	A respectable president. After the inquiry, I have to say for my part that I've been a bit thinking. It may be said that it has something to do with our discussion of full - time matters, punishments, and the results we want to see with those who have to take such measures, especially for young people. I think that even now it has been found that this strategy can be of great benefit to young people. I notice what the senators have said to encourage them in this regard. I want to thank you again. A senator for calling attention to this matter and keeping the subject in place. I think there's good reason to go over thoroughly the way the process has been made and whether it can be possible and right to expand it somehow or how people want to look at it. This must always be done regularly. Now, as I mentioned, there is an informal group at work, and I take it back with me that we should consider whether our options have met the goals we intended or if we can do something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u47	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Minister of state for coming and answering the inquiry today. This is the third one in the series on similar topics. There's a lot of complications in the health and social security system. One of these complications is that people with persistent and stable disability or disability are not distinguished from those with temporary or variable disability or disability. As a result, people with stable, long - standing disability and disability need repeatedly to apply for reinvigoration on health products, car parking cards, training, and rights in order to be replaced by tools, although the individual is experiencing disability or disability throughout his life. The Regulation I'm going to ask the highest. The minister is the Regulation for publication and the use of motion-advising U.S. accessories. 369/2000. In 1st. By permission of the President, this Regulation says: ▪ In connection with the transport of those who have received such maps, the ability to park vehicles anywhere in the country in a car area intended for the disabled, and there is an easy signal. Two. you will discuss an application procedure and how it should be done. That, in fact, is what the Bible says.:•In the case of a parking lot application, follow the doctor's certificate to follow the instructions of a surgeon. In the 3rd. says, with permission of the president: The legislator shall submit an independent assessment of the need for space application and ensure that adequate information on the movement of the candidate is available prior to the appointment of a card version or renewal. In Comb 4. Which is the one I'm going to ask the highest. (b) What questions will be considered in the next article? mgUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: A map should be published for a maximum period of five years, but not less than two years. If temporary need is required, a short - term card may be given. Mr. President. Much work and energy is required by repeatedly applying for renewal and a lot of waste in time, abilities and resources to help people, health professionals needed to do the work, receive and review of Witness and application, and the community. In addition, modern technology development has to handle registrations that prevent this imbalance. It is important to record the persistent and sustained disability of individuals who are stored in a database so that the information does not always need to be returned. The requirement for proof of the burden of disabled people, desperate people, and victims of their own existence is humiliating and demeaning the rights of people to enjoy natural and human dignity according to international human rights obligations. That's why I want to direct this question to the highest level. Minister: Precise secretary reviews Regulation on revision and the use of parking cards for motion-adminished numbers. 369/1200, especially 2 mg. 4. g., in order to minimise the need for renewal of applications for motor disability in the group of people with permanent disability or disease?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u48	V.E.G. President. I'm very kind to answer that question. A senator on this subject. This is followed by a review of the version Regulation and the use of motion deficits. 369/1200, conducted at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, according to an evidence of self - survival. One of the reasons is whether the need for renewal can be reduced in the group of people with permanent disability or disease. In accordance with local regulations it is stated in 2 mg. Section 4. that a parking map should be published for a maximum of five years, but not for less than two years. If a temporary need is needed, a short - term card may be issued. If we look at comparable regulations in neighboring countries, we have a temporary motor disaster shortage in Norway and Sweden up to a maximum of five years, such as in this country. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Norway also has a minimum period of two years, but it may be shorter in exceptional circumstances. However, in Denmark there is a maximum ten - year period but with the exception that there is information on the individual's health or other circumstances... I'm impressed, sir, that these maligning men are going to some other room. - If there is information on the fact that the health of an individual or other situation gives reason to believe that the conditions for publishing the problem will fall from value within ten years of publication or that renewal is permitted to shorten the value time. I hope this doesn't make sense. V.E.G. President. The possibility of extending the duration of the driving crisis should be considered in this country for 10 years with conditions similar to those taken in Denmark, i.e. if you are aware that no change in physical activity is predictable. If this finding is the case, shorter durations for temporary need as well as minimum duration of time could be observed. It can be concluded that the longer time of the parking lot would be saved for the State and that the efforts of users would be greatly reduced. So the above views will include Consideration should be given to review of the current Regulation. Internal Affairs will have close consultation with stakeholders and relevant organisations end up with a review of the Regulation to better coordinate maps'distribution, time and assessment of candidates.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u49	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and rejoices that the revision should be carried out, but according to the record I have since 2010 reviewed. That's a bit much time for me to decide on this matter. I would have wanted to see that it had happened and that it was natural to ask because it is rather tiresome for those who make good use of that service. V.E.G. Minister mentioned even. to see if this need for renewal might be diminished and spoken for ten years. I can't quite figure out why, as I mentioned in my speech earlier, it's not allowed to be that information is in a database so that people who truly have long - standing and life - long disability or disability do not need to be applied repeatedly. According to what I know, surgeon generals have not wanted to set standards for who is capable and who is not allowed to be a patient, hence there are no criteria that are very bad. Each year in Iceland, a new or new card is published, which will appear to be more serious. This is not available in any database. These are the statistics collected by Iceland's Environment Association and Survival. It tells me that this class, like so many others, doesn't have statistics, and we don't know what the situation is. Once again, I rejoice that a revision is being carried out. I challenge the highest. Minister to speed up that review. This was also shown in the case of the highest. Ministers to consult with those involved in these matters and cooperation. I want to reiterate it and point it to the top. The secretary of the state should consult with those who use the ministry, for one of the key elements of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people is that those who use the ministry are included. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u50	V.E.G. President. I couldn't agree more. A senator will be wise to consult with those who make good use of the ministry. I have to agree with that, too. A senator and I believe that the rationality is in the sense that when it comes to individuals with no hope for relief, and they know what they're about to be in the future, the rationality says that it should be possible to have this permission longer without my going to make any further comments about it today. I can see the concern of those who have to rely on that service and that it was important that they understand the matter. I agree with that. Senator. I think that's absolutely necessary. If there's any walls, it's fine because we can talk about it. But in the absence of it, we cannot discuss it at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u51	Mr. President. The founding and operating of national parks in this country is a remarkable contribution that has become a lift. It has become a source in the areas where they have been established and often does a great deal for the communities where their residence is and where the services centres for them are built and can promote both the work and culture of the relevant regions. On June 28, 2001, the National Park of Snæfells was founded, and it is one of the national parks that we have joined to operate. A preparatory group was appointed to build a national park on Hellissandi in 2005. A competitive campaign continued to promote the construction and appearance of national parks in 2006. Then, in 2008, the proposal was prepared for tenders and is expected to cost about 300 million. K. We all know the reasons why it was then that we had been turning aside from building the parklike center that had been designed and prepared, but then some time has passed, and it is time for us to consider the next steps in building up for the national park of Snæfells. It is vital that we put our trust in the park's affairs by starting the projects that we need to begin with the National Park Center. She is by herself very important, especially as a result of the guest's reception, and as an example. It's important for information in general and travel through Snæfells and Westland. More tourists are now coming and staying there longer so that with the construction of the National Park, there may be an increase in financial resources that will benefit the inhabitants. Thus, the central station can become a great lift for tourism. A guest center was opened on the Hell in 2004. During her first year of service, about 4 thousand visitors visited, in 2014 there were well over 18 thousand guests, and in 2015 there were guests up to 30 thousand. These figures show the tremendous growth in the number of tourists in the area. Therefore, Mr. President, I allow myself to ask the highest question. Environment and resource minister: What's its priorities in building national parks on Hellsander?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson's son for his inquiry. As noted in his case, much has changed since 2008 and is now becoming the focus of many today, when society is no longer in drawings. This park, in effect, suffered from what happened here in those years and has remained for eight years. The park on the Snæfells has a long turn of events. I want it to appear here that it was Eysteinn Jónsson who led the discussion and suggested in the Institute of Natural Protection, in 1972, over 40 years ago, that there would be a national park. Then you can see in each of the annual Parliaments that the project was constantly being tried to push in, so this kind can take a long time. The establishment of a national park called a national park under a glacier was assumed. As noted, June 28, 2001, the National Park was founded on a beautiful June Day. I was happy to be there on that model day with an organization on Snæfells. The park was established for the protection of the special nature of the region and a great number of historical monuments. All of us know that over the past few years, there have been significant changes in the activities in other areas because of the growth in the number and growth of tourists. Then, naturally, we know that the park is special in that it is under the supervision of the EEA. We have three national parks; the park on Snæfellsnes, the National Park on the Matrix, which is under the custody of the Ministry of Presidency and the Waters Light National Park, which is directly under the Environment and Resource Ministry, such as the Environment Agency and the National Park. It is also true that competition for the National Park was held, and it was chosen a proposal that has been designed and developed even better. Hence, the design of a house and an organization was in this location, not far above the Hellshaking site. I believe that was a good partnership with the Snæfells Society. I'd like to say here that the director of the EEA and the mayor of Snæfellsville came to me at the Ministry and urged me and the Ministry for good work regarding the National Park. Like other national parks, I really want to come to this national park. I've fought for a national park center in a church town dresser. She's in the budget. I don't think it's the kind of place I'm gonna build on Hellissandi. It's a bit of a bold building, but it fits very well into the environment. I think we have to keep running the planned building. We all know about the pearls of the Snowstone. There is unique beauty and history, as the Nobel poet well described; where the glacier fits the ceiling. I repeat, in view of the foretold increase in tourists, it is urgent to consider planning and to try to spread the currents by means of exciting tourist routes. I don't know any better than a recent foreign survey of what the Snæfells have to offer, and there's really an attractive place. Then we'll have to be ready for the inside. That's why I'll try to push it as if I could possibly be able to continue with this center. We've pressed it and asked about it for the last few weeks. The cost management plan is not yet fully established, but it is thought that the center will cost no more than the center we plan to build in a church town's river. So I think it's normal that these two national parks watch for service centres. We try to get the National Park on Hellissandi to start, as has been done in a church town monasteries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u53	Mr. President. The condition is rare. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson standing by on the sideline. But I thank him for the inquiry, as well. Minister to his answers. It has now been over 20 years since I made a proposal to serve as environmental minister in the reign of Davíð's son Oddsson, who was eventually approved and led to this long - awaited work of many at last. You're absolutely right at the highest. Minister, that no one moved that idea with the most sharperness than the Eysteinn Jónsson, one of the great candidates of the Agency, and may be called the founder of nature protection in Iceland. It has been a great many years since then. Many years have passed since the formalization of the park, and many years have passed since man's decision to attack in the construction of the National Park on Hellissandi. I don't think it's a coincidence she was chosen there. The most fighting for the National Park was Skúli Alexandersson, a former general who had just died. I think it would be a great honor to his memory that men were driving this thing to work. I'm just as happy as I am. The minister has declared that the National Park and the Minister's own abortion in a local church monasteries are to be observed. [[The president calls.]] It's important, and it's important for Snæfells, for tourism in Iceland and for nature under the glacier that we're going to do this for the very first. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u54	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you, too, the highest. Environment and resource minister for her answers. I agree with her because she says that it is important that these national parks be built together, i.e. The center at the church town's house and the one we'll discuss here, the National Park Center of the Snæfell Seven Cold of Hellissandi. Whether we look at all infrastructures because of tourism or other factors, I feel that, as in memory of a previous talk, the building is important in promoting the development of the rest of the traveling work in the Western country and its activities. I reiterate to the mild - tempered people, the meek ones, has waited for a long time before the answers to when the National Park Committee will begin. At that time, others have also gained strength, and the more prosperous society has also developed in other areas. It is now on the drawing board, and hopefully soon the drifter's decision will be made for the further growth of other infrastructures, such as communication and the increased spread of electrical cables, i.e. electrical cables in the ground. So there is a lot going on in this area that supports our efforts to build the national park. I repeat my gratitude to the Minister and believe at this moment most of all that we can say with any certainty that the park is about to begin with the National Park as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u55	A respectable president. I repeat, my resolve is to look for ways to finance this project, but the funding is not at the dock of these spoken words. Now I look to both. The senator and the prime speaker here will be able to support us in our efforts to receive funding for the project. I know he will. I don't have much more to add, but we're supposed to stay at the location, there's no debate about the location. She's been decided, i.e. ... andI won'tchangeit. I think it's a fancy building, it's a natural animal, and that's just a 2007 model. It has been reduced only by extracting a scholar's apartment in the building to reduce the cost. But we can only see that the center is very similar to the one planned for Klausri, and it is normal to do so. Now I encourage everyone to help us find the funds and to get started as soon as possible so that the project will be completed in the next two years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u56	A respectable president. It has been a matter of time before that, as members of the Council, we agree that it is necessary to defend the language of the United States. It is in a defense struggle in a multilingual world, especially because the world has become so digital. At the top. Ministers have had some exchanges on these matters, and I have sensed that we share our understanding of the situation, that the Icelandic language needs all our support, and that the Icelandic language is also the value we want to protect, not just for Iceland and Iceland, but for all the nations and families of the languages used by the world's inhabitants to communicate their expectations, dreams, and desires, and write down their memories or their political reflections after an incident. We now have considerable financial resources that are needed for this protection against the English language. V.E.G. Minister and chief. The government proposed a financial bill, which was by no means the most familiar of terms needed in the first round. The government's situation was merged with the change of proposals to the budget, including the change of the subject, where we added a considerable bit more to the budget. V.E.G. Secretary of finance, such as other government officials, voted against that addition. So I ask: What's the highest plan. Minister for Icelandic language status in a digital world? And: What is the progress of this funding of the project with reference to the early prognostication and comments of a minister? In the words of a minister, he felt that it was proper for him to cooperate with the professional life in these areas. That's why nothing's been heard since the highest point. This was mentioned by a minister in a discussion of the budget and in a special discussion in the English language of the day. So the third question is, how will work together with the work force on digital technology?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u57	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for speaking the language's situation. First, in 2014, the Ministry of Education and Culture was organized by experts in grammatical and information technology to implement measures aimed at curing Icelandic currency in digital information technology and promoting its use in that field. In December 2014, the Committee returned a report to the Ministry, where measures were proposed and proposed to invest in Icelandic language technology using a specific long-term program to 10 years that strengthened both doctors and individual technical development and infrastructure projects. Iceland would thus follow the example of several European nations that we compare with and build the necessary foundation so that by the end of the programme, the Icelandic will be joined in neighboring languages in support of language technology. The committee feels that in this area the nation has no choice is a real will to allow Icelanders to continue using Icelandic languages in all areas of national life. Legal funds went into operation last year through the Ministry of Education and Culture and made up of it in accordance with the proposals of the Committee. It is designed to strengthen grammatical projects and to promote the use of digital information in Icelandic technology. The aim, on the other hand, is to promote and protect the Icelandic language and to facilitate the use of new communication technology in Icelandic society for the benefit of the public, institutions and companies. You're right. A senator noted that on the budget of this year, there are 30 million. K. Provided for grammatical projects that will be made up of the Language Fund. The fund's funding will be provided for certain well-defined research and technology development projects and local products of Icelandic language technology. The fund's administration is made up of three sources. One is nominated by the Association of Information Technologies, another of the university's Cooperative Committee, and the third is appointed by a minister without a form of appointment and is also the director of the board. This I would like to say at the beginning of my reply, but we do know that the growing influence of computer technology on daily life will require action on the part of the government over what is discussed here if we are to ensure that the Icelandic will be eligible for computer and communicable communications. It is the opinion of those who know that evolution will pose a real danger to them. At the same time, there is a great opportunity for an Icelandic community if the language can be used fully in dealing with intelligent devices of various kinds. Already a meeting point has been established on the basis of a government agreement between government, employment, and educational community on how to carry out this assignment in the coming years. It is necessary to identify and organize all to-dos, schedule them, and estimate the cost that will fall. When I say on the basis of government release, I refer to the approval of the government's funds to provide funding so that a temporary project manager can be hired, who will see to it that in cooperation with the members I mentioned earlier, i.e. job and public life will be able to take action in an orderly way. They are expected to be completed within six months of the task manager's appointment, and I understand that it is within a very short time that the manager may expect to start his work. The estimated cost of priming is up to 10 million. 5 million. K. is paid for by the economy and 5 billion. K. ... whogoestothis project comes from the government's provision money, which I referred to earlier in my reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u58	V.E.G. President. I want to come up here because of this inquiry where I think it's really important that we start thinking about this. Today, there are young children, e.g. has improved in English at the beginning or in the early years of their schooling. This is mainly because they use the Internet more, play games, watch videos there, read some guidelines they need to follow to use the devices. Of course, it trains certain skills and language skills and the ability to communicate. But we must be careful that they do not lose something and suffer loss. So I am very happy to hear that at least the minister gives good answers about the next steps as well as the time before the mission will be fully started.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u59	A respectable president. You can't discuss this very detailed in a minute, but fine. I just want to reiterate what I've said so many times here in a pita, I don't think Icelandic will survive in a free competition. I think it takes a lot of government money and quite a lot of it so we can hold on to the Icelandic language for an extended period of time. It is simple: The English is less expensive. It's almost free. Of course, computer technology and technology in general always develop with emphasis on English. English is a relatively suitable language for computer processing. The Icelandic language is a very unfortunate language for computer processing. So the project is very big, very important, and I think it needs to be longer. In these seconds, I'm going to propose, to consider, if there shouldn't be an institution to work on these developments, because there is no progress there. Of course, I think 30 million are more than 25 million, but that is far from enough. I emphasize that there must be a budget for this kind of project in the long term.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u60	A respectable president. This matter needs to be discussed, and there is good reason to thank for it. Icelandic is globally valuable. It is a language in danger of extinction, spoken by just 300 thousand people. It is spoken almost in the original form, very little change from the original site. We can read ourselves into the understanding of our ancient literature and the Code of the Earth and the stories of Iceland that come from literature. So maintaining the matter is not just some unusual matter. The tongue involves the story of speech. It involves the development of an Icelandic language. If we lose our language, we lose our culture. So we must not lose our sense of urgency. There is no chance that if we just look out for ourselves, the matter will drown in a digital world. And that's what we're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u61	Mr. President. In most areas of science, we throw forward as rapidly as are those who are in a position to create opportunities to talk to machines. In a few years, most appliances will have voice - controlled computers. V.E.G. Whatever he becomes, a minister of education can go to the store and buy a household appliance that he can then converse with at home. The question is, What language will be the highest? The future minister of education talks to his household appliances? That's what we're talking about. This is where we're out of line and skin. It is possible that if nothing has to be done, it will be done, not the language used there, but the English. And it is likely that in a relatively few generations, the foundation that humans need to maintain the language may be lost. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said that it was impossible to control this peril except by a lot of money. V.E.G. A minister of education said that this was a serious danger. But we know how much it takes to avoid him. [[The president calls.]] It's been reported costing me. That's 1 up there. Millions. That's 100 million in ten years. Isn't Icelandic $1 billion worth?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u62	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers, and what. members of the body are involved in this discussion. But I have to say, I was disappointed with the highest answers. Minister because as I understand his answers, very little has happened on the case, very little happened on his watch. We're talking about 30 million. K. this year the amount of money in the 10-year schedule of the group that presented the report in December will be substantially higher. V.E.G. In December, a minister spoke in discussions about the budget bill that he expected some form of cooperation with the job life to support the project by means of financial contributions. What's going on in this case is that there was an approved budget for the project manager. That's what's coming up. There's nothing adequate but to the highest. Ministers provide a time - set plan that is in line with what the group suggested, a ten - year schedule to protect the English language from what otherwise is inevitable. This was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson that the English language does not pay off the norms of economic growth, expenses, and government success. She needs official support, needs a solidarity at the General Assembly, needs donations from a government fund, she is in desperate need of that donations. The same applies to the English language, as mentioned here by climate change, when it is too late, it is too late.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u63	A respectable president. I agree with the thanks this has brought to us. Parliamentaries for participation in the discussion. I'd like to say first, that I actually feel that the matter is going on because we've established this team of colleagues I've spoken of as having to do, i.e. ... professionallyandthekingoftheking state. This group will oversee the work of the person who will work for the next two months, for the next six months, to plan this precisely so that we will have a common plan between the state and the business of what we intend to do. The reason for this is because it is not merely gentle and dangerous. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson mentioned earlier, there's also an opportunity for an Icelandic job to have us succeed in this. Just as there is hope and danger if we fail to talk to the appliances we buy, you can imagine what happens when our cars get driven by orders, etc. Then people will see in their hands how important it is only as a precaution for us to do this. But the key is to protect our language, our culture, and so on. That, of course, is what this is all about. We've been told that they want to do this, that they want to be with us because they see opportunities too. They want to grab and participate. That's why I don't agree with what you think. A senator and a advocate who said that nothing is going on. In fact, I think it's remarkable and interesting that professional life and the state are part of the task of defending Icelandic. I don't know that it was done this way before. I consider this evidence that professional life takes this seriously and shows understanding that our foundation is exactly the language. I think it's commendable that it's time to do business, and I want to thank my career for this interest. I expect within six months, when the staff has completed their work with the manager who will operate there, we will receive a work programme that is our common plan to respond. [[The president calls.]] I have high hopes that on the basis of that plan, it will be possible to react firmly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u64	A respectable president. The campaign ◯ We now pay the arts, but its purpose is to promote the realm of the arts and improve the quality and status of artists. Don't make it. It is a special position of art, that artists with experience and expertise in their field simply do not get paid for their efforts. It is normal for artists to be appreciated as do other artists. This commission directs the management of the state of governments and other people who should pay for this special position. The central theme of this campaign is a contract for artists'participation and contributions to the show. The articles that now appear on the SIM website provide the basis for such an agreement. The Icelandic art Union was particularly looking to a Swedish contract. The Swedish government signed a pact to artists in Sweden 2009, which has served as a model for a comparable agreement in Norway and also in Denmark. A contract is now being made in Finland and Austria, with this Swedish model. The European Arts Management Board has particularly supported this initiative by providing these guidelines for a contract and wants museums and artists to cooperate with this model. We know that this is a complex thing for museums in Iceland who, of course, need to run themselves, and there we would be talking about an increase in costs, and that's why strings must be put together with all the artists, artists, museums, and others who live and move in everyday art, as it were, and so must be met by a common concert among those who work in this field. That's why I want to ask the highest. A minister of his vision at this particular campaign of the Union of Icelandic art under the heading ◯ We are cities of artists in accordance with the position in the countries around us that encourages artists to be paid for their jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for starting this discussion. As regards the vision, we can relate to and quote Luke 10:1. That's where it says, as I know it. A senator knows: The worker is worthy of his salary. I think we all agree, and will no one object that this sentence applies to artists like everyone else. I don't think there's any question as to the importance of the distribution of the artists in the country, and people in general agree on that at the General Assembly. When it comes to the goals we want to set for ourselves by supporting the arts in general, we are, of course, investing in one of the fundamental elements of society. This investment is of utmost importance to us. I'm gonna let myself talk in general about what I'm wondering about because the senator called for a vision. Here are both formal and economic circumstances that I would like to think up with. A senator and his discussion in order to lead us toward some solution in these matters. In view of financial issues, I believe that this may be done in accordance with the current 2015 exhibitions, the country's art collections would need to pay some 90 million dollars for artists. K. each year if the artists are paid according to their existing ideas as a matter of course. A senator spoke. So there should be some picture of a financial frame. Then the question arises: Should it be a clear responsibility for the government to provide such funds, including some of them? in view of the fact that most of the relevant collections are owned by a local partner or by private property organisations. Now there are funding for art in budgets nearly 700 million. K. Then the question comes to mind: Imagine that the Council, which has the legal authority, would be prepared to increase financial support to arts by some 90◯100 million. K. every year for this purpose? That's the point here. And further, in view of the question: Should this be given to the local community, which owns museums or automation institutions? It needs to be discussed. The question arises: What should be the legal form of these funds? Shall pass through the current fund, e.g. A treasure fund or a art fund, or a new form of funds should be set up for this purpose? They need to take a stand on this matter. They also need to decide who should be involved with the other government funds for arts, e.g. Through art fund and employment fund. Should it be possible for the same artists to be able to enjoy projects from the art fund, salary and pay from museums for reveries based on new contracts? People should be paid for their jobs, we all agree on that, but these are the viewpoints that arise and search. So we need to discuss them here so that we can take a final stand on this matter. I know these matters well, I've had a meeting with some people who've been dealing with them, and my attention has been brought to this. We've been over this within my department. There's a clear problem. Naturally, there is a requirement for a person to be paid for his work. The views I tore up earlier are more to open up a discussion to seek out that we will continue to develop it in order to take our final stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u66	President. Thank you very much. Ministers of answers that may have been more marked by new questions and questions. I agree with that with the highest. Minister for the conversation to take place. He agrees with me that artists should be paid for their work as well as for others, but that is not the way things are being done today. V.E.G. There's a minister here for formal and financial reasons, but I'm asking the highest degree. Minister who is the political leader of this group of paintings, i.e. The cultural issues of the arts: What does he think he should do? What does he think is good and worthwhile goals? He asks: Do we want to increase our contribution to the arts of the government budget by some 90 to 1,100 million each year? What's the bottom line? A minister of that? How does the Minister feel this should be done, i.e. with the share of the state, of the community, of private property, etc.? Most of all, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how to win this conversation. MIM has now presented this milestone to the contract and to the highest degree. Secretary says the conversation needs to take place, and I'm putting this up with a question here at the General. I'm asking the highest. A minister of how he can see that this work will continue to be done so that waste can be done. Right at the end, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may be expected to be in the management of an art board and the management of an art decoration fund that would have had to be arranged for about a month ago. There is a need to complete this because there are certain tasks that both funds need to resolve but cannot do while the government is not in operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u67	A respectable president. I referred to it in my answer earlier that there is a situation where a number of people are owned by local government. When it comes to paying, it is more difficult for the State to interfere. I want to continue talking to you about receiving a letter from the SIM saying that the idea is to shape proposals for artists who are not to be shown in museums in Iceland. I would like to mention that there are two types of payment involved, one as well as the other, a pay for artist work in the preparation and implementation of exhibitions. The subject is particularly concerned with the ideas of specific features for the showcase that, as far as I know, is new in the implementation of Icelandic art shows, but as it turned out, The starter is the arrangement set up in several countries, Sweden, Norway, and Denmark. It is likely for us to take a good look at it. In terms of pay contracts, it is normal to be paid for artist work in museums and in museums. Hv. A senator specifically called for my opinion. I think it's perfectly obvious, but it's not the education and cultural profession to negotiate pay. It is always the custody of the Ministry of Economics to handle pay contracts on behalf of the state in such agreements by the state. In the case of contracts that are supposed to be some kind of creative, or a basis for artists'contracts with all museums in Iceland, I believe the Ministry is hardly authorized to make such a deal for others. We need to keep in mind that we can cruelly bind those who do not hear under our administration. All of this is an opinion that needs to be discussed, but I restate that I believe that artists should be paid for their work. I believe that must be the point of clearance in whatever way they want to approach it. [[The president calls.]] Does this mean that we take more money out of the financial budget or that our communities make more money out of their funds? Whatever the case, at least have a basic view that pays for the work done. Then you have to think about the total amount of money to cover this art piece, etc. There is another discussion - but to pay for the work done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u68	Mr. President. I have a question for the highest level. Secretary of education and culture for the work of the World Committee. According to the data I have been trying to study on the world web, a new World Committee has not been established since 2013. The World Memorial Committee is not available for daily discussions in this hall, but in 1995 Iceland became a member of the 1972 UNESCO Convention on the Protection of World Culture and Nature. In that contract, Member States combine to collaborate national treaties, protect the world's culture, and resist the destruction of memory. Hv. Congress officials have noticed how powerful the UNESCO fight is now under way against the destruction of mines by the ISIS or the Daesh. UNESCO has been responsible for the discussion, pointing to the terrible destruction of that organization. In Iceland, this case has been under a more positive view. This has been done for years, and since 1995 there have been world - service committees. The last one was assigned in 2009. There was a national monument, head of archeological protection, representative of Iceland's Natural History Institute and then representatives of the Environment Ministry and Education and Culture Ministry. That command came out 2013, but earlier, the World Committees of 20053/42007 and 2007◯2009 had been carried out, with the exception of a meeting group for the follow-up of the UNESCO contract that we became members of in 1995. Previously, such a meeting group was active. The role of the Committee is to work on the follow-up of the global Memorial Convention on behalf of the government and the Ministry of Education and Culture, prepare the names of Icelandic positions on the World Memorial, and provide a summary of the potential memories that will be considered on the part of Iceland, which will be handed over to the Paris World Memorial Committee office. During the last term, the representatives of nationalmins and nature protection were like me. That's what I'm asking myself. Minister: Has a new committee been appointed? If it hasn't been planned, then how does it feel to follow up on the UNESCO World Memorial Convention? We've seen a lot of minas in Iceland go to this great list. It comes with great responsibility but also with great respect. These are places that, for example, are in the field of nature. We also have our manuscripts, our cultural figure on a list that deals with intangible cultural resources. I'd like to ask the highest. To this matter, Minister: How is the follow-up being done? Is it a time to appoint a New World Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u69	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? Senator, for the discussion. I would like to remind you initially that Iceland's World Committee is not a legal committee and therefore is not employed by law or by law. It was originally a group on the UNESCO Treaty from 1972 on the world cultural and natural heritage, and has the primary role of being the basis of a consultation on the world mines in this country and being the Ministry of Education and Culture for consultation with the implementation of the UNESCO World Memorial Convention. The Committee developed an agreement between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Environment when the contract was confirmed in 1995 to have a close discussion of the follow-up of the World Memorial Convention. The original term was changed at its time to the Iceland World Committee for economic reasons, since the name was very uncomfortable, especially in foreign relations. In contrast, the role of the committee did not change anything. In 2013 it was decided to increase the number of members of the Committee's Committee members, since extra consultations with rural society are needed in the future in relation to work with the contract and new appointments. We've been calling for some claims, I can tell you what. A senator, from the Union of Icelandic rural society, i.e. to get an appointment from them into the working group. Similarly, representatives of the two world places will remain on the committee as well as on the behalf of the UNESCO Committee. I don't think there's anything to worry about. The Ministry of Education and Culture has always cared for the follow-up of the World Memorial Convention in close collaboration with the Environment and Resource Ministry, whether the World Committee has been active or not. All the decisions made by the World Memorial Committee have been worked by those employees responsible for the agreement and their contacts to the UNESCO Home Office, called ◯focal Points, so the job goes through the staff of the consultants. I want to use this opportunity to draw attention to things that were on the news the other day. A senator mentioned only the immaterial aspects of the world. I remind you that we recently made a list of what is called the World's Memory on the part of us Icelanders, including Passiusima, the personal manuscript of Hallgrímur, the son of Pétursson, the financial figure of 1703 and so on. There were one four appointments on that list and this underscores the importance of these cases. But I would like to reiterate that this has been done on the part of the Ministry and is very closely monitored by the employees who have decades of knowledge in this field. So they have been very comfortable with these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u70	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. As I understand the case, the agreement is followed by the personnel of the Education and Culture Ministry and the Environmental and Resource Ministry, as well as the representatives of the European Union, I thought it was the highest. Ministers say, and the places which have been appointed. Witnessing to the highest degree. Ministers until, on the other hand, those in the country who represent the Surts Islands and the Þingvala. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to confirm my understanding. V.E.G. A minister did not prevent the appointment of a new committee. At least I understand the best part. Ministers, in view of the fact that the Committee has been serving until now, or during the last term, representing the national Memorial, which has now been transferred from the Ministry of Education and Culture to the Ministry of Presidency. Of course, the world mine is still under the Ministry of Education and Culture. However, they served as representatives of the National Museum of Iceland and the Minning Institute, both under the Ministry of Presidency. Hence, it is only natural to do so. In view of the fact that these institutions have left the highest level, the Minister of Education and Culture, who takes the contract, would like to have a hand in the balance of the contract. Minister. He knows how I feel about the attempt to transfer them to the Ministry of Presidency, and I've never understood the evidence to support it. Could it be that they played in that a new World Committee has not been established? Don't you think they need to be settled? Although I have full confidence in the top staff. The Minister of Education and Culture, and know that there is a great knowledge there is in my mind that there is a loss in not having this committee, which is certainly not legal, and it is not legal that it must be represented by these specific institutions, which I mentioned, can be done in other ways and has been done in other ways. But if there is not a specific mail or field, we can say, follow-up. [[The president calls.]] I want a vision of the highest. It belongs to a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u71	A respectable president. The important thing is, like, what's wrong. A senator noted that this is not a legal committee. What really matters is that these tasks are handled carefully, that they are in good condition, and that there are qualified individuals and professionals who pay attention to these matters. We agree on that, me and what. A senator who has had that experience after being the highest. Minister of this Ministry, there are people we trust 100% in on these projects. In 2013 the decision was made to increase the number of members of the committee. That's what I was referring to. But I don't think there's anything against the idea that this committee is going to be set up. I'd just like to reiterate that these matters have been handled very strongly and seriously and that's where our most skilled experts are. The concept is that there is an agreement on consultation and follow-up between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Environment when a contract was established in 1995. That's what matters here. Whether it is with such a committee, which is not legal - it may be sobering to consider why it is not legal - or whether it is called together or not at the level of the committee, whether it is called together or not, or whether the employees of the management board are employed. Ministers are coming to see me not thinking of the main issue, but we need to take good care of these matters, and we keep an eye on them, for I did not hear that there were any such problems. A senator would be referring rather than simply asking about the consequences of this committee. I don't think there's anything against the reinstatement. We've got an appointment on the committee and they're on the move. We may consider the role of the committee a little more carefully before we begin sending out some special letter of command on its behalf, but we will consider the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u72	Mr. President. It's been three weeks since I made this inquiry, in itself given reasons where the study in this matter, the Outfit Department, might not be a reality. I felt sorry for that, and the local people we met in a district week were concerned about the situation. Then I understand that some water slipped to the sea and the locals met with a minister, but I would like to discuss this at the highest level. Minister. There are a few things, including. one thing I would like to criticize and ask a minister: Is there any more examples of such slowness? A letter is sent after a number of conversations from Ley's school to take on this assignment. Formal address is sent on November 20, 2015. An answer comes from the Ministry, rather short, I have to say, February 4 of this year and that I know it's an unacceptable waiting time in the official administration, so I'll begin to discuss it. I really hope that's not common in the Ministry. A lot has been discussed, and I don't have to tell a minister how important this is. It was the decision of the legislature board to support this matter because it had been talked about for a considerable period of time that this high school department in the arms became a reality. Apparently, the minister himself had not seen fit to deposit this into the budget, and as a result, a financial committee did so. Nevertheless, the headmaster of the Lyla believes that 1 million people are needed for the department to succeed, or have the same contribution as any other department. I'd like to ask the secretary if he agrees. The joyous news has already been received that four students have suggested that they plan to attend there, and more are being carried out. As a minister knows, and we've had a conversation about this more than just 10 graders. It is possible that more older students will use it. Now I've heard that this business has been guaranteed for two years, for the next year of school, and for the next year. I'm asking a minister if it's true, so those in charge of this department can be sure that this is not just something that we're about to start in the fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. But in May 2014, the Ministry of Education and Culture told the Ministry of Education to support the ideas of the local high school opening of high school and was expected to be sponsors. As there was no interest among students in this arrangement, the Ministry understood that this idea had fallen away. I noticed why. The senator did not say this on the basis of his inquiry. Rather, he somehow made it appear that it had been all against the will of what is being said here. Far from it. Then, as the locals continue to develop an interest in the Lullar High Schools becoming the backdoor high school of the arms, and it's true that we received a letter from the schoolmaster at the end of November 2015 asking permission to respond to the request of arms lovers. Shortly thereafter, reports were received that a financial committee approved 5 billion. K. contributes to this specific task. This brings up the situation - and there was a reason for the Ministry to claim that financial contributions were only discussed until one year. I've had conversations with those who come into this situation, and we've made that decision because I support this idea. That's why we recommended it at the beginning, a respectable president, that we get this thing to the point of making a two - year deal and that we take it to see how it worked, if there was a basis for it, what it would be like to be in the praxis. It's all the will within my department and with me that we do it this way, and we put it to the test, and I'm redirecting to the letter we sent back in May 2014 where we supported these ideas. It's just how it went with the ones that made it appear that there was no basis for this department. We do not know how to join students in the future. We know the present group, the four students who were. A senator mentioned, but he needs to see who it will be or who it will be the following year. That's why it's a test project, and at least we're about to start. Of course, it contains a promise that if we believe that we will succeed in that course, we will not begin the attempt to do anything thereafter. Then, of course, we will continue, that is our will. Hv. A senator asks how the department's activities will be affected by the number of students in the Theocratic Ministry School at Lysa. We do not know exactly what it will be when it is fulfilled. We do not know the number of students that will be exposed to the next fall of that school, but we do know of the students here. They need to be looked to, and the experiment, of course, turns to it. A respectable president. That's how this case came about, as I've traced it here. We'd love to try this. We'd like to achieve those results. It is important to be able to offer that service. I also want to take this opportunity to thank them. Congress officials who have been involved and are interested in this matter. I believe there is a very successful solution in this matter, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u74	V.E.G. President. Thank you for bringing up the important matter here and thanking the minister for his excellent authority and share in bringing it up. This is where we've started education on the weapons market, which we've been planning for a long time. Behind this story is a long, long process that many have gone to and worked at at all levels. Today, the possibility that their children can pursue a home education is an enormously important source of pleasure. We know what it's like to have to send our children away at the age of 15. Not everyone is ready to do that, but this way and being able to invite older people who even will learn to come in there is a great deal of joy. The newest weapons figures are that five students are ready to participate in this project. Congratulations, Weapons Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u75	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much for making the final decision for this development project for two years. I also stress that at the same time, it is very important for the locals of the arms to prepare well for this project, and this will result in the immediate acceptance of students in each of the 10th grade who make the most of their decision to attend school in this higher school. Whether this project will be continued or not depends on whether it will be carried out. As we know, it takes a minimum number to stay out of a department like this. I trust that weapons will ensure that this will be a future project.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u76	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and for the members of Congress for participating in this discussion. I agree that it is important that students attend in this service so that it becomes permanent. The reason I didn't follow the story was that I didn't feel that I could mention the High School of Education at the Egls, that is, not a habit, but that students who are armed with weapons go to Egls, so I never understood these ideologies, but it certainly happened and stepped the matter. On the other hand, only a six-year allowance is guaranteed, not a whole year, just the head tooth is inside to be said. I want to keep it, too, because it's the best. A minister mentioned the student values, that we, of course, need to secure the student's figure. It's true that we don't know who he'll be, either at Ley's school or at the next fall, because the student values have come later, of course, to make sure the numbers are secure. I'd like to ask a little bit of questions on the foundation like other departments have got. All events such as the way this has been done have been followed, and I hear that the locals are ready to contribute for the time being. I ask if a minister plans to secure something for them, however, at that cost. They need to provide the situation and other things in the first place, as we know each other. I agree with what's been said here. It's great to have this finally come true. I know this very well, since I come from a community that spent a very long time with such a department before the University of High School in the Grinch. How important it is to have students at home and in the community as part of its consumers, as well as for families! These are the questions I raise to the highest. Minister. I did not intend to say that he would not have shown this interest, but there were no financial contributions this year, that is, I meant, not until the legal committee suggested it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u77	A respectable president. I think we can all be very happy and accept the fact that this arrangement has come, i.e. that this experiment project has been adopted, and then it's just seeing how the wind unfolds. I'd like to say one thing, though, it's important to bear in mind that it's good and important to be able to offer up the ministry; it must also be that way for the young ones involved in this issue not to experience it so that there's too much pressure on them to stay. Some kids are suitable for going somewhere else, and some kids can be good at allowing their homes and going to school elsewhere. They may be, and they should not be put too much pressure on them, but it is essential that this option exists so that children can also choose to stay with their parents and study at this level in the safety of living with their parents. Both aspects need to be in place, both the possibility of attending other studies as well as of attending at home. I feel like I need to make this clear. I hope this is going well. I think it's really important. We've seen that this is the kind of mission where we've started them. There are some of these projects going on in other parts of the country where there are small divisions. Of course, the opportunities for new communication and communication should be used to do this. The means to use such parishes are to be used. We were, of course, thinking about this in 2014 when we were discussing the offer of weapons, not at Egls, but at the Department of Egls and the East Academy. The thought was that this study would be offered. That's what this is all about. Now we have a two-year experiment, and then we see how that will turn out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u78	A respectable president. I want to direct you to the highest level. Health Minister for quality monitoring of nursing homes in Iceland Three joints have the request: 1st How do we monitor the services of nursing homes in our country? 2. What quality control and monitoring procedures are performed when there is suspicion or evidence of neglect or poor treatment of the elderly? 3. In recent years, reports of nursing procedures have led to public intervention, e.g. The governor or the Ministry? The reason for this threefold query is multiple. The economic situation of a nursing home in the country is so bad that those who know have spoken about a medical emergency. This includes the enterprise's organisation in welfare services, which recently held an emergency meeting for the position. Last year's review of the Kingdom News shows that they already needed a billion people from the state to get together in the nursing business and that the situation has continued to worsen. It is said that this year's 1.5 billion - billion - a - year period is desperately missing. The surgeon's assessment of health care facilities during the past few years has provided information on quality issues and the care of nursing staff. There is also concern that the number of these surveys of surgeons on nursing procedures has decreased dramatically in recent years. They were 16 in 2012 but, for example, were just one in 2014 and three last year. Then, in the media and elsewhere in the public discussion, very serious evidence of worsening services and even the ill - equipped care of the elderly in certain nursing homes has appeared to be confined to the capital area. I don't want to argue that in general and generally ill - willed by older people in the nursing homes of the country. It's best to make it clear. Yet, the clues that have been presented raise anxiety and are also unattainable. That's what I want to talk to the highest. He or she will be brought in by a health minister and will take care of how the surveillance is, in effect, being carried out by the operation. We know that the surgeon general is the one who makes the intermissions. But how is the response to official indications, such as when problems are presented with professional design, funds, and so forth?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. Þorvarðardóttir The Hysterfjaflándóttir quere. There are three questions. First, ask: How is nursing care involved? Law No. Four/1/2007, regarding surgeons and public health, is decreed that a surgeon's office should monitor the health quality of the country. As mentioned in the case of what? In recent years the office has made an assessment of a procedure in nearly every nursing home in the country. The number of tasks is simply followed by a review made with the head of a nursing home and asked to send specific information to the office before the assessment visit. In addition, information on the home exists by the surgeon general's office. These include quality, information about incidents, complaints, and tips, and so forth. The assessment visit itself is followed by a check list followed by the review. All of this follow-up is then performed after six months. At times, the office has revealed that there is something that might be improved. Therefore, the follow-up is important, which should be considered as to whether improvements have been made to the analysis performed. Here, too, it is important to mention and note that the internal supervision of each institution with the quality of the service must always be of utmost importance and that external monitoring does not replace it. In particular, I would like to mention that at the nursing home, the so-called RAI is being done in a regular way to assess the needs and health of the population. The Commission receives information from this assessment in databases and quality-to-dates and for years the staff of nursing staff in individual nursing homes have also been able to monitor quality levels in the home of the RAI assessment. The surgeon general also regularly examines complaints or tips for services in nursing homes, evaluating whether they will provide a basis for monitoring for the quality and safety of the service. This decision is made by a multidisciplinary team on the issues and complaints. In surveillance analysis, it is established that the service could be better and that the office would follow a comment if the evidence cannot be confirmed. If possible, a surveillance case is followed by a surgeon's office, if this has required improvement or a new procedure. The second question is: What procedures are carried out in quality control and monitoring procedures when there is suspicion or evidence of neglect or ill treatment for the elderly? It part explains in what I have in the above. But the office makes suggestions for those in charge and follows them. We also know from the findings of the surgeon general's office that the majority of the nursing homes have protocols and guidelines in case of suspicion of neglect or violence toward members of the household. Third, ask if during the past ten years we know that the evaluation has led to action on the part of the government, such as the governor or the Ministry. It is therefore to answer that the surgeon's office is extensive and is conducting a planned patrol but also to react to indications from the population, partners, employees, and other surveillance agents, such as health care and burn control that have been sent to the office indications. Notes of the surgeon's office can protect both the quality and the safety of the ministry, such as the number of employees and their knowledge, the equipment of inhabitants, such as food, room position, privacy, or the possibility of spending time with a family or sharing in extramarital life. Such comments are especially seen in younger nursing patients. In some cases, if not all of the facilities are built in one building, tools, household equipment, and access, such as between hills, the statements by the surgeon. In most cases, nurses have responded well to the comments and indications of a surgeon's office, but their office also guides homes and offers counseling. However, if homes fail to respond adequately to the surgeon's comments, the office will draw attention to the Ministry of Health and will then be determined on what action to take and respond accordingly. The measures taken on behalf of the Ministry of Health are specifically instructed to correct what is bad in the operation, in equipment, or in the work of an institution. [[The president calls.]] There have also been some measures taken to reduce the number of nurses in your home, and in some cases a small amount of your home has been required not to be used.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u80	A respectable president. It was so nice to hear that review. However, it seems clear from the evaluations made by the surgeon in nursing homes that in some cases, for example, there has been a lack of professional labour in nursing homes. It seems quite clear to me, in view of the discussion, especially now, that the most serious issue now is the lack of money on the nursing home business. What's the big deal? So, then, a minister in that regard? It is said that this time 1.5 billion are needed for it to survive. What's the big deal? A minister of that? Does he see any other way, or does he have a plan for making up for the problems that have been repeatedly shown in the reports and reports that include difficulties in working with professional workers? In view of recent information regarding child care concerns, I want to see the minister for a little more details as to whether he does not feel it is necessary to re-supply the quality and services of the nursing homes. There must be some concern that at the same time as there is evidence that there is going back to professional activity, we also see fewer assessments than we have been. They were 16 years ago, but only three of them last year. That may be a reason for going into total trouble. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to have the Minister answer to that further.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u81	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's problem today is that there is a lack of money in the operation and operation of a nursing home. There is good reason to take seriously the warning words that have been used by the head of the nursing homes. I've had discussions with the management of an enterprise in welfare services, which has been prominent in this discussion, as well as with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs on the possible benefits in this regard, as this is urgent. This is obvious based on the report made by the Government Accounting in a nursing home in 2013. Of 43 nursing homes, only 13 were expelled on the right side of zero, and things did not improve from that time, either in 2013 or in 2014, that is clear. Thus, this foundation needs to be added, whether it is 1 billion, 1.5 billion, or 2 billion. I don't have any information about it. I've only heard that number from company leaders. Another factor is the debt of pension, especially those on the farms for nursing homes they have run. There is work to be done and to complete the contracts made. A contract is being made with an independent and functional nursing home or with their operators. The rural communities have been complaining very much about these factors, and I know that men have been trying to get back into the events that ended up in 2014, 2015, if I remember correctly. Let me take a closer look at that information. A senator has the number of assessments made by the surgeon in nursing homes. I don't know the academic background, but I think it's easy to discuss it with the surgeon's office whether it can be done in any other way than we can see at their numbers. A senator mentions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u82	V.E.G. President. In the smaller, fragile areas of the country, inhabitants will have to live in a limited amount of service. In some cases it may be acceptable to residents, even though they are not to need it solely because of their choice of living, but in other cases it is completely unacceptable, including health care. There is an example in the country where there is a lack of opening time for pharmacists, e.g. does not open all active days or only open for a few hours each day, and examples ranging from two to four hours open. Outside of this, the inhabitants may need the ministry as a means to be understood. That's why I want to ask the highest. HCPs whether there is a potential for free sale of certain non-prescription drugs, such as cough syrup, analgesic or antipyretics, etc. What are the rules for pharmaceuticals in the stock market, and what is the difference between them and prescription regulations? How many pharmacists are there in the country, and how many of them don't have a standard opening time? Have drug shipments to pharmacy ever been delayed by more than 24 hours in the country? Can those who live a long way from a pharmacy, a rural town, get the end of the world? Have other options been considered to aim for increased pharmaceutical services in smaller, fractured areas? These speculations include Sources of smaller settlements defined as fracture prevention and have been studying the potential for various factors to promote the settlement and set the service levels there at least a similar place to service in larger urban areas. I would really like to direct these questions to the minister with the hope that he will be able to give a clearer picture of this arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir these questions I intend to go through, that's seven. First of all, the possibility of a free sale of certain medicines in a rural area, such as analgesics or anti-inflammatory medicines, cough syrup, and so forth is asked. The question is, Is there a possibility of selling certain drugs in a rural area outside the pharmacy, and the answer is no? According to the law, it is only allowed in the pharmacy and drug camps. When asked about the rules for the goods and the differences between the products and the prescription requirements for prescribing, the product should be dispensed only and returned to the physician's prescription. The solution can be delivered and dispensed without the prescription being prescribed. A decision on whether to conduct a prescription or not is made by the National Competent Authority in relation to the registration of the medicinal product in the Member State. Then it is permitted according to the 2nd issue. 20. Pharmacopoeia to sell certain products, i.e. The smallest pack and lowest strength of nicotinic or fluoride extravasation. There are a total of 64 prescription stores in this country, which adds up to four companies of drug sales based on a warrant. This will include 30 prescriptions from the above pharmacy. This is so that in the city of Reykjavík, there are 26 units of medicine, 17 units of medicine in the southwestern district, six prescriptions and nine prescriptions, and ten different prescriptions and 13 branches, and nine different units in the South American country. There are 56 pharmacists who have either a longer or a shorter opening period than between hours. 9 and 18 of these 64. When asked if drug shipments to a pharmacy were delayed by more than 24 hours ago, we sought information from the Marketing Authorisation Holder on the answer to this question because the Marketing Authorisation Holder has been monitored. The marketing authorisation holder did not have information on such delays or delays. It is also asked if people who live far away from their pharmacists can receive the medicines home. It is permitted to attend a post office with a prescription and the post office of the products included in the Regulation No 37/2010: 1065/2008. In addition, many prescriptions offer the end of the world that is carried out on their own. Finally, the problem arose. A senator on the possibility of increasing treatment-related drug services. In a drug convention that I recently introduced, and I plan to set up for the Council as a synonym, the following two emphasis points are found: 1st The need to improve bioavailability of medicinal products in the country should be improved, especially in the smallest places where services are limited. New pharmaceutical technologies need to be reviewed on drug sales in the country. 2. You will be reviewed in the laws and regulations for the sale of medicinal products, particularly in the country, and will consider whether it is desirable to sell certain products in general shops. A bill to a new drug layer, which will also be submitted shortly before the Council, will take into account this particular policy, so that provided that there is a control point, we should be able to see within a relatively short period of time a marked change or a possibility to change the state of life. There's a senator calling for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u84	President. I want to celebrate the last words. Ministers that there should be a review of arrangements and a review of the rules for sales of free goods, especially in the country. I'd like to allow myself, more dignified President, to think that it would be safe to allow sales of drugs other than nicotine and fluoride products in small packages other than the pharmacy. Of course, pharmacists don't want it, and they don't want it because they want people who need to buy a headache pill to come to their pharmacy and maybe buy a treat on the way or something, I don't know. So I'd really like to encourage the Minister for this, especially natural, for the scattered settlements in which it is difficult to get to the pharmacy, but more like, a respectable president, to urban areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u85	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the answers and the answers. A senator for taking part in the discussion. This is exactly what I have wondered about this discussion, the basis for not allowing the sale of nonprescription drugs in smaller packages outside the pharmacy or branch office that take over medicine. I wondered, therefore, since pharmacists are closed over weekends whether to have a pack of the recommended oral dose for sale in stores, since people do not choose when they will get sick, the illness may have appeared on Friday after a pharmacy closes, and then people have to wait until the weekend. Then I'd like to ask the secretary a little bit about the lack of information on drug delivery. Does a minister mean, then, that there has been no delay or that the information does not exist and is not recorded? I want to thank you very much. The minister's emphasis was in his words when he instituted a bill for new pharmaceuticals, and it's a pleasure to be taken into account in the law where this call has come from smaller, fragile settlements. It is hoped that they will obtain some solution in these matters and will not sit back on the horse as simple as having the ability to get to the pharmacy and arrange medicines that may be necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u86	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. It was in my mind that it was completely time to revise and implement long-term pharmaceutical policies as well as to revise the dosages. They are a child of their time, and there is good reason to simply adapt them to the reality we live in today's world. Part of the necessary changes that must take place are reflected in the two words of speech. Councilmen here have discussed the matter. We must be able to adapt the principle of today's reality as it does to people instead of creating barriers to the availability of necessary products. That's the main project I think we need to try to work together. I expect the bill that will soon appear of the new drug law to include these factors, and the council will welcome it, making changes in a greater level of freedom or in the direction of a better rule, if necessary. I consider this to be a necessary job, and I look forward to seeing how the council handles that bill. For asking why. María Sigmundsdóttir's Sigmundsdóttir about the review of the delay or delays in deliverys, I don't have any information about it. I don't know if any delays occurred, for the simple reason that the Institute of Medicine did not have any information about this. That's why my answer sounded.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u87	A respectable president. At 143th, I proposed a written inquiry to the Supreme Court. Healthcare minister for the beauty and plastic surgery of the female genitals. In answer to the highest. A minister noted that the surgeon's office did not provide information on the number of procedures asked. The answer also stated that surgeons, including plastic surgeons, call in information every year from every independent expert in the country. The rate of professional information to the office has increased year by year, or they had increased year by year as well as the introduction of an electronic medical registry, which made it easier for the data-divided. More than 90% of experts submitted functional information for 2012. Cortologists were among the experts who had not submitted information to the office despite the induction and therefore had no information about the above procedures. The same rules apply to information given to surgeons and other healthcare professionals. By 8. track No. 41/2007, regarding surgeons and public health, general surgeons, and national health records, health problems, accidents, prescriptions, births and activities, and health - care results. That's what we're based on, then we're building our job. The provision also includes the duties of healthcare professionals to provide the surgeon with the information he or she needs in order to maintain a medical record. Then, on April 22, 2015, representatives from the surgeon general's office came to the General Health Committee to discuss prescriptions and drug use and professional physicians. I had the chance to attend that meeting. It stated, among other things, that it had been a failure to obtain sufficient information in behalf of the surveillance of some independently functioning specialists, such as psychiatrists and plastic surgeons, who have been exposed to personal protection. A respectable president. Of course, medical services are more often than not about sensitive information. But I find it hard to understand how plastic surgery, sometimes involving healthy tissue, can be more difficult to find than the treatment of disease. Is breast enlargement more sensitive than breast cancer leading to breast cancer? genital surgery more sensitive than vaginal surgery or the treatment of sexually transmitted disease? So I want to ask the highest. Health Minister to see if internally functioning psychiatrists and plastic surgeons have been established for the monitoring of the surgeon's office. Has the proportion of experts reporting work data increased since 2012? Have the information provided by plastic surgeons increased? How has the surgeon followed the legal requirements for information provided by independent medical personnel for monitoring? What means does a surgeon have to follow up information? Does a secretary of the situation consider it acceptable to qualified specialists?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sævarsdóttir Saevard's log. It'll direct me to some questions about expert work information. I'll try to answer as best prisoners can. First, regarding the proportion of specialist physicians who provide functional information, whether it has increased since 2012. No, it hasn't increased. In 2012, 92% of the doctors who submitted information or were in touch with a surgeon's office were divorced. In 2013 the proportion of responders was 87.3% and in 2014 the proportion was 85.5%. The understanding of information from plastic surgeons, when asked, is, according to the surgeon's office, only one plastic surgeon of nine active plastic surgeons who have submitted the requested functional information for 2012 and 2013. Third, ask how surgeons have followed the legal requirements for information provided by independent medical personnel for monitoring. For example, since 2010 surgeons have been calling for information on the uniquely acting social network. The surgeon has recommended improvements to physicians who have not been visited for information. Because of those who did not accept a surgeon's recommendation, the matter was sent to minister. What means does a surgeon have to follow up information? According to the Law on National Health, No. 41/2007, should be directed to the carer by a surgeon to consider that the health care provider does not meet the health-care criteria. The surgeon should inform a minister of the case if the operator does not have such a recommendation. In addition to these measures, surgeons, if health care professionals violate the health laws of the country, reprove or disembarment from their healthcare professional's license. Finally, it is asked if a minister should consider the position of specialist physicians in return to the work information acceptable. According to national health laws and surgeons, national health records, disease and accidents and prescriptions, birth and function and health benefits should be kept by the surgeon at national level. The purpose of the registry is to gain knowledge of health and health care, to monitor the ministry, and to use it in quality development programmes in health care and science studies. So the office in this regard is a very important role. At least here knows what it looks like. In his speech, a senator mentioned being meeting different interests, both important and worthwhile; one of the interests of the health - care system and the nation because the surgeon's office can meet its legal requirements; and in some cases the patient's interests and the confidential responsibilities of physicians toward their patients, who are supported by the law on medical records, No. 55/2009. This has been a long debate. I consider that the improved surgeon to collect and work information in the independent expert communication log is clear in the law of surgeons and public health, and therefore cannot be considered satisfactory that a proportion of specialist physicians, or up to 15%, do not submit to the relevant information. I know that surgeons are sharpening these rules, including changing forms so that doctors who start their commitments to return these information. There are some significant changes and more important things are expected in the field physician's work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u89	President. I find that plastic surgeons - especially plastic surgeons - do not understand the requested information to the surgeon. All this information is encrypted by the surgeon, so it will not be considered for the patient's name, Anna, Sigríður, or Pálína. Healthcare professionals are deeply concerned that women, especially young girls, are being taken into action. This can cause problems later in life. Cortologists refuse to inform us of the number of measures involved. I'm just gonna say it, Mr. Honorable President, that I think it's a scandal. [[The president calls.]] I'm hoping a minister will live by the fact that a surgeon seeks that men fulfill their obligation to provide this information. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. The minister of Kristján Þór Júlíusson answers and what. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir's daughter into the discussion. However, I feel very, very unhappy and completely unacceptable to hear that these data have been reduced. As a minister attributed it to the development and quality of health care, it is very important that we know what health care is being done. Despite the limitations of individual and nation's interests, in the end it can be the most important interests of these same individuals to the fact that the information exists and gives them back. Therefore, I'd like to be glad that a surgeon is working on sharpening the rules and clarity of the doctor's obligations in these materials. I'll ask these questions forward next year, and I'll be allowed to pay attention. Only back to why this information is important. Healthcare professionals, midwives, female and obstetricians have been concerned that there are some indications that the incidence of female genital surgery is increasing. Because of the long - term effects of such action on the quality of life in individuals, there are little known effects on pregnancy and parturition or throughout life. While the information is not available, it is difficult to determine whether there is any basis for action. Similarly, the need for such plastic surgery in children under 18 years of age is a concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-14-87.u91	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion and for the urgency of the case. senators who participated in it. I agree with the views expressed by both of them that it is not acceptable and that the surgeon general does not have a chance to have information about the aspects of health care that it calls for. Surely, all of us in this room can agree that this is a way we do not want to have at the meeting of the land surgeon's office with various aspects of health care. There must be a solution to this man who has lasted for a long time between certain groups of specialities and the surgeon's office on the work information, but it is quite clear that the patience of the competent authorities on these topics is not limitless. Because of a paraphrase. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, the afterlife with this thought at the surgeon's office, I welcome them with the compliments and also with the words. The perfunctory Anna Sævarsdóttir that she will continue to ask about these things, for holding up these topics is simply the best.
