ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u1	Borist has written a letter from the Department of Professional Road and Development that asks for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the question of robotics. 227 on social security, from Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's Daughter's Brynhi. A letter has also been received from the Environment and Resource Ministry, where request is made to provide a written answer for the requested request. 1038 on aircraft emissions, from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u2	Before starting the program, the president of the United States wants to call attention to the fact that today is 25 years, 25 years, then 25 years, and then a year. Senators Einar K. Guðfinnsson of God, 2th. Witchest. And the president of Allallis; and Asshur the son of Skarphéðinsson, four. Smoke. n., were elected to be a member of the General Assembly. It was during the entire election on April 20, 1991. However, Einar K. Guðfinnsson of God had several times served at the General Assembly as a deputy, for the first time in April 1980, i.e. 36 years ago. Twenty - five years is a long time in politics, and they are not many later members of the council. The President wishes for today's birthday children, as it were, to be congratulated on a long and successful political career. And in spite of their long careers, they're whiskers. Senators Guðfinnsson K. Chefnsson and Össur Skarphéðinsson -- as everybody knows - with the youngest here, at least To say the least.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u3	A respectable president. Since the reign of Sigurður the son of Jóhannsson, uncertainty has increased from day to day. When the government was introduced at a famous score, it was the highest. Financial and economic ministers, by permission of presidents: We plan to shorten the terms of one legion and to continue elections in the fall. I say again, we plan to shorten the terms of one legion and continue elections in the fall. V.E.G. The minister says to the reactor query: ▪ As we have seen, election campaigns will be announced in the fall. Date has not been fixed.◯ President. It's still not in the way and it's completely unacceptable. V.E.G. The prime minister announces the administrative stand for a meeting last week and then leaks list, some kind of priority list, out of the Board of Directors last night. The uncertainty and lack of trust are entirely at the command of the current government and must be at a loss for the highest ambitions. current new prime minister, Sigurður of Ingi Jonsson. President. I'm asking for the President's help and help in trying to get a shot at the Senate because this is totally unacceptable. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u4	President. I agree with what you're saying. A senator who spoke here before me. To all of us, it must be very important that we know what issue the government wants to stress that the council will be completed before it is chosen in the fall, they say, though the requirement is certainly, as it is known, that it will be chosen at once. When's the perfect day? What business are we going to finish? You can't sit here on committees or on meetings and pretend that nothing has happened. The senator's president said on the radio the day before yesterday, I think it was, that there was no doubt that the election would be chosen in the fall. We must have a requirement to know what day that will be, not just us, but the whole nation, because elections are not for us, a respectable president, an election is for the nation, so that they can choose a new assembly, because they don't trust it. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u5	Mr. President. I can join in with my new recruits. paritaprevir Acquisite Össur of Skarphéðinsson and chief. President, who was added here to our 1991 team. But I must agree that there is a somewhat remarkable situation that the government, which is six months old tomorrow--is not that correct, Mr. President? - As evidence that she would have to sit for a few more months to see that she had a few issues so important that she would have to finish her payment. But it is now two and a half months ago, and it is not a matter of question. In other words, they would find out what subjects were so important. It has taken two weeks, and the list has not yet appeared unless there is a leak in the media that is obviously out of the government camp, for no government post has been seen. The Council of Ministers now makes changes in the work programme. Twice, three times it has been attributed; days of committees have been replaced by convocation dates or vice versa. In other words, in view of the uncertainty that there is a government that hasn't been able to get over what it wants or what it wants. [[The president calls.]] She's had it done for two weeks. That is a mean time of birth to new governments, but it has not been enough in this case. This isn't going to work, Mr. President. That's very obvious. The Senator can't let it come this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u6	Mr. President. It is now ten days from the highest. Prime Ministers offered a coffee meal at the Board of Directors, with the opposition, with everything forming backwards, and for all who were happy. They were expected that the end would be followed by the government opposition, that the case would be handled before elections and that men would be men of their word, and that they would be elections in the fall. But since then very little has happened. I see at the top. Prime Minister leaves the hall, I hope he doesn't leave the hall because of my words. Of course, it's more than just a little strange, and you can't handle the opposition as if you're not aware of it, that you can promise something in your sleeve, and you can't keep up. We need to start seeing what important subjects are on the program and when elections are due. We want to be taken seriously, but we don't want to get caught up in assholes' ears. [[The president calls.]] It's not possible, and we won't be left alone if we're going to act like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u7	President. The administrative home speaks a lot about building trust. To me, building trust is to create a trustworthy strategy. That plan is not yet available. Therefore, the President of Generalis himself must immediately set a date, for it is clear that those in charge of the government Home are incompetent or inadequate. So I challenge the president to make a date. It is in the hands of the council to do all these possible works and to have appeared on the list or request of the government which is, to be honest, President, not to be trusted, because it is a wish list which is for a whole term and not one month's time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u8	V.E.G. President. It was on the evening of April 6th as the highest. Financial and economic ministers here said that elections should be held in the fall, but a closer date should be determined by the progress of Congress. Then it came to the highest level. Recently, the prime minister held a meeting with the opposition and gave her word that elections would be held in the fall. It's April 20th and the date's not here yet. Of course, this is quite intolerable, and it is not least completely unsurpassed that any member of the board seems to be trying to change the story by saying that it may be elected in the fall. V.E.G. President. That has been said to be a very clear word, both on the part of the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance, to vote in the fall. [[The president calls.]] Now it's time we had to get a date because we're not going to enjoy it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u9	V.E.G. President. I'm hoping to get to the highest. The prime minister is a man of his word and that at this meeting last week, his mind was focused, not on a few things. It said that a later week would be held with a voteday and a lawsuit. Neither one has been seen. Some senators are beginning to talk snorkelly here in the tunnel, saying that there is no need to vote until next spring. It has been clear from the voters of this country to be elected here because people do not trust the government. Let us remember why this mistrust is in the government, that is because, by exposing the bank of Panama's documents, three ministers of the then government had a business in foreign societies. Two of them are still sitting, and that will be no pleasure, Mr. President. Now we must get a voteday and a language file that can be considered and how to win.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u10	President. I realize that the President will, of course, not be the president of the entire council and will make a date. It's just not like that, because the President of the Parliament is always the president of the greater part. President. I admit to mistakes. I made it a point to believe the prime minister when he promised to make a special day and a lawsuit. Now it's been found to be the highest. The prime minister has not kept his word. The promise to bring in a special day and a lawsuit is not that we can wait for weeks. The truth is, I thought best of it, considering the highest. And the prime minister behaved his words, that it should be laid down in all the days to come. Now it's been a long time. Once again, I would like to challenge the President of the Generals to show that he is the president of all members of Congress and that he will ensure that the public will know when the election will take place. There's nothing to get us on our asses day after day and act like nothing's happening, President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u11	Mr. President. It is not overhistoric that we are coming here again to demand the government to answer what is not supposed to be so complicated. I can't imagine how complicated it really is. Now the Council has begun to leak, or at least we should assume that it is. And it's perfectly clear after what happened in the 10-page national television news last night to the highest level. Ministers believe that they can handle it during the few days that remain because a work programme is being carried out. However, despite the fact that this is an effort to change it from day to day, the president of the council has not set up a new program. Why don't you just come out and say, "I'm an honest man." Prime Minister: We are not having elections in the fall. We are not going to vote until next spring because it is more convenient for us. Or what? What is it we should be thinking now when we cannot decide when to vote, and we are going to let it depend on the progress? [[The president calls.]] The promise has been betrayed up to this point on the time of the election by this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u12	Mr. President. It's April 20th, and tomorrow, as the candidate said, summer is the first day of the whole country. Then, in the beginning of the next week until Thursday, committee days will be held, so it will be April 28th when the next meeting is held in this hall, after this very day. In other words, April is about to end. It's not that complicated. Compared to the highest. The minister of finance is not going to become undistinguished in his words, but he spoke happily and never used this very clearly here on the ladder. He said: "This terms will be reduced to one legislature. In other words, on September 13, the Council of Justice will not be set up as would otherwise have been. That's all you can read from words at the highest level. Secretary of finance and, in fact, has the highest. The same is confirmed by the prime minister. Then we know. We have this legislature. It has been until the beginning of June, and then perhaps again, and filling in with the time or finding out what can be done in this marked period of time as the promises of the judges themselves are made. [[The president calls.]] It can't be like that, Mr. President, that the governments that made this promise to a nation and a council a few days ago can turn it into a special weapon whether or not they're doing it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Weapons on the board. It's not gonna work out in human relations, and it's time to go back, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The prime minister must start to offer some answers in these respects or admit that he has won and that trying to remain on the edge of his power was a mistake. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u13	V.E.G. President. The welfare committee has many major matters from the government, which we in our memory have shared fully in the work of the most faithful, we have done well with our work, and we have tried to speed up the legal process. At least I'm going to ask it to the highest level. President that we will not be here any day next week because it is unnatural to be so close to those who have proved faithful and have been trustworthy. It would be abuse of our trust to expect us to do this work and cooperation without knowing what the future will bring. I demand that this be no time for committee days until it is a election day and a top priority file from the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u14	Mr. President. I agree with the last speaker. We are working faithfully on committees, but we can't go on like nothing if we're not going to show anything. It's just unnatural. It is not possible to work faithfully on committees and to receive no objection from the executives on what matters should be put first, whether any matter of Congress should pass through, as it were. It's an unacceptable way to work. Sadly, these words have often been said here at the General Assembly of the past few months, an unacceptable practice. Of course, such things should not be tolerated. General. You have to start playing cards. Otherwise, you can think of yourself as if you intend to betray the promise to have elections in the fall. If they don't do anything, they're just trying to break that promise. [[The president calls.]] Because the promise was not only about elections but also about what would be done until the time had come and what work would be done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u15	A respectable president. When a meeting had been held with the lead of the administration board last week, the highest would be required. Prime Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson understood that he had become a participant because he was going to open the chapter on increased discussions with the government, increased reconciliation with the development of events, and increased conversation. I wonder here if it was without reason, i.e. the maximum possible effect. Ministers have not had a basis for these plans because from that point on, we are completely in the same reality as we were in the government of Sigmundur, Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson, i.e. There's no conversation going on, and we're getting information about what the government groups are thinking in controlled leaks out of the Council of Control. [[The president calls.]] The president of the council must accompany the General in maintaining that honor and calling out these answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u16	V.E.G. President. I'd like to recall that in a discussion at this council hall, where we discussed the proposal of the convention and the election immediately, a suggestion that was sadly made, the highest. Financial and economic minister, Bjarni Benediktsson, on permission of presidents: But we've listened. It is not by accident that the prime minister decides to step aside. It is not by chance that any member of the board here, with a well beyond measure, will decide to shorten the terms of the election. It has been observed repeatedly in the highest range. Government advisers that the terms of the season should be shortened and this will be chosen in the fall. [[The president calls.]] Actually, that's all there is to say. All we can do, and it's really amazing that we have to stand here forever and call for that date. [[The president calls.]] We have so many promises that now we have to get the money and get the date.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u17	There are: Prime Minister, Education and Culture Ministers and Social and Housing Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u18	A respectable president. I'll direct you to the highest level. The prime minister is in a somewhat similar area than he has been in the past few weeks. To be honest, I don't think there's anything wrong with the fact that a prime minister doesn't come to us clearly and tell us when the plan is to be chosen for the Generals and what priorities the government puts on. Then we hear all kinds of leaks and reports coming from the Board of Management on issues that the government may want to emphasize. It is a housing problem; it is not a problem with the government; the problem has so far been rather the internal dissociates of the board on it. There is talk of a bill for a peak of public payment in health care; it is a very good step that I think is generally supported as a step in the right direction. Change of insurance fees that the government is finally trying to figure out what to do, and we've called in for three years; we're not going to stop it. A national budget program that we have every desire to get paid here, and it's important. In fact, I heard about the end of the budget; it may be a reason to postpone Senate work until the fall that last financial law is needed. It has become such a joke, a respectable president, the failure of the government to deal with the priorities it will emphasize, that we must ask the highest degree. Prime Minister in the wonder of these matters. Where are the problems? I have recited the issues that have been under general discussion; none of them are a problem with us in the government situation. Why does prime minister simply not want our will tested here for cooperation? We are ready to resolve matters so that when the government groups handle matters, they can set down the date that pleases them in the fall. Or is it because of the inner conflict between the members of the board and because they fail to agree on when they rely on voters and have their own day?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u19	A respectable president. As a result of this introduction to this program, it is appropriate to review that during the first day of the government, the government established a mistrust in it, which was put to more than 38 members of Congress against 25. Here is a very powerful government with much more than that, and it intends to cooperate fully with the Parliament's commission to weaponize until the fall is chosen, as we have said. It is similar to what we were doing in November and that would be elections in spring, and members of Congress could not function because they did not know whether the election would be April 20, 25, or April 30. It is simply so that the members of Congress are in full - time service, there are many projects at the council that are natural to continue, tasks that have been held at the council, have been entering the council, have been in committees, and the government has stressed that they will end up part of the government's policy and work after the past three years, and this government that is now going to continue. I intend to meet with the secretary of finance with the President of the Generals today, and then I plan to make a meeting with the government on Friday to review the subjects that we began very well on last week and to continue with the conversation we have to have. In the last few days, as I have said, I have had a conversation with other members of the community. It's not just the government spirit to have a conversation with, in order to create trust here. [[Up front.]] I hope that's what people understand. But this is what's planned. There has been no change in the declarations made by government officials.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u20	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. Happy birthday Prime Minister; I did not realize his birthday was today. I'll be happy if it's the best. Prime Minister wants to see us again. We've been waiting for the information he said then that they were coming very soon. Part of rebuilding trust is keeping our word clean and that all things are on the table. A day in the fall, a respectable president, is not a personal matter. Prime Minister or Government or, if it is passed, here in this hall. It is important to send them a message immediately when people can expect elections. Because it may well be that neither me nor him will be leading the election in the fall or any of our classes or anything like that. It's just that there are democratic elections in this country. The people of the country have the right to make elections, to choose people in the arts, to create the political organizations that humans want to create, to put things ahead of them. It is only a natural requirement in a democratic state to lead the government, which has shown quick votes, that it will explain when that election will be so that those who are interested in national interference can take action and make an option for themselves at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much for this day. That's right, and I'll agree with that with the rest. A senator, that it is important to give democracy time to prepare for the election. That's why I think we're gonna do it. Surely a senator would agree that there had been an unscrupulous campaign now. This would have meant delays in activities that are urgent, projects that the community has to complete in the weeks ahead. Then political, new, and existing elements would not have allowed time to prepare elections and walk to the day when man's work is made up, how he has performed himself, and what he can expect. I agree with what. A senator says it's important. We have declared that we should not shorten the council and that the next spring will be chosen, not on the scheduled day, but in the autumn. We have also said that there are many vital tasks that must be completed and that play a role in the timing of the election day. [[The president calls.]] I intend to continue the fine conversation I had with the government on Friday last week and I hope we will understand that soon thereafter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u22	A respectable president. I want to direct you to the highest level. First, the prime minister congratulates him on his day. I ask in a way similar to what happened. Here's what I'm talking about. According to the Constitution, Iceland is a Parliamentary republic and the Commission, the government, is under the cover of the council. It matters for the government how things enter the council. We all know that it can be a complex process, especially when languages are large or complex. I would like to direct an inquiry to the task manager of the government, the highest level. The prime minister certainly is. I ask him if he did not worry about it, in view of the few days left by the Work Programme, and few election days until the fall of elections, the lack of progress for us senators, the government and the government, the matter to be put first, and the work to work. We know that the committees and procedures of the council are filled with matters that have been happening today in the winter; quite a few of these are quite extensive, and many of them are relatively extensive, which the government proposed on the last day just before the disaster struck a few weeks ago, and a new prime minister took over. I think it would be very important for us at the council, but more so for the government and the Supreme Court. As for the foreman, as soon as possible, we knew what important matters we were going to focus on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u23	A respectable president. That's right. That's what happened. A senator, who is a member of Parliamentary republic, Parliamentary Congress, and conducted under the cover of the council. I went over it in my first answer to what that situation is here today. Hence, no one needs to doubt this. It is important to see how people plan their time, I agree. A senator in it. In view of this, the meeting I intend to have with the council president later today is about it, and I've talked about it before, that it's only natural for us to re-evaluate the Council plan. When we make elections during terms, it is also natural to make use of the time we already have. There's a lot of potential election days. In fact, as far as a whole fall council would be before the election was announced. That is one of the things we need to discuss with the chairman of the council and the prime committee, ask her to discuss that matter. It must also be discussed with the government leaders, and that is what we intend to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Ministers gave the answers and welcomed a meeting. The minister mentioned that there may be as many days as there is in the autumn council, but unfortunately, experience during this term has shown us that if the work is not properly organized, the autumn Council is not necessarily very productive. In this context, I think I must agree with others who have spoken here today about the importance of knowing the election day, not that it is at some point in the fall, since autumn is rather long. Then I'm not just thinking about the council planning, not just the political parties or the politicians. I know people who are planning to get married in the fall and who are interested in knowing what the autumn will be like. I think everybody's waiting on a date this long fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u25	A respectable president. I have a clear understanding of all people's expectations and plans. I was getting married in the summer of 2009 and learned when I was on my honeymoon that it wasn't a council because it wasn't informed them about what happened tomorrow. [[Up front.]] I have a complete understanding of such views. [[Up front.]] We're going to review these matters, I agree with the senator how important it is that all of them are organized, both the work being done, and the time that men plan for them. That's how we get the most efficiency, that's how we have to work here at the council, and that's how we build trust with the public in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u26	President. Of course, the reason for the political agitation we are still in the middle is historical events and perhaps the largest political corruption case we have ever seen that extends its arms across countries and continents and has truly touched down in Iceland. It shows how Iceland and Icelandic politics will react to this event and how Icelandic politics will not react to this situation. Of course, this is why the prime minister gave away, and a new prime minister began with a new government, but he claims that nothing really changed. V.E.G. The prime minister is in charge here at critical times, and then we are not talking about the government's priorities, what day will be the outcome, or when a meeting will be held, but the historic role he is in, perhaps the only thing that stands out when it comes back. how Prime Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson handled matters of tax control and of foreign society. On what basis did he want to see these matters? He agreed to the requirements of the left movement ◯ Green offering a thorough investigation of the subject. A senator and president of the Economic and Business Committee have made a positive report? Or he agrees with the highest. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson's son, who has crashed and when it comes to dealing with the unprecedented sizes that Iceland faces, in effect, feels that there has been enough work to do so far? [[The president calls.]] So the question is, How is it going to be? Prime Minister as political director of the government to respond?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u27	A respectable president. I think every season lives in such a way that it's fateful times for him. I think it's possible to look into history and see if there are times when there are more critical times than others. I'd like to say in the beginning that this isn't a political upset, not of any kind. In the circumstances that were created two weeks ago, in two days the same government, with the same powerful part, the same government covenant, and we continue the powerful work of the government before it was worked and will continue to do so. Neither were political corruption issues here. However, thanks to the fact that a lot of Icelandic companies have taken advantage of taking money into the tax industry, under tax taxes, and no doubt some part of it is to conceal or do not pay taxes, although not all apply. It is proper to make a clear distinction. We, however, need to deal with those who have fled with money to conceal it or to avoid paying the normal community fees that all of us do. In what way have we put it? Yes, we immediately set off work at the council to inform us about the situation. We have declared that the institutions we have are going to use to study these matters fully and to bring about the outcome. I have stood in this chair and challenged the individuals there making their doors clean. Yes, we need to investigate that. In what way is this the most reasonable? I have suggested that we rely on these institutions and make sure that they have both financial and human resources to do so, but, of course, are ready to examine all other factors. [[The president calls.]] Among other things, we have considered examples from abroad, where we feel that things are done best.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u28	President. Thank you very much. Ministers to their answers as far as they could go. They understand that he believes that the government does not have to take any special initiative in this matter. Frosti Sigurjónsson, president of the Economic and Business Committee, said: "In my opinion in Iceland, to be in the highest order of the countries in the battle -- against what? It's against the business of the tax industry. That's where it hits. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónirsson Line. It's the highest. Ministers don't agree with that definition? Is there a physical difference between the case of Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, former prime minister, who gave up his office and the case of Bjarni Benediktsson son of finance and economic minister? Is there a difference in these matters? So Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson didn't think he was, but Bjarni son of Benediktsson thinks so. I want to know if it's the highest. A minister thinks that this will be there, or not, because it really matters about the development of the case. Then I want to ask the highest. A minister to explain whether it is reasonable for him to dismiss the council as an proposal for the left movement to a green project on a research committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u29	A respectable president. As we have noted in the news and indeed in this hearing last week, we in the government took up this matter immediately, during our first government meeting held on Monday after the first weekend that the government had announced a mistrust that we made in 38 votes against 25. Then we took these matters up, both to evaluate how the coverage was elsewhere and within the country. As a result, the chairman of the Council of Economic and Business Committee began to propose our investigation of the situation. We have declared that we will make sure that these parties have all the opportunity to investigate what needs to be investigated. Whether we should consider going further and establish a special team of cooperation with these parties, I feel that it is a good option, as has been done elsewhere. [[The president calls.]] I have warned that there will be a special committee of inquiry to investigate the tax issues of individuals or companies. However, I have emphasized that the council has a controlled role, can take up these matters, and will be informed at any given time so that it is very important to be at any given time as to how this situation is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u30	President. RUSU News Office is a narrowly punctured format. In view of the lack of funding to do so much research that the Panama Documents call and also the importance of good work, I would like to know if there is such an important and socially important leak of data that has already revealed information to the national benefit. Minister of Illugi Gunnarsson may think of making use of his drawer to help with these data could go on fast and well. It is a huge appeal in the community to be accessed to the information available on the 600 Icelandic sources contained in these documents, and it is expected that they will be with an African society in Tortolu. If a minister has no intention of making use of his drawer in this manner, may I pray to the highest degree. Minister Illugi Gunnarsson to argue.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u31	A respectable president. The following will discuss a recent service contract made between the Ministry of Education and the State Radio. It presents the vision that we share, the Ministry and the State Radio, on how the Kingdom News works in general for the next few years. For a specific request why. There is no request from the State Radio or a complaint that money lacks to care for the news services or reporting that the Agency considers necessary. As long as it doesn't tell us about the State Radio, of course, I don't think there's any reason to deal with one or any such thing in this regard, i.e. it needs to be made clear from the Government Radio that they cannot do their duty properly and that they lack the means to do so, and then it needs to be discussed in a natural way at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u32	President. In view of this response, I must ask and call for a clear answer to whether the highest. Then the minister is ready to use his drawer money in it if the SpV News Office comes with such a request. At the same time, I would like to ask the minister, exactly in the light of his words now, whether it was the initiative taken by Eyþór Arnaldur, which he gave to the Eyþór Arnaldur to make a report for himself or on the initiative of the minister. V.E.G. A minister was able to pay 5 million for a report on the business of RUS, which many thought was rather wrong with money because the quality of the report did not necessarily reflect professional views and approach. It is true to remind you that by the value of the report, RUS could have bought three Kast Light Shows on the Panama Documents.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u33	A respectable president. Communications between the Minister and the State Radio take place through the government administration of the Ohf. but not between the individual departments of the State Radio for Ministers. I don't expect there to be an arrangement here. Of course, a minister at any given time and at the General Assembly must respond if the government of the Kingdom News ohf. feels that they cannot fulfill their responsibilities in the existing service contract. This is especially necessary. [[Up front.]] It is stated in the Service Committee not to put up with the financial leaders and not to go together the funds that flow to the Government Radio and the duties of the Government Radio as per a service contract, both sides have the option to accept that agreement. On such grounds, we must work and agree that it is necessary to do so. About what question? The senator taking the initiative to make an assessment. A senator here makes a subject of my initiative, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u34	Mr. President. Yeah, a lot right, I'm going to make a third attempt to subtract. The prime minister has some clearer answers to the state of the council and to the elected date. In fact, I think it's coming to our highest level. Ministers, executives of the administration parties, apparently did not discern for themselves what was involved in the promise of elections in the fall. V.E.G. The prime minister would agree that during a regular term, a person will know when to vote. Yeah, it's totally inconsistency. The promise was on an irregular election day, shortening the terms. It is important that this date is available as soon as possible. We all know what law and constitution are like. If irregular election day decisions are not made, then it is the last Saturday for four years since the last date of the election, and they are already there for four years. But now there is no such thing. There is a sharp difference between practitioners and materially for many to choose, e.g. at the beginning of September or the end of October or even in November. There are many practitioners. One, for example, is thousands of Icelanders living abroad who have fallen out of a ballot but who can report in advance to the voter will be willing to participate in elections. They know what time they have if it is a regular scheduled day, not in such circumstances. So I repeat, the highest. The prime minister must be able to comment on this: Is it likely to be elected in early September and then the Council, which is now completed by the council and will make the preliminary arrangements for the laws that will have to be made against the Convention Act on a new session of budgetary regulations and so on? Or is the government thinking of bringing this promise into the winter, stretching autumn into the blackest winter? It is perfectly business and natural for us to find some answers to this question. So it is with the government's priority list. [[The president calls.]] It's most embarrassing for the highest. Nearly two weeks after he began to take over, the prime minister was not able to comment on that. [[The president calls.]] So when this was said at the time, there were certain matters and so important that the government would have to continue. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u35	A respectable president. I think that in this room it is necessary to understand the situation, agree with that. Senator. The situation is, as the government showed on the first day, there is a government of 38 members in the greater part. It is carried out on the basis of the same government covenant that had already taken place and worked on matters that have been available in the council, on the basis of dozens of them, and on a number of them are important issues that have been stressed by men in the council committees. It is not surprising that the Council operates in a completely natural way while there is a conversation between the government opposition and the head of the body and the members of the council in what way it will clarify when it is best to enter the election. Clearly, the nature of the matter at the council hangs out. That's what we've said many times. This will be explained in conversation with the chairman of the council today and then at the front of the board on Friday, in the manner in which these matters are being conducted. Most important, everyone has come to realize that this is a government with much more work and that it is done on the basis of the same government contract that will continue to work on the issues before the council and in the committees will end up with enough planning for the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u36	Mr. President. I think this is the sixth time today as the highest. One prime minister says that there is a strong government here, and five times he has listed its support to 38 members. Needs a magnum. To convince yourself that this is the case in real life, the prime minister is to chew it out that way? Is it really possible, then, that it might be different when we come to the political position of this government, which itself has decided to shorten the terms and promises of elections and put things into the direction we are discussing? The General's president has been in trouble over the past few days that he has not known which case to set. He has chosen the means to establish a simple agreement, only issues that are common to the committee, because they have nothing until they know what is in store for them, what is agreement, and what is not. Here's the election. This body of elders has already come to the fore in the last few months of each government's work. So it's really unrealistic if it's the highest. Government and supreme. The prime minister sees him as just one person in the world with this subject and is able to define the reality that is right for him. [[The president calls.]] It's not.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u37	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator like me once made it very important that there are always a few things to know when to choose, including Due to technical considerations, such as sub-election laws and the possibility of opportunity for democracy to prepare and go to the election. Therefore, within 45 days of the election, none of those conditions would have been clearly met. I guess the senators agree on that. I haven't been coming up here to convince myself of anything. I listened for less than an hour to the members of the council coming up and calling, instead of perhaps accepting this discussion, about something completely different. I think it's important for everyone to understand that we've got a council here, and there's a lot of normal stuff here, and everybody's got a full-time job here. It's only natural for them to continue. [[The president calls.]] Then it will become clear in the days ahead, including in a discussion with the government when the next step will be taken. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's perfectly normal. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u38	Mr. President. I bring it to my attention, because I have heard it now both ways. The members of the member states are very much disturbed when they are asked if they are prepared to be conducted by the General for an investigation of Iceland's African society, that before the Council, there is a proposal from the left movement ◯ green offering that the General Assembly appoints five members with special knowledge of international relations and financial and tax issues. That's the best I can hear. Prime Minister here as well as in the answers to the highest. The secretary of finance to my repeated inquiries on this matter is that they are moving away, that they do not want the Allied people to investigate this huge case that other Western nations are in a rush to adopt and have the presidents of the Icelandic government not. I'd like to say under this team, Mr President's conference manager, that I think it's a responsibility thing if the President of Generalis is not involved in putting this matter on schedule so that it can be taken into consideration. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]] It has been discussed here that the council should only carry on as normal as possible. [[The president calls.]] Let us place important issues on the program that focus on the day's issues and show that the Council is prepared to take a clear stand on this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u39	A respectable president. It is very important to keep it in mind that the government does not want to investigate the issues discussed here, such as the Panama Documents or any tax fraud taking place in our community, that this, of course, is nothing other than innuendo and braces, is not to be said otherwise because there has been repeated, a respected president, with government officers, both the Supreme Court. Prime Minister and secretary of finance, that they will give nothing in these matters. [[Up front.]] We have a government agency to handle these matters. It has been shown that if needed, men are willing to contribute to their budget in order to handle these matters more fully. But that's how it is, a respectable president. Senators here speaking in the way that has been done today did not trust them to handle the matters we order them to do? Is it so that the General needs to study the country's taxes? Hear the endemity.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u40	Mr. President. I agree with that. paritaprevir The head of the left movement ▪ Green Pronunciation, Katrín Jakobsdóttir, is that it is minimal under these circumstances that the proposal for a research committee will be implemented, and at least the Council will take sides with it. Will we Icelanders take such a course or someone else? Britain, France, and other nations have already taken an extensive public examination. Not only does the taxpayer, the taxpayer, or his taxpayer, of course he does, but he also has a specific official investigation of the issue, e.g. Whether banks, either personal banks or partly owned by the State, were particularly using themselves for this purpose. It is discussed in Norway, Sweden, Britain, the Netherlands, France. No one's talking about an FBI research committee, the National Research Committee, not members of the Parliament themselves, who would be investigating a single tax offense. [[The president calls.]] Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has nothing to worry about. This would be an investigation of the extent of the case, comparable to the investigation carried out at the fall of banks. If information becomes evident there, they will go to the tax investigator or taxpayer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's about taking the case seriously, and it's a very strange plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u41	The president also wants to take a firm hold of the sessions of the Senate speakers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u42	Mr. President. If we are going to try to get to the bottom of this matter as it seemed to me on all political groups that have the last ten days, two weeks, discuss this matter, then I think it's a priority to agree with the proposal presented here by the left movement, a green offer. I think it's very important that this is a map. I think we need to see, like cot. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon said earlier, what is the scope of this case. What could be the major source of taxes? Is it possible that it is at a rate similar to that of a foreign country? At that time, it is likely to be six thousand and one hundred thousand thousand and one hundred billion. We just need to know. Then I review it to the reason. At one time, the senators very strongly insisted that these requirements be made public. I believe it is necessary for me and other citizens of this country to know if they were Icelanders and Icelandic companies who through a tax bill had requirements of the bank on a large scale, or even became vultures, and bought demands at the low price. [[The president calls.]] This is what I want to know. I trust the State to represent such an investigation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u43	A respectable president. I don't think some senators realize that the matter discussed here, the interpretation proposal of the left green, the fine proposal, is no longer a question of law violations; it is not just a matter of which law is carried out or which law is violated. This has become a high political language of the order that the prime minister eventually claimed. But before he did, the watchdogs had protected him into a red death, and the defense, of course, was sure to fail from the first day. The high Council and the Supreme Assembly are then inexorably set in motion. The government and members of the greater part show that they are serious about dealing with these views, not just from some legal point of view, but from political issues. It matters. That's why this suggestion, this nice suggestion of the left green, should be on the program. We're supposed to talk about it, and we're not supposed to stop discussing it until we get to the bottom of it and not just from law school but from politics. That's important, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u44	A respectable president. One of the main lessons that can be drawn from the General's study reports is that monitoring of institutions, including Generalis, failed. Now we're seeing the consequences. The Panamas are the result of the collapse, and the reason they come up with people is because we thought it was over. I don't think there's anything wrong with expecting a research committee to be formed on this matter. I'd probably like that. This is part of setting up the collapse that was, to keep it clean, certainly not my fault, but perhaps rather the other older members here; not a very good future that I will face in the coming decades. Thank you very much, I would like a research committee to report these Panama documents simply to make up this damned crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u45	Mr. President. A very clear question has been presented here to the officials of the board on whether or not they are willing to support the proposal that the Council would represent a specialistic investigation of this matter, an African society owned by the Icelanders. Like what? Instead, members of the council have talked, or rather, gradually shifted to the point where the seriousness of the matter has been evident to them, and I would have felt that getting it on schedule should be an easy matter, but there are no clear answers from the directors of the administrations. That not wanting the General to take a clear stand on this matter is a very serious political message, Mr. President. That's why this matter has to come on schedule, and it has to be made payable. Senators can show it by their vote if they really want the General to take a handsome look on this matter. This certainly does not rule out supporting our fine organizations on these issues. This, of course, is a matter of dramatic importance to the world's economy if it has passed by. Councilmen. [[The president calls.]] It's a shame if the Allied Congress of Iceland, once we've realized that this is a world record for African society, as evidence suggests, is not going to film this case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's a complete disgrace, Mr. President. And I'd like to reiterate the requirement that this matter be arranged for the next meeting. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u46	A respectable president. It's not over yet. It is not that although there will be a new government and some replacement, and there has just been a new start in the government, all of this is by wind, hence, people can just say, "Hey, just keep doing our work here, because there's going to be some great political news, news on a world scale. From the leadership of both governments, it has been stated that they believe that there is no need for special action on that basis, they do not consider it to be. In view of the seriousness of the situation, I make a clear demand for the President of the Generals to suggest the left movement a green proposal for a special research committee that will qualify for the project at the meeting on Thursday next week.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u47	A respectable president. Does anyone need to wonder whether it is the will of all of us that these matters all surface and as soon as possible? In what way is that true of government leaders? It's just a petty improvisation that takes place, a dishonest saying that's way too much used here in the Senate hall. Council members, and the basis for the fact that respect for the council is no greater than it is. Here people come and call for a list of who the demands are. The same people made such a suggestion during their last term. [[Up top, not me.]] That's what she said. She didn't get a walk, a suggestion. paritaprevir Lilja Mósesdóttir, was it? But this time it's called. [[Up front.]] It shines through, a respectable president, for what this compromise is, trying to mislead and create turmoil. [[Up front.]] Of course, all things will be done on the part of the government, that has been repeated in the words of the highest court. The secretary of finance, since he has considered how we are participating in international activities in that with other countries trying to get to the bottom of these matters, trying to eliminate these so - called tax cover. [[The president calls.]] Of course, that will not be a problem. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u48	President. I think that all of us can agree that the respect of the council is not sad because of what happened. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson said earlier. No, the respect of the Generals is not great because there are no ways to show a parapolitic agreement on important issues, such as the subject under consideration. In view of what has happened here, it would be natural for all members of the council to at least support that the matter would take place so that we could see what the general will was. The inability to do such a simple thing or to perform such a simple thing as to show the will of the council is part of the fall of the Council. For this reason, there are many reasons, including the world's top news reports about two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u49	Mr. President. The reason that we are discussing this is simply the furthest of the government leaders who have received the questions during the past few days and in part to whether they agree that in this way or after the events of some other person, they will be sure to have a thorough public investigation of the scope and nature and consequences of this national activity, in which the Icelands seem to intend to flaunt questionable world values. Why should we not examine this into our system of things and at the same time support the positions that go into unique cases from the standpoint of being wronged? Thus, this is happening at the same time and in relation to either other activities, such as the General Commission and then the office of a special prosecutor in the past. The exact same procedure. It is highly suspicious that humans are devious of these substances. [[The president calls.]] So I expect the General himself to take sides on what they want to do in these matters? Of course, this will be best done by accepting an committee's proposal immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u50	A respectable president. There are reports that many have not, although it is a matter of having communities in these taxes, in these accounts. People have defended themselves when they have felt that they were under charge of tax heaps. All right. It turns out that very many people feel that it's all right to have communities in these countries. This team, about the President's conference board, is not meant to include material discussions. That's right. Here material discussions are being demanded in a specific matter, a case designed to discuss the matter materially, i.e. proposal left green. That is why we should set it up in a material way so that we do not need to take a minute talk materially about matters that burn in the nation and the council all, as should be, rather than constantly being procrastination about the matter in meeting management whether to discuss such matters or not. Of course we should talk about this. It's clearer. I'm sorry to suggest there's no need. This is the subject of today. We're supposed to talk about this. The motion is in order. Let's put this on schedule. Let's talk about her. Let's do this for a vote and see what happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u51	Mr. President. During discussions about the perpetuity of the Prime Minister, all of us were discussing how to handle this matter. I thought it was necessary to map this case and try to dig for its magnitude. I also felt that I would forbid Icelanders to have bills in tax-paradises that would not meet Western and OECD's demands on bills and such. On the left motion of the offer, I think it will be scheduled for the first practical event and no later than when it is met. It's just that it's all right. I've measured the highest. The prime minister I have no confidence in in in a way that would displease him. I think if it's the highest. The government wants to agree with the government's opposition to the outworking of events that it stresses must meet the government's opposition to issues that it stresses. I think, although I'm not at least yet in the left movement, it's one of the priorities. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u52	Mr. President. It does not add to the credibility of the government what it draws on this matter. Of course, the proposal for the left green should be made to include a public study of the tax industry and the welfare of the Icelanders on that matter. These are no small tax frauds from some small company that took place there. These are serious things that countries around the world are now working hard to develop. Me and the Icelanders are supposed to set a good example and take up this case, take it seriously, but they don't start putting it out and south, and they're going to make the head of the Economic and Business Director on this project, a man who doesn't have a clean year in this matter, had it covered in back and up and off and should be the one who controls this work for the government's sake. It's just a joke, of course. Of course, we have to take this firm, and that would be the right hand of the government to the government's opposition, and we would join in this for granted and make the proposal and hand it out as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u53	A respectable president. That's exactly what I think it said. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson earlier found that the discussion of this matter is no longer a matter of tax violations or whether other laws were broken over the head but has become a high political issue. That is in the very light it is, in the highest sense, strange, at least to my own knowledge, that it is reserved. Councilmen want to use the Council as part of a role that belongs to the European Commission. It's just as if they want to push it aside, which has been fundamental to the government of Iceland, which is the trident of the state. [[Up front.]] It's wrong what happened to you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon says that this is just a matter of convolutation proposal for a general study. This study, in particular, might have an effect on reevaluation of taxes. [[The president calls.]] This suggests that the Council is taking part in projects that truly belong to the European Commission. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u54	President. I don't understand this fear of taking the matter on schedule and giving a vote on it, and it's here in the Hall of Congress whether or not the majority will support this case. I'd also like to draw attention to it, Mr. President, that I was listening to news from the countries around us, where bankers have been called before Senate committees in Norway and Denmark to determine whether they still have such activities that have been found to be very extensive there, but especially in Iceland. I don't think the council here has dealt with this matter sufficiently. We have the biggest news about this because the disgrace is here, and we just don't do anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u55	A respectable president. According to the definition of the od. paritaprevir Sigrides Andersen then this investigation would not have taken place, leading and causing the fall of the Icelandic banks in 2008 and related events. It's an eight tie. They're all good and important. You see, it was on the basis of a law on research committees. But last night, he said it was the highest. The senator's president for such a case, i.e. of the research committees at the scene and in the name of the Allied Icelanders. So it is embarrassing to have to be in such a proverb about the basics of the Independence Party members when it is a matter of compromising the clear demand and right role of the Allied Parliament in such serious matters, which is taking up the matter and leading to its completion. It's a serious problem. paritaprevir "Said Andersen here clearly speaks for what her companions think, "that it's none of our business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u56	The president wants to issue a full name when addressing members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u57	A respectable president. You're absolutely right what this happened to you. paritaprevir Svandís the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, who had been allowed earlier in this discussion today for the President's conference board that last night it was precisely recommended for a bill to legalize the General Commission. It's only natural that there's an progress, but I think there's an agreement in this chamber that there's an urgent and important need for careful action when people agree that the Generals would normally be involved in the investigation of the nation's big interests. However, it is possible to wonder, for example, whether a report by the World Committee of the Council, here waved and cost another billion dollars. and more reports shortly after failure have served purpose at that time. The same can be said of the subject under discussion. However, it does not suddenly change that in the existing Senate arrangement, it is specifically discussed and insisted that this investigation should be the basis and basis for the restoration of taxes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It can't resist a tridentium of state power.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u58	A respectable president. I would like to open my case by thanking a respectable president for putting this matter on schedule. In December, I had mentioned in the last year's issue of Our Kingdom News that when a contract between the Ministry of Education and the State Radio was in place, he would come to Congress so that members of Congress would have the opportunity to discuss it. I will address the key points that I believe are relevant to this agreement, including When compared with the last contracts, the general emphasis is being made here. The point is that in this contract the role and scope of the State Radio work in the implementation of public media services is further defined. Second, the contract is designed to set out specific goals that involve the democratic, social, and cultural roles of the State Radio. Third, the State Radio funding, information, media, etc. First, I want to call attention to the factors involved in the presentation, service, and scope of the work. There are the groups of subjects mentioned in the laws to be included in the Kingdom News program. In the beginning of my speech, I want to bring the Council's attention to the agreement that the Kingdom News program should be comparable to the size and size of the year 2015, taking into account income and pay, so that the program and services can be done during the contract period up to 10% compared to the above year. This is where I refer to a discussion that took place at the last assembly regarding the position that was set for radio rate 16.400 a.m. by law. In the discussion that has to do with the offer, service, and scope of the work, I would especially like to draw attention to the newer points that in this contract, the Government Guide should always be a matter of competitiveness. That's specifically stated, and that's what I think is for improvement. For special purposes of the contract, they are the following: First, cultural. It says, by permission of a respectable president: ▪ The TV will increase the time of the contract and put increasing emphasis on national programs and put cultural material ahead of priorities in the schedule. Another factor that is very important is the increased purchase of independent manufacturers. The contract says, a respectable president, with your permission: The government radio will strengthen and promote independent television programs, movies, and documentarys by becoming a buyer or a mediator of such material. During the contract period, the Kingdom News will buy or be co-conductors to acting TV programs, movies, documentarys, and other programs in the media of the Kingdom News. The TV should be protected to a minimum of 8% of total income in 2016, 9% in 2017, 10% in 2018, and 11% in 2019. This is a significant increase compared to what's in other contracts. I stress and draw attention to the fact that this is the total income, not the state enterprise, as was previously proposed in terms of these calculations. Then I find special attention and celebrate very much, I believe that there's a big step in progress, that within the TV, there will be a special unity established by the name of the RIV photos. The role of RIV films is to promote increased supply in acting Icelandic quality material. This unity should be directed by a special professional staff appointed by a radio manager and should be employed by clear and professional practices. The national radio commits itself to give 200 billion. K. At least to buy or to produce such material through VOLV photos. The contract also anticipates an increase in the emphasis on children's Icelandic content. It then emphasizes changing the priority of foreign television programs, reducing angelxian materials, and increasing percentages of national television programs, which are mentioned in hundreds of numbers. The maintenance and sharing of older substances, i.e. The Kingdom Radio Gold Box and proposed that there be a costly strategy for how to handle it. The Democratic role of the State Radio is important. The contract contains regulations for the press service, which in itself is in accordance with previous agreements. Among other things, they are colored by the elections ahead of them, including Presidential elections; how the Kingdom News will deal with such elections, how will the coverage of political candidates and groups, and so on. I believe that there is something more clear and clearer than ever before. In terms of its bioavailability, the State Radio should endeavor to use technical solutions to ensure access to those who are unable to use their service in a standard way. This is important and includes the approach we see in similar locations in the North countries. I'd especially like to call attention to point 2:3.2 of the contract which is a national service. It suggests that efforts should be made to continue promoting news transport and programs from the region. In terms of safety and public status, it is new that the State Radio operates in a security policy. The radio manager shall appoint a security committee responsible for the security concerns of the state radio. It must be considered, and in cooperation with the public defences and other relevant institutions, its security policy will be established by the state radio. The national radio can promote increased cooperation with other institutions, such as the P.R. and the State Police Department on Emergency Line, and then the State Radio can negotiate cooperation on the conduct of National Security Policy. Here, there's a law to always be the rights of men and women and a way of speaking. There is new recommendations in the section on internal monitoring and quality, which are set up in the law. It is now considered in more detail to these factors. It requires that the government of the Kingdom News set up rules of conduct. It is assumed that there is a moral code - and it has been done and worked by the staff of the Kingdom News - which should be made available to the public. The Government Guide shall set up regulations on internal monitoring and quality, and shall be published prior to November 1. I'd like to draw special attention, sire President, on the idea that all vacancies should be advertised and filled in after an open, professional and transparent recruitment process, as well as that contractors are employed in an open, professional and transparent process. In terms of financing, it is important that any strong claim is taken away that the funds guaranteed to the State Radio are placed in view of 2016, that they do not reduce the reality of the period. If they don't exist, if the greater part of the Council plans to be disintegrated, then here's a set of rules that allow each party to ask for a contract to be accepted if the premises to change. In this context, I want to draw special attention to chapter 3 of the financing. It discusses some 175 million. K. which in 2016 was especially given to the State TV for the development of play - playing television programs. It shows that if this cannot be continued, the commitment of the Kingdom News to the extra supply of the game will fall. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Other than that, I'm not going to go further into these things. [[The president calls.]] I point to the fact that this contract is much more detailed than ever before, and therefore is also a better control tool for the staff of the Kingdom News, radio manager, and the government to work in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u59	A respectable president. The Ministry of Education and the State Radio on Service Treaty has finally arrived at a conclusion within several months of the last contract. As noted in a book recently produced by three agencies of the Agency for this reason, this contract is a shadow of significant cuts - and I want to add in the shadow of adversity and opposition that this important cultural institution and this importance of public media in the public service has been permitted for many years. In this contract, it also appears, as the Federal Radio League has indicated, a clear discrepancy between the democratic and cultural roles that the Agency is to play in the words and conditions it is made to prepare for its role. In this contract, it says that the State Radio should allow people to shape their views and draw conclusions from the right information based on what can be done at any time. But as we have seen in recent political developments, in the last few weeks, independence and the strength of the media are of utmost importance for open and democratic discussions and are invaluable strength in a democracies community, but unfortunately a thankless quality and unappreciative. This is seen in the attacks that the TV often encounters, including those in this field, and how those in authority often aim to shun this media medium and thus take some form of typhus over an independent media medium. Let us not forget the decision made by the Head of the United States last December to cut the radio fee, the head of the Kingdom News, the second consecutive year. As a result of this decision, this year some 213 million basic activities have been forced by the State Radio. Is it a cut-off that comes in addition to extensive surgery in recent years, where cutbacks have been largely overlapd in the staff group, the program, and the basic services? Once again, the Kingdom Radio is moved to cut down the same knee, operate on people, and cut down basic services and schedules for the damage to the role and function of this important agency, which is the guardian of democracy and flagship of the open and enlightened discussion. The Convention allows for the provision and services of the contract period to increase by up to 10% compared to 2015. This service contract, as noted, is thus a contract of limited service, and it represents the ability of the National Radio to run a powerful news agency and maintain a more effective program. What may be more important, he postpones a long period of timely registration and application of the early topic of The Kingdom News, which contains priceless cultural value that I doubt is that people in general are fully aware of what is worth. In the name of the positive, it can also be said that in this contract a few benefits can be found. For example, I would like to mention that the services in the country's region are secured and that the collection of radio fees per person in 2016 does not reduce the real value of the contract period. To further the game of Icelandic TV, we will consider a special budget of 175 million already approved on budgets. Thus, you can find light points in this service contract, perhaps saying that this is some kind of defense. Nevertheless, the conclusion is that this service contract, a respectable president, does not announce new hours in the budget. [[The president calls.]] He continues to disappear after the long - term financial crisis and opposition of this important institution, which all research shows that the public wants to protect and promote. That's where we could do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u60	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Education minister of the Illugi Gunnarsson report on a service contract with the State Radio for 2016 ◯2019 An advance team has always emphasized the work program of the State Radio. To me, the radio plays a very important role in our society today. However, a review of emphasis needs to be made constantly and in the best way that the function is done at any given time. I'm happy with the focus of the service contracts and how detailed it is, especially the importance of the Icelandic material for children, the service in the country, the availability of older material, and cooperation in security roles, as well as the emphasis on internal monitoring and more extensive annual reports. It is said that in all operations the competitiveness and clear emphasis will be placed on the cultural and educational role, the priority, including the emphasis on the Icelandic material for children, and I would like to review especially some of the measures and criteria involved in this work. It is expected that the purchase and production of domestic children by diverse formats will be increased over the contract period. The emphasis is on developing programs to promote the locks of children. This is particularly important today, e.g. Based on the possibility of bilingual children in order to have equal opportunities for taking Icelandics out of a wide range of equality for study, the Kingdom News can support the aims of home and school on better locks. During this period, educational material in the field of science and technology should be provided for children and young people. It is a role that, if well-being, can contribute to the goal of increasing interest in technology and science in the general community over a period of time. Bioavailability of the Kingdom broadcast to children's products and collection should be increased over time as one of the important factors in this context. But there's more to it than that without me running it here. Despite my first circumstances in my life, I can see that there are no more children than we have already seen in the program The Kingdom News. Active internal monitoring and focus on quality. For this reason, the Government Board and its employees are expected to set up rules and standards. In my mind, internal surveillance is essential and particularly important in changing processes. Internal Affairs is shown in various forms, e.g. the rules on how to work, values, and general guidelines on how to achieve goals best. Thus internal surveillance can never be better than the work assigned to establish and maintain it, but at the same time contributes to harmony, positiveness, and follow-up of all involved and the likelihood of reaching its goal. For the first time it is stated that the State Radio can play its security role in increasing cooperation with other institutions, such as the P.R., the State Marshal or the Emergency Line, if possible at the same or below costs. If that is the case, the State Radio will be part of the success of such cooperation. I believe that in recent years, we have seen a certain mistake in not linking better with the members of the security team, which I thought was revealed during the eruption of the Holunun, that at this point it was possible to do much better by a more clear process and by better linking information with information. Of course, it has a key role. We have good information webs and assessments from institutions that are not specifically mentioned in the service agreements but I believe it is important to look into this cooperation, such as the Weather Service and the Road Building and other parties. The service contract does not compromise the requirement for distribution of materials to reach 99.8% of national households, but it is also important to negotiate with third parties for distribution of materials without a special cost of home living. Then, in the contracts, a more complete dissociation in the annual balance of expenses for the individual activities of the VR and this as well as the annual report, which includes the detailed reporting and scope of the work, I think that can lead to a perturbative discussion of the activities of RUS both at the General Assembly and in the community, as well as the ability to improve priorities in the function of different roles. Then I welcome increased emphasis on the use of technical solutions to meet those who are not able to use standard media services as well as the availability of purchase, production, and production of all materials in the TV program. In overall terms, I see no better than the service contract lays a fine foundation for the development of a powerful State Radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u61	Mr. President. I just want to come into this discussion and thank you very much. Minister for report. I have to agree with other government opposers that I think this is a surgical contract. We have been overlooked in the left movement when the issue of RUS has been discussed that we are very at odds with current government policies and current education ministers when it comes to RUS and how the issues have been under way. Of course, the agreement is not all bad, no more than any other agreement, but it does not change its lack of financial support and our prospects for the future. I'd like to start by going in on the financial side because she's been very busy. We've noticed that the reversal that has taken place on the State Radio has been made manifest. The number of people has been reduced, and it has been shown on the program, with the dramatic reversal of the year's profits of 80 million. K. For taxes, compared to 339 million. K. lose in 2014. Each person sees that there must be a way somewhere, both in the population and in the same way. RUSB has sold the building rights. They don't have it for a warning in the contract. If this were to be done, its own money would be 21.6% instead of 6.2%, but it is good that precautionary measures should be guided, as following the 2016 approval of the budget, as well as after this service contract, it is clear that some 213 billion are needed. K. to ensure a slantless operation this year. There is no need to tell anyone what that really means, that the program is further affected, and there is a greater decrease in the number of people. I'm pretty sure RUSB's supposed to specialize in something as a media, but I don't think that in terms of his role, he's meant to. to further improve the local program, that it will be possible when the cut that is being declared here continues in this period. Let us not forget that there was also a labour agreement increase for the staff of VOLV. If the radio fee had remained stable, it would have contributed quite a bit more money to the business that would have mattered and would have come back where it cannot be. We've been talking overwe've talked many times. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on it, I know there's been a discussion with LS on the subject: Has it been thought that the State or the Ministry overrun this debt along with the Top Search 1? Time flies from you. I'd like to say for the rest that I'm happy to see that it's working in the country. I would have liked to see her grow further instead of just keeping her where she is. There is a great need for us to hear that the radio is really the radio of all the people of the country. People do their best in terms of the money they are for the project, but they need to be more. I am happy not to stress the Icelandic game but to double the amount for the game to run, but the only reason why the radio rate does not reduce the real value, to be said, during the contract period. It's very important. A kid's a very successful kid. Good job. That's one of the things we're going to try to promote. I really hope it will work, but I don't think it'll be possible to do even better with what RUSH is facing after this contract. I agree with the members of Congress who have spoken of the Golden Ark. There is an enormous amount of chemical that we need to place on a permanent digital structure. This is one of the things that has to do with the vision, this is a cost assessment, and then a decision is to be made to decide whether to do something about the project. I think it's clear that we can't let it pass in any way and keep our future people in touch. I really hope that it will be shown in the policy that the State Radio is going to be presented this year, how it should develop to the future, that it will be contained. [[The president calls.]] And that the Council sees fit to give proper support to the VOLV so that it can work properly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u62	A respectable president. Of course, in the broad political context, opinions about whether the State should run a multicenter or not vary. That's certainly interesting, but I think we can all agree that if we're going to have a national radio, television, a government medium, it makes no sense just to do it well, otherwise there's a natural waste of money. I feel that this service contract is evidence that people are thinking that they want to set ambitious goals. However, there have been things that have happened during this term and in recent years that make you suspicious of whether everyone on the same page is about whether we can make peace with the Kingdom News. The first thing that was done during the election season was to restore the government to politics. I thought it was a step backwards. I also felt very bad that since it was made political, not every group of the Generals has a representative in the government, so that is said at the outset. I hope this will be corrected by the next election, which will soon take place. At the very least, since the board is back political, it represents all views at the council. Besides, I've thought it was very bad what has been meant by the independence of the Agency, but the independence of the Agency is a key factor in its goodness, I think it's safe to say. It has been designed to further the independence of the Agency through a continuous roundabouts of funding to the Agency. This is very bad. This simply creates an atmosphere where politicians in positions of influence in this hall can systematically prevent the independence of the Agency and thus undermine it. It is a key factor when it comes to the media media in Iceland, and wherever else they may be, that it is a secure financial foundation, and it is open for many years, and that people can walk in it at all, in terms of government funds, and there is not much to be done about it. This has not been achieved during the election season, since a noble goal has not been reached. However, there is evidence in the Service Convention that the light was seen in this. It stipulates that budgetary donations for State Radio should not decrease real value compared with this year to 2019. That's good. While it is good for the financial perception and stability that they receive, the dark side is that it is there for 2016, which is, of course, a year when the radio rate was dropped. It's only a matter of taking pride in the service contracts. However, this is very important and indeed the most important thing that any member of the state media can get, i.e. sampleability of donations. When it comes to this, there are questions. It is said that the contributions from the state should not be lowered or that the radio fee should not be paid to the real value. I suppose it's based on a consumer science or something, but there's other factors involved. For example, whether donations to other institutions are raised or lowered is viewed as being viewed. What does it mean in this context? What is the significance of potential collective agreements made over the period? To cope with unexpected expenses is in itself no guarantee of the Kingdom Radio. Still, this is a positive step, and hopefully it does. Hopefully, donations will be visible to the State Radio in the coming years so as not to prevent the Agency's independence through all kinds of tactics at the Assembly Hall and all kinds of contributions to reduce the contribution from here. There is also another uncertainty factor with regard to financing, which is a special contribution to the purchase, 175 billion. As I understand it, there is no guarantee in the service contract that this contribution will be held. It is particularly bad for the independent producers of the country, the film industry, not being able to assume that this contribution will be annual out of contracts. This doesn't make sense like anything else. I like the deal in the form. He has clear goals. I think it is beneficial in that people should be able to look into it and see if they have achieved the goals that are good for national service, for the democratic role of the State TV, for the availability of everyone, for the Krakka-RUS that has been mentioned, and for various services we would like to perform. I'm particularly glad to include in the purchase of national products and productions of acting Icelandic material. I think this will become a development, and it has been the development in the neighboring countries that the share in Kingdom Media activities has grown very much and is in some countries, I think, in up to 30% of the total share in a member of the state media. That's what I think, obviously, will be the evolution and the blessing. We see a highly ambitious trend in neighboring countries, such as. in Denmark, where Danish national television produces a very cool material that is bought on a global scale. It is hoped that the National TV will also take place as a producer and a buyer in ambitious and good Icelandic material. No doubt that is the correct policy. So only about Goldkist RuV. This is a good name because in the old material on which the Kingdom Radio is on and that has been collected over the years, there is a treasure. I'm just a little worried about it. The service contracts require only some sort of cost assessment of what it takes to preserve all of this material and put it into digital shapes. I think there's a little postponing here. I think it's a terrible task, and time is our enemy in it. [[The president calls.]] This material is breaking down, and it would be horrible for the cultural heritage of the country if it did. [[The president calls.]] I think it's necessary to develop an interpolitian agreement to place these treasures, the gold coffin, in a digital shelter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u63	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the opportunity to discuss this service agreement. This contract is remarkable for many reasons, and it is of great interest to us, both in the work here and in those who use the services of RUS to work at RUS, to understand and go over and to understand what the Agency's purpose should be, so that we see here in what ways the role, duties, and scope of the work of the Kingdom News will be done in real life. It's important that when we're putting a lot of taxpayers on a project, we know what we're going to do with it. What are we going to get for that money, what is it that the taxpayers are really buying? This deal tells us. It's important, and it's fine. It is a pleasure to see the depth of our role in this contract. I have to say, there's quite a difference between the service contract we're talking about here and the previous one. We see here the emphasis and policy on how the Agency is to exercise itself and is the cultural function at the top of the list. It also discusses the P.R., which we have frequently discussed here in the Senate Hall, what is really involved in the role of RUS in public defense. The article will discuss this and assume that it is further established as to exactly what that role is and what we can expect from the Agency. While we who live in regions where natural conditions are imminent, we can appreciate the importance of having an institution like this, but we should also be able to make requirements for a certain service. It's a good thing this is an effort to define it even more. There is more that you can count the most important points in this contract. Many have established the role that The Kingdom Radio is designed to care for children. It is of particular interest that the Minister and the Agency should place special emphasis on the Icelandic material for children, in terms of 2.1.3 of the contract. Some might say that they should place more money and more emphasis on material things for children. In this hall, we have at times talked about the value of being in a small language area, having a small language, and thus an increased obligation to protect our tongue. We do so best by making sure that this country's youth is grown up in Icelandic language and is given an opportunity to watch Icelandic entertainment. Therefore, it is extremely important that this emphasis is so strong in this contract and is made clear that despite being cut down on the Agency, this should be maintained. It is also of great importance, as shown here, to increase the proportion of the Norwegian material in Our Kingdom News. We know that the emphasis on the dance tongue, so that it is taken in particular here, has been greatly reduced in Icelandic society. For one thing, we find it in the worldwide work the Parliament is participating in; there are not very many who are trusting in the use of Danish language. It's a retreat. While we are not offering material where you can practice in that fine language, the skills go back, you know them yourself. That's why this is an interesting crash in this contract. I believe that we can all be proud to discuss it in particular here. It has been spoken of as the Golden Ark of the Kingdom Radio, but in the future it is of utmost importance that this is taking place here in what should be done to preserve recordeds, films, footage, and other historical memories that certainly have great significance for our people. Everyone who has been watching RUSA this year and seeing the old gems being shown is interested in seeing more. Hence, how happy we are that the preservation is under way and that in the future, any report and any annual purchase will be available and that we will find out what the time of the event was. The whole deal is a great deal of joy. All of us are to be happy that this step is under way, to explain more fully the role of RUS, and to what is expected of the future. It's a bit surprising here in our discussion that people are unhappy and have expected us to see a contract where large amounts of money were promised into the business. I don't think it's the job of the Minister or the Agency to do a service contract like this. On the contrary. The task is to define the purpose of business, the type of service to be bought, and the emphasis to be given. That was the job of this contract. I believe the Minister and the Agency had a particularly successful success. It's going to be exciting and fun to watch how things work out together during the contract season.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u64	President. Of course, it is a pleasure to conclude a service contract three months after the last contract ended. The agreement is not all bad, even if that were so. The good about the contract has already been traced to other debates. The senators who spoke before me, so I intend to agree only with their words rather than repeat them. There's a few things in the contract, Mr. President, that I'd like to get to the top. A minister better realizes that misunderstandings can be prevented and that it is worthwhile to draw attention to. I'm asking what exactly does this one mean by permission of the President: For the sake of quality and professionalism, it is also assumed that the staff of the Kingdom News is acting by ethical standards and that the newsletters will be updated. In addition, neutrality is laid down in the newsroom and there are differences of viewpoints. I'd like to know if anything at the previous job calls for such emphasis, Mr. President. Why is it specifically stated that any material intended for children and young people is abstract, independent of political, ideological, and economic interests? Is there anything that specifically calls for this direction, Mr. President? Is this the case in some particular situation? I'm not the only one concerned about the freedom of expression that is reflected in the ethics of the MRV. For an explanation, I would like to refer to the words of President Jakob Grétarsson, son of Gretar: ▪ I'm not sure that people will be aware of what the criticism of these senseless moral standards is. Many fall automatically into one of the efficiency and defenses of the VOLV. And it is good for journalists to be polite and neutral. RUV staff are not necessarily the right people to be considered significant about this terror; the one that their companions used to screw together. The system flotation systems make people cohesive, and they mean it as different. In addition: This is not their personal matter. It's not about whether or not someone has screwed down Helgi Seljan, who's been doing anything he says, or that we're going to be of the fingers of the son of Eiríkur Guðmundsson, who I personally think is wrong. There's a lot more at stake here. People with news coverage, news coverage, and programs do not take a public position in discussions about political issues or controversial social issues, including community media. There are several of the most strange features, but this has attracted the most attention because it seems to contradict a constitution. There is a big difference between directing such recommendations to employees, provided the assumption is correct, and registering them in a formal code. Neutrality cannot include knocking down opinions or demanding that people have a purchrist with them. I am simply terrified of people who think, or just think nothing at all, by such means. A fundamental factor, if there is to be a trace of knowledge in this discussion, is that it is possible to distinguish between journalists' personal opinions and such professional practices. The news and coverage should be found, not in things that were said, for example, at one time or another on Facebook. Unfounded criticism, based on delusions and ignorance, is valid; those who are in trouble always begin to question the subject of journalism. Now it's a slow game. I think this is a very dangerous trend. I don't like this requirement from the Ministry on Moral Orders and the way they were handled. Perhaps because of what I quoted from my first talk and is associated with the code of morality. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of education, which I know is a broad-minded man, if he doesn't think it's a dangerous journey. I'd also like to get into the digital self- suRU and the disappointments I've felt, that this digital self is not more difficult to build, whether it's a digital aspect of the web and the Kingdom News Service, which has been done for a long time, and then it's not to be used in the Gold Box. It is simply sad, and putting it off is a dangerous cultural heritage. Already, much of our culture has been lost, which was stored at RUSH because it was simply damaged. I'm worried that it should not be given, and I want to know why it is not given more emphasis. I've had a conversation with the highest. Minister on the importance of the Golden Ark and digital services of the RUS. I have always heard that we agree, so I am surprised to learn that a minister who is very interested in culture and a minister of culture should not be more concerned with preserving our old culture. I would also like to direct those interested in examining different viewpoints regarding this contract to consider conclusions from the Hollves of the Kingdom Radio, which I think is important to me. I'm sorry, I don't have time to trace it here, but it's on Facebook page. I encourage as many as most of those who love the State Radio to make themselves concerned about that subject through the Kingdom Radio Holvinian Association.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u65	A respectable president. I want to thank you first in this discussion. Education Minister for bringing into the council a service contract with the State Radio for the first time. I think it is very important that a discussion of a service contract be held at the Assembly Hall, and this is a fixed position on him and on the highest level. Minister will hear it. I think this is also important to free the State Radio from the wolf crisis of political conflict that has marked the setting for this terms. We have to talk about things the way they are. The government radio has been equipped with organized mobbing from within the governments. I'm not gonna put on the top. The Minister of Education in that group, and I'm not putting all the council members in that group, but the dominant groups have presented themselves in a totally unacceptable way to the State Radio. Now that The Kingdom News has played a key role in informing about the financial information of government officials that were to be carried out, we will see even more clearly the importance of free and powerful media in the country and how immensely important it is to protect the State Radio. In the first part of this discussion, I think I teach in the speeches' speeches' speeches' speeches' speech, a tone of a different tone, a completely different tone of the State Radio than has been in the discussions of the past few years. I'm going to allow myself to hope that it is a good thing and that the forces that have focused on the hate campaign against the Government Radio within the institutions have now been turned down. I'm gonna let me hope so. The discussion has only dealt with the code of ethics and their behavior, and I want to emphasize that the Kingdom News is protected from discussions of the kind that has been dominant in political affairs in recent years in the future. The way to do that, I think, is, as I've already planned from this talk chair, that the State Radio will be covered with international protection, i.e. that international institutions, such as Danmarks Radio or BBC, from there, sit with the National Focal Points, and prepare by their ethics but also show that the procedure held by the Government Radio or BBC is in accordance with internationally acceptable standards and neutrality and thus, in effect, defend the Government Guide for Spiritual Violence, as it has been brought to bear under the rule of the governments in recent years. A respectable president. I emphasize that this contract is evidence of the admirable ambition and innovation that we have seen in the Kingdom News program on recent losses, clear policy that I think is very important. Perhaps three factors, as discussed here so much; national playwrights, programs for children, which, of course, are essential for the hearing of children living in a totally different global digital environment than children lived ten years ago, to be no further back in time, and third, the reporting of the country. How important it is to underline the importance of the budget of the Kingdom News, where we are in the position of government support at the highest level! A minister of finance against the insurrection of the laws of his own administration, that it is obvious that financing is not sufficient to find these emphasis adequate reflection in the future program. In the coming years, we will see a significant decrease in the schedule, and this is best evident in the Service Treaty when referring to the conditional contribution of more than 175 million, in other words, a unique contribution is defined in the contract that if it falls, the duties of the Kingdom Hall will fall to the game program. There is nothing better to show that the current budget is not sustainable. That's why I want to encourage the highest. A minister of education continues to impress on other aspects of this financial development. Let us support him in financing a business frame for the Government Radio, which enables him to carry out this vital task. I think the Agency has shown a strong interest in taking over all delirium and fixing everything that has gone wrong. There's no way we have anything to report to the Agency anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u66	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a service contract at the highest. Minister and State Radio ohf. for the media services in the public service for 2016-2019. I want to thank you very much. Minister for this overview and opportunity we have here to discuss this important agreement. I'm going to study and discuss the contract in relation to the law and bring out what's significant in it. Yet, as noted in many debates, he is the most extensive and positive thing to talk about. Councilmen, that it must be gleaned chiefly. Two. the Act on the State Radio is discussed on holding and the multimedia contract in the public service. On the basis of that legal arrangement, this contract is made. For one thing, it says that in a contract, there are goals, roles, duties, and scopes in the work, according to Article 1 and 3. The law. It should also include the financing of the media in the public sector during the entire contract period. I'd like to say about financing that according to Article 14. The budget is secure and consistent there, but it is new in contracts that the budget should keep its real value in the period compared to 2016. That is a very positive, extra legal note, which I find to be a source of strength to me in the contract. The code of the Law provides a clear basis for the contract, an important basis for such agreements. In 1st. The law discusses the role of the State Radio and says that its objective is to promote democratic discussions, cultural diversity, and social cohesion. It also says that the State Radio is committed to a project as detailed in the law. I wanted to point out that, indeed, the purpose and role are elevated, but at the same time, it is very thoughtful and it is not unusual that in the political field, there is often a debate that has to do with publicity, the role is so demanding and broad. In such a contract, the materials, the production, the information, the media and the type of media are tested, and especially the type of operation. This should be taken into account in terms of the exorcisms and changes that are in this market. You can see this in Leviticus. The law that deals extensively with the roles and duties, the public service, the democratic role, the cultural role and professional practice, our requirements for professional activities. The law emphasizes the general role of transport to all the people regardless of their population, that material should be distributed with at least Two TV programs and one TV program, and then it's the security part. It also stipulates the preservation of materials, focusing on historic and cultural values. The quality of the contracts is quite well stated. News, news, news, art, cultural, and material for children and young people should be featured there. I'm going to be especially happy about the importance of material for children and family material in the contract. Second, I'm going to discuss the democratic role and how it is handled in the law. It's a little subjugated in principle beyond what is laid down in the contract itself, but the objective factor I think I have to draw out here. The contract assumes for the first time active internal monitoring and focus on quality, which is very interesting, as the Government Government Guideline is set out to set rules requiring such monitoring of neutrality and fairness. I think there's a very significant step here. With regard to culture, I'd like to say, of course, there are a lot under there; the tongue, the history, the legacy, and nature. I think it's important in the contract that there's an increased cooperation with the film center and the independent producers of the Icelandic game footage. When we consider that democratic roles and practices, there is no other way to say that much effort is made in the contract to meet that legal requirement. These include the moral code of staff of the State Radio, who are foreshadowed by the dance TV. In addition, there is clear evidence of the internal quality check I've been in before. I'm running out of time. I'm going to take out the men who's worthy to mention, like VOLV photos. The country's calendar is strengthened, loyal, and preservation and sharing of older materials, and it's my highest priority. Minister to complete this case as required in the contract. I'd like to say at the end that I've tried to dismiss this contract from law on goals and roles. I welcome the new words here, which have fallen for the National Radio to continue fulfilling its role as independent and professional medium. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u67	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a service contract. Secretary of Education and Culture on State Radio until 2019. Sadly, this service contract is a maximum cut-off contract. The minister of education and culture decides to reduce funds to the public media owned by the public and public. It is tragic that no more is said, especially during times when there is a great need for informed and careful community talk and news coverage. A respectable president. I am well aware that the budget has been set for the State Radio budget for the year, but at the service contract we address, it is therefore not even declared on the part of a minister that he is willing or interested in securing additional funding for the general media. That would have been the best. In the contract, a minister could do and at the same time show that his opposition, which he declared on the reduction of RUS's nose tax, would have been real opposition, that he was actually with the public media and would fight for a sure profit. There are other things I consider critical in the Minister's Service Convention on the State Radio. Among other things, it is how politicians and thus the highest. A minister himself has the direct service contract with new ethics for the press and the news agency. I think that's very dangerous. The most healthy would be that political administration and executives, and/or other government officials, such as Minister himself, had no interference with the newspaper code. I would rather ask the newsmates to write their own code and best, if I may suggest an idea of the process, that the main ethic and media experts would be there. Another thing I want to draw attention to, and unfortunately, I don't think good enough in this service contract is that it has an earmark total of 175 million for its own production of TVs or for the preservation of production. Naturally, the secretary's decision was protested by all the directors of the State Radio. Although it's a good decision to support national television and films, it's my opinion that it's due to come from other budgets rather than in the conditional monopolies. Would it not have been better to support more fully the production of the Kingdom News done by the staff working there and being one of the most important workplaces in televisionmaking? What does this mean about the security of the people who work at television production? Finally, I want to mention what I find positive in this service contract, which is the focus of the Icelandic material for children. As most of us know, that's the title of that service by Krakka-RUS. There I feel that the stage is a very important step in ensuring the choice of quality television programs for young people. I believe that the director of the radio has the greatest honor, and I thank him very much for the emphasis and protection. There are also others who deserve to be thanked, that is, staff of the state radio. A great deal of gratitude is due for perseverance and effort in the time of the cuts and notices of the current government; for having resisted the attacks that have been directed against them from all sides of the council. RUSV staff: Thank you so much for carrying our quality media in difficult working conditions. Let's hope we see a better time for the State Radio in our immediate future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u68	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The Minister of Education and Culture for bringing in a report on this contract and giving us a chance to discuss it. I welcome this deal very much. He guarantees how the European Commission intends to conduct and comply with the laws and decisions made here at the General Assembly and how the funds provided by the Parliament will be prioritised according to conditions established by the Parliament. The good in this contract with previous contracts is that it increases the transparency of taxpayers'funds and how the Kingdom News will play its role. I think it's very important that you have something on the table to say how to spend the money of the taxpayers that the General decides to protect at each category, that the owner has something to say about how his organisations and businesses use it. That's very good. I'm particularly glad that internal Affairs and quality are secure, but it's a little committed to the company itself and the employees to implement it. A great deal of this has been discussed that there is not enough money to care for these roles. Of course, it's Generalis to decide how much money goes to the Agency and on certain aspects of events. But it seems to me that the State Radio has succeeded in promoting its activities and making more peace with them on the basis of its products and its operations, it has been done by the development of chemical production to its independent manufacturers, and by increasing emphasis on the ability and content of the material for children and their families. It has been achieved in spite of what men have wanted to do, that funding has been added -- I think, in fact, it may have increased a little. By placing as much emphasis as this is, and define the work, you can reach the goals and make better use of the funds. I think this deal is good for that. Then we need to take the discussion elsewhere about the arrangements we want on our Kingdom publisher.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u69	A respectable president. I would like to thank you for taking this matter on the agenda as well as thank you. Congress members for the participation in the discussions that I believe have been useful and that they have improved some of the factors involved in this agreement. First, I would like to take the part of the discussion that has been involved in the financing of the State Radio. I think it's very important to keep in mind that the budget we have for the State Radio is so that the Alduke Fundament Authority is fundamental. It is not possible in a contract like this to put in front of the Council. As a result, there is no greater guarantee than they can make of the regulations already set out on the Government Radio, which will be laid out in the amount of a 16400k radio fee. Then there is a set of regulations that will keep true, but also regulations that if this does not happen, we need to take up the contract and consider the duties and tasks assigned to the State Radio to solve in the light of less money, or more, depending on events, than this agreement was expected to take place. Not to be overlooked, nor is it possible, for example, to call for a minister to show his will or to expect an increase in money or a declaration of some kind of will for more money or money to State TV. There is a ridiculous approach in my opinion, a respectable president, I must allow myself to say so, because this is a contract based on the law and will of the Council, the General Assembly, about the amount of money to be spent on the state radio. The government can't take out its first hand on the budget, that's obvious. I would like to say this, in view of both the insurance regulations, the radio bill itself, and then the special contribution that the Council decided by law that it would bring to the State Radio, 175 million, would follow a description of the council rather than from me as a minister. It is the General who decides that this should be directed to a particular aspect of the operation. Therefore, this factor is being maintained, i.e. This 175 million, that if the Council decides not to extend it, it is only natural that the factor that the Council itself had for that purpose be reduced. That's how it's thought, a respectable president. Of course, thewedding Authority is at the council. This, however, opens up another discussion that I think is good for you to take, for example. Danir has the budget for financing on the dance radio, how it's done. We might ask ourselves, " Do I want to take up a similar arrangement in the future? ' Another point that came up, and I want to discuss it, and I've been in a conversation in a public field turning to the code and code of ethics. - I'm sorry, Mr President, I'd like to shoot in one thing before I get to them, it's about the Gold Box thing. There is no postponement. It is merely acknowledging that in this contract money cannot be distributed beyond the amount of money available on the part of the Generalis and on the proposed basis of a plan for the cost of transporting this cultural material into a digital form. Then a special decision must be made on the basis of that assessment. It is not ambitious or postponement of the project. It is simply being directed into the natural course. In terms of ethics and other matters that were specifically directed to me and why it was and why it was spoken of neutrally for children or for the general news agency, I would like to say that it is normal in view of the law on neutrality and objective of the State TV that it is required in the contract. That's what they've been doing over the years. I give a witness to the agreement made on May 24, 2011, which specifically includes news and programs that should be reasonable and objective in reporting, interpretation and implementation, and that democratic principles, human rights and freedom to word and opinion should be maintained, etc. It's not written for any particular reason, it's only natural that this is the way it is stated in such a service contract, as we do in the contract signed on April 5, recently. It is certainly new in children's matters that special children's news is being offered. Of course, there must be same rules on that report as there are other news messages in the Kingdom News, normal. As for the code of ethics, I'd like to say this, a respectable president. It has been made clear that it was a radio director who took the initiative in the fall of 2014 to eliminate these rules. He specifically suggested that the staff win the rules. It is the staff itself that lays the groundwork on them and looks at them, among other things, the rules that apply to public radios in other countries and in the United Kingdom. I know that many experts were being assigned to the project, and they called for, among other things, lecturers and specialists from the Institute of Moralology and others to help employees in the work. I've been feeling pretty sorry about how this has been discussed and utterly absurd to make the shoes so much that it's my special demand or my lecture from the Ministry of Education. Here are the personnel of the Kingdom Radio, doing a very useful job that is to be celebrated as they set out in a moral code that harmonizes with what happens to other public radios around us and we compare ourselves with them. Then, March 22 of the past, the code went into effect. Then I'd like to point out that this deal was signed April 5th. I've heard nothing other than that the code of ethics and that it harmonizes with what humans know in the countries around us. That's why I've found something special to hear about them and I've found it quite unfortunate, because I believe that there is a very remarkable and positive contribution from the employees of the Kingdom News. Finally, I'd like to say and agree with what has been said here about the government of the United Kingdom and staff having done a very good job in recent times, we lose control of difficult business, certainly. I believe that the new and current emphasis on buying material or obtaining material from external sources, from this service contract, is all to promote the State's cultural role, its content and all the elements that the TV is designed to achieve under law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u70	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize foreigners. This suggests a complete change in foreigners'law, No. 96/2002. Achieving agreement is an adjustment to the legal rights of foreigners, No. 97/2002. The bill is a product of a transopelist commission composed in the spring of 2014 by a former Minister of the Interior, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir. The primary objective of the review was primarily two aspects. On the one hand, the goal was to ensure the humanitarian and efficient treatment of the government of foreigners. The bill contains the rightness and the security of foreigners who come to the country and intend to stay here. Then the bill gives further permission to monitor the arrival of foreigners into the country and provides the basis for international protection by foreign citizens and nonpolitical individuals entitled by international commitments. However, the objective of the revision was to change existing legislation so that there could be a better way to live in Iceland than before would be compatible with the needs of society and competitiveness of a international bison. In recent years the competition for qualified workers has greatly increased. There are various rules and procedures in current legislation and regulations that have been considered to be inhibitory for Icelandic companies in this competitive competition and particularly for experts and special staff. At the same time as the proposed tax returns to foreign experts, it is also important to consider how individuals arrived in Iceland and how to simplify and facilitate the access of foreign experts here, whether to stay for a short or long time. Many members, institutions, interests, and human rights organizations came to prepare the bill, as well as to cooperate well with the staff of the Foreign Institutes of Iceland, the Work Programme and the Ministry of Health. The committee under the front Óttar. Proppér In addition to consulting a number of experts in various fields, officials of the police and the border, experts on the issues of children and families and representatives of the educational and scientific community. The main purpose of the work and consultation was to seek out the different opinions of the stakeholders who felt the need for changes in current foreigners. I especially want to thank you. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, Hannah, to take this issue into consideration. I thank all those guys. Council members who participated in the work of the Committee for their contributions and for those who shared in their work. I really hope that we will succeed in continuing to cooperate in the seminary. This is a growing group of subjects dealing with difficult and delicate issues. They require responsible, balanced decisions that can have a profound impact on the lives and prospects of people in the community. It is vital that the council be able to discuss these matters in a calm and collective way. The commission returned the Minister to the bill last November. Since then, the Ministry's experts have been working on several changes in the bill, which focus primarily on dealing with the refugee problem and in harmony with the changing laws in neighboring countries. There have never been more refugees in the world. It will continue to be on the watch how Iceland can and must at any given time re-evaluate laws and rules in harmony with developments. For different reasons, some 60 million people have fled their homeland and are on a global run according to the United Nations Refugee Organization. We face very unusual situations, and we need to do what we can to build a just and efficient system to cope with them. For one thing, it is a challenge to tell whether an applicant is fleeing armed conflict or personal persecution and therefore is not safe to return to his country or whether the applicant for international protection is primarily in search of a better standard of living but at the same time safe to return to his country. Our mission is to ensure a just, reasonable, human - looking system for each matter. The neighboring countries have been considering their definitions and priorities better than before. We see additional rules for those who are not refugees, as defined by the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees. Protection on the basis of international commitments is an emergency system established to protect people who escape persecution or who are armed with conflict. A respectable president. The world's problem is that nations can only deal with the most dire circumstances and do what they can to get people to safety. At the same time, countries have had to issue faster applications of those who are not entitled to international protection, since they are not fleeing armed conflicts or persecution. It is our responsibility to protect the emergency system and provide the protection needed. At the same time, we need to send a clear message to those who want to use this emergency system despite being safe in their own country. We do so, among other things, by means of a more rapid and efficient trial. It is very important to make sure that the system is present for those who really need it. V.E.G. President. We have not been part of the growth of applications on international protection across Europe. Like neighboring nations, we have responded to that trend by changing legislation, including those in the United States. by simplifying the application and payment system, increasing the treatment period and clear proceedings. International level has a great change in the water that is hard to determine how the wind comes along, whether it is the Schengen Compatibility or the Committee to Reevaluate. In such a case, it is important that we render adequate service and that the funds provided are well used. The bill suggests adjustments that contribute to more efficient and better service to foreigners. As mentioned earlier, this applies to foreign specialists in labour markets, students, scholars and scientists, international protection candidates and others. In order for such goals to be met, the Governing Body must remain in active cooperation with one another as well as with those involved, as well as a firm review and flexibility, in order to meet the democratic development, change and pattern of people's movements in the world, economic progress, status and needs of work markets, national security, and conditions in the international community. Among the key recommendations in the bill from current law are the better defined role of the government associated with the media, including the role of the National Institute of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Affairs, and Refugees Committee. Compatibility is increased between rights that can be obtained by individuals on the basis of the laws concerning foreigners and the legal procedures of foreigners. The key point here is to facilitate foreigners'communications with the Icelandic government and reduce complexity. Business and industrial organizations have long referred to changes, both alien and professional rights laws, from the viewpoint of a professional life that has a great interest in attracting foreign experts to build up international knowledge. The same can be said of university, education, and research. The development of commercial life in Iceland is becoming increasingly complex. Thus, it may be necessary to recruit abroad temporarily special foreign workers to care for specific assignments and to provide knowledge for the Icelanders. Such knowledge sharing is also designed to increase the knowledge and competitiveness of Icelandic employment in international comparison. An important factor in ensuring Iceland's competitiveness is that governments help to draw that expertise into Icelandic employment and university society. To do so, we try to make changes in the bill. The factors related to meeting the needs of employment, employment markets and university and science are primarily responsible for changing employment and rights and conditions. For example, even if a person is in the country where there is a work permit, a clear license is granted. That's a lot of basic stuff. Then there are various changes to the rights and rights of living people. A leave of choice due to expertise is provided for two years instead of one. Increased flexibility is provided due to a partner's employment license and a student's license for long periods of time. Once a student has finished studying, he is given time to apply for work in the country. There is also greater scope for those who come here on the basis of expertise in such cases when they do not have to sign into the country and take income in the country. It is suggested in the bill to set up a quick payment of applications in certain cases, to name just a few. A special section is provided on the basis of family agreements, as well as on the increase of such residences. It is not a dilation of current sources of law. It is now to ensure that there is a better source for living according to its purpose. Increased emphasis is placed on child rights. For one thing, it is stated in specific requirements for child rights, according to international commitment, a definition of what is best for a child, the right of children to associate with their parents, an attempt is made to ensure clear protection for children, including children. under the order of a interests officer, as well as the dates rules of dating and the follow-up of children, are reviewed. The chapters on international protection have been revised and updated in accordance with international, European and North American developments. Then changes are suggested to the NTSB to ensure increased efficiency and shortening of the court treatment period. Decisions made by the National Institute of Iceland are proposed to be made as soon as possible in the case of rejection in candidates coming from secure states and therefore applications are considered unfounded by reference to the UN footmen's agreement. The bill includes adjustments that will help the Icelandic government to better meet their international commitments by implementing certain agreements. These include regulations regarding the statelessness that ensures the right of independent individuals to international protection. It is part of the implementation of contracts for the legal status of citizens of the state of 1954 and a contract to reduce the loss of citizenship from 1961. In addition, several changes have been made so that Iceland has better met the Istanbul Convention on Women's Violence. The bill includes further provisions for the requisite centre for international protection and after incidents for foreigners in an illegal stay or by the human sanctum. It aims to increase the security and human rights of candidates for international protection. At that centre, the cooperation of various parties, the Foreign Institute, police, members of society, child - welfare authorities and social services, health authorities and others who need to be involved in the affairs of candidates. The idea is that candidates for global protection can get the necessary services in one place, including medical care, but it may be important to support the case of candidates if they are to develop a sweet or disrespectful treatment. Similarly, if a suspect is suspected of being a threat of international protection, the government will have to be able to act in order to take action and assume that such an assessment will be carried out at the centre. This centre should be an advantage for candidates on international protection and should ensure that their human rights are cared for. It should be noted that in addition to the contributions made by this bill, the Ministry is involved in various services designed to support and promote the Foreign Institute and Foreign Affairs with special emphasis on the rapid management of applications for international protection. Although not everyone is bound to law change, the bill is a very important part of this work, including In regard to the work of the non - Israelites in charge. They are building partnerships with members who come by assessment and analysis of candidates for international protection; police, international transport agency, IOM, rural communities, the Red Cross and the Icelandic botanist organisation. V.E.G. President. In August of the last year following a press conference, the bill was presented to the Ministry's Web site, where key stakeholders who had participated in active consultations with the publication of the bill were offered. After considering the facts, the committee gave the minister a formal report. As a result, work began at the end of the bill and an examination of the development of legislation in the North countries and the work at its final output. Last December, the bill was reinvigorated to the Ministry Web, and again it was given time to comment. Thus, in order to ensure that there would be adequate, careful coverage and needed response and comments, the bill was twice published on the Ministry's Web. The Ministry has since prepared the comments that have been received. A respectable president. A review of the laws of foreigners is urgent, and it is a fundamental premise that any agreement can prevail over the tribunal. As noted earlier, new legislation must take into account the needs of Icelandic society in terms of economic growth, an increased demand for international competition, as well as the need to ensure humane and effective government management in the affairs of foreigners. We have a good job to hold on to this party for the next few years, and a key premise for success is good cooperation with all concerned partners. A respectable president. I have concluded my case and suggest that the bill be referred to at the highest level. General and Education Committee and Relations 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u71	Mr. President. I wish to the highest. Minister to congratulate you on reaching the point of presenting the bill here. Her testimony for the case was excellent. I'm not going to ask her about technical issues involving the bill itself. I know them well, and I don't expect a minister to know all of them. But there is one thing I'd like to ask her, i.e. certain change to the maximum. The minister, or government, made up from the Commission's proposals. That change is 6 mg. 45. g. The bill is suggested that a minister be authorized to set specific rules as the limit of family unity, and it is specifically stated that a set period of six months can be set. Mr. President. I strongly doubt that this is the right thing to do, and I strongly doubt that this accords with the European Convention, which is specifically referred to in Article 8. in which the right to have a home and a family is clearly defined. I'm asking the highest. Minister: What are some reasons why this change was made from the Commission's proposal? [[The president calls.]] Second: Tells you the highest. Ministers really that this will pass the terms of the Convention of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u72	V.E.G. President. I am confident that even though the matter has been worked on in the great peace it has been made - and I want to thank you for it - there are always some things that humans can have different opinions. Of course, the work at the council is ahead. The reason for this change was primarily the development of lawmakers in the countries around us. This has been my opinion, and this applies to both of these legislation, including Schengen, the development there, and that is true of the Dublin Protocol. I believe that it is very important that our legislation is basically in agreement with what is in our neighboring countries. We are confident that this is all right. We wouldn't have done this unless we thought it would be okay to do this. I know some would have wanted to go further than we do in this case; I wasn't ready to do it. As I say, this may always be a matter of opinion, but number one, two, and three: this is where we're following the development of lawmakers, and I second that I believe that this sort of case would be wise for us to follow in the North countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u73	Mr. President. Then I must pray to the highest. Minister of the state to tell me which of the North are the people who have adopted this in their legislation. As a result, I, like many members of the council sitting here, enjoyed the privilege of working in the work group that worked on the bill. There we were informed of it, or I understood it so that it had not been recorded in any law, but in one country it was being discussed. According to my opinion, I read it only in the English language, it did not go as far as this warrant could do. That's why I say, "I want an explanation for why the government changed several important things. " That doesn't mean I'm going to disappear from my support of the case, but I wish the board would take this very seriously. V.E.G. A minister has to tell me what country this is because we were not informed about it and we had access to the best experts. Second, you must be able to face yourself. For many reasons, this hurts my sense of justice. That's why I have to ask the highest. Again: Is she convinced that this will not conflict with the individual's rights and is protected by the European Convention of Human Rights, in order to have a family and a home? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u74	V.E.G. President. Of course, the Ministry has also been in contact with the North countries because of these changes. I'm not going to stand here, and I'm not going to tell myself exactly what the outcome would be in the future, I'm not going to. But as I understand this matter, men who have happened to know that it's not gone too far. These suggestions have been discussed in both Sweden and Finland and in other ways. I realize that this is one of the factors people will want to take a good look at. I suppose that's what the committee's going to do. I also emphasize that this law is a security valve. This is not a principle. It's a security valve, which, according to the Ministry Department's opinion, was the right thing to have on the bill. Again: In fact, I believe the development of foreign lawmakers will remain in the next few losses. I'm not going to tell myself that there could be any more changes later. [[The president calls.]] But that's how we put it on account of the Ministry, considering what's going on in the countries around us. I reiterate that I think it's wise in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u75	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity to make my wish. The Minister of the Interior Minister is happy to have provided a bill for a comprehensive review of the current alien law, and he also wants to use this opportunity and to celebrate in my part that this bill is being developed. Inevitably, the group seeking international protection has received the most attention during the past few weeks and months, but I would like to ask the minister specifically about the factors involved. In what sector does the minister believe that the changes presented here will have the most impact, and who will be able primarily to make use of the changes put there?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u76	V.E.G. President. I think the part of the bill that was. In fact, a senator makes it possible for a subject to be useful throughout his secular life and especially in the college community. I think it may be important to research and development, both when we consider innovation companies, knowledge companies, and generally in college research. So, in fact, I think it might matter here and there, with reference to what I heard a few days ago, that even travel services look to these changes with positive eyes. I am convinced that this factor will matter. It's something I know that the Senate has been interested in for a long time. What a fine result it is to be able to offer these suggestions! Of course, the bill is a multihead, so to speak, and this aspect of the bill is also important, even though the rest is really much more serious and heavier undertone in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u77	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I'd rather ask about the interaction of employment rights and housing and what is really involved in the changes it suggests or harmonizes with and what this will do to the foreigners who apply for employment licenses or visas. I'd also like to ask about what the Minister of Internal Affairs came on and turned to the Istanbul Convention, the fight against violence against women and domestic violence, how that contract's implementation affects the regulations of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u78	A respectable president. Of course, there are a number of principles in the bill that are developing in current rights or an explanation of current rights, of course also many of which are very important. The thing that floats over the lakes in the bill, and I think the most interesting thing is that we're trying to get together on one side is to have a system that works well, and that's to our credit as soon as we have the ability to value human rights. It is this harmony that I think has been especially successful in the work of the Committee, which is the basis for the case. What turns to that as a matter of course. A senator asks that I especially feel that men can be in the country when they reach for employment permit. That is a fundamental change from what we now know, that is not the case today, and it has been highly criticized. I think that change is going to be enormously important. We can only look at the marriage partners in our area and, for example, take advantage of these changes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u79	President. Thank you very much. Minister of advance and congratulate him on this day. There are all steps that are important to the long expedition we are in together that is improving the alien law in Iceland. The progress on the final meters has been closed in the hands of the Committee. We returned to the minister in November, and then we saw the bill these days, as well as in excellent presentations by the Ministry, and had to understand that some changes have been made in the case. I'd like to stop especially at one adjustment that allows me to reevaluate the applications of an unsupervised child when a child becomes 18 years old. I believe the change is completely delirium and is not in the spirit the bill has been written in, i.e. In the spirit of humanity and human rights. He must be considered very clever as the tone that is struck, to reevaluate the status of children at 18 years of age when they have an early assessment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u80	A respectable president. Actually, I think there's more than one pair of glasses to look at. I also think it's a security system for the baby, if we look at it from that direction. I think it is even more important to do so when we appreciate this provision. Other than that, I say of the changes the Ministry suggested: I did not sit on the excellent committee that built the basis for this, but I still think that some of the points later presented were discussed in the work of the Committee. However, the main purpose of the changes proposed and displayed in this bill is the rapid development in the affairs of foreign legislation over the past few months. It is not limited to this matter. We will see that more things will be changed. [[The president calls.]] As I told you before, we know that the Dublin Protocol is being revised, and Schngern is under intense air attacks. I think for us who believe in this system, because that's what I do, it was important to follow carefully those neighboring countries who believe exactly what we believe. [[The president calls.]] It's in the light of what the bill looks like on our account.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u81	President. We are here on one of the factors, so to speak, in the development of this case. Of course, we want to see this matter become a law. I think it's very important that it happens this spring. V.E.G. Ministers repeatedly refer to legislation in the North. It is not as if we of the Council of Congress were all unknown to the national legislation, but we attempted to be in good shape. The rhythms did not begin when the case came along, as ministers, but we were dealing with the Norwegian legislation. At the same time, we realized that the Norwegian legislation is, at its present rate, fire, i.e. It is mobile and reflects the changes that are taking place in the media all over Europe. In view of that, I'd like to ask the highest possible question. Minister: Do we want to take the lead in this issue of humanity and human rights? Or do we want to stand back and do what others do?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u82	V.E.G. President. It is far from me to say that this committee has not been very well informed on all national legislation. I want to be completely explained that I'm fully aware of that. But, hey. In fact, in August, August, September, October, and November last year, a senator knows as well as I do about it, and he will continue to do so. I sincerely wish that we could complete this matter together. I know the matter is now being treated at the council, and there's talk of it. But I think that it will be this way for the next few years that in view of the changes that will occur, there will always be small laws on this legislation. I agree with that. A senator, and that's what I said in contrast to earlier, that we want to keep this balance between being with a system that's okay--now that's what I'm saying, that's what we're doing - and keeping the groups that come here from war - torn areas and having the right to be here, that it's done in a decent way, and guided by humanity. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u83	A respectable president. This is a significant stage and a full reason to congratulate on the fact that on the table of the council a noble total law is about as important, yet at the same time a delicate party like the one discussed. As noted in the case of what? In response to the minister's objections, there will be unique reasons for reasoning and exchange in the case, but no one would know that the objective of the bill is good and the need is urgent. An example of how they tried to achieve a tripolitic solidarity in the construction of the bill, and for the most part they succeeded. That is why I also believe that all of us feel a responsibility to offer the matter well at the council. There are other basics to this very day's discussion. [[The president calls.]] But I wanted to get the Minister on top of the administrative committee. [[The president calls.]] In the bill, it is assumed that the entire outdoor existence of the group will be at the hands of one institution, the National Institute of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How does it feel to the minister that perhaps thinking it a little different, including the minister? On the basis of another bill that lies before the council today for a fugitive's agent? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u84	V.E.G. President. I'd like to say it first because of a word. A senator that I, like all members of Congress, hope that the council will have opportunity, time, and space to discuss this matter deeply. I'd like to say from this chair that it has been relevant for the minister of this difficult group in this difficult year, who has been a great challenge and has been difficult to deal with, to feel that the council is following closely, and is interested in and deeply involved in their affairs. It is priceless for the execution of such things. Hv. A senator specifically asks about the founder's Wall. I think it's absolutely necessary, and it's my experience that we need to provide better for those institutions that deal with these issues. We need to do so by giving them the money they need. I don't think we've had enough room to feed these institutions, I think. I suppose these changes make a great deal of the good. [[The president calls.]] They are all bushed by members of the Parliament, and they are extremely important. [[The president calls.]] Of course, there are other factors, and that will undoubtedly be the next, but I think it's a huge foundation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u85	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more than that. Ministers that it is very important to cherish the institutions to care for the seminary and to enable them to fulfill their role. However, a point in this could be to reevaluate and consider whether the role of the existing institutions may contradict one another. What I think needs to be considered in this matter is that the U.S. National Institute has a legal role, you can say, a surveillance and police role, while protecting the interest and assistance of refugees is a bit different, another aspect, and perhaps not quite normal that it is at hand of one and the same agency to take care of both. I hope the board's in charge. The General and Education Committee and the Minister will join the movers of the bill on refugees' agent and will consider this with an open mind. [[The president calls.]] I think this may be a very important thing because I think we share because we want to do it well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u86	V.E.G. President. I have no doubt in my mind the will of all of us to do so. I would also like to mention another phenomenon in a relationship that has proved extremely important in the affairs of foreigners, especially those who come here for asylum, and that is the Red Cross. The Red Cross has played a key role in helping and helping those who have come here without roads, so I think we also need to look to what we have and to keep our arms on it. There is also a red thread in this bill that the work of the Red Cross is a little down. But I figure out exactly which direction the Senator brings it. As soon as we need to be orderly so that people know where they stand, all need to know, we need to pay attention to our heart. That's what's most difficult about this party, that these two must hold their hand through the whole process.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u87	A respectable president. I want to open my speech by wishing to the highest. Minister of the Interior, congratulations on offering this bill. It's wishful, and I agree with one another. Congress members who have spoken before, that we will prosper at the end of this important matter during this council. It has been a great privilege and a great deal of experience for me in many ways to work on this matter during the past few years and to conduct a Senate committee representing all the political parties at the General Assembly. I kind of feel obliged at this point to thank you for the opportunity to participate in that work, and I thank my comrades. The members of Unnur Konráðsdóttir Congisdóttir, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Aggitir Skarphéðinsson, Svandís of Spísís Savísdóttir, and Birgitta Jónsdóttir, are very good and that I want to mean married business. There is also good reason to thank the highest degree. Minister of the state, as well as the former Supreme Minister. I.A.S. Marshals, huh? paritaprevir Ögmundur the son of Jónasson, who started work in the last terms of terms, which in many respects provided the basis for the work that we see here and then. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, who started the Senate Committee. The House of Nations has since received loyal assistance from members of the Ministry of State, but also from the Department of Health and the National Institutes of Iceland and Work and has had a very good, satisfying and married partnership with the university community, the professional life, with members of the Red Cross, etc. There is every reason for me to thank you very much for this pleasant cooperation. The bill that looks on here today is a general review of a very broad and complex group of languages. The title, the law on foreigners, sets up thoughts, depends on what people are thinking, whether they are looking at professional life, or whether they are looking at what refugees are dealing with. The fact is, though, that this is an overall view of legislation that is very relevant in many areas. When the Senate Committee began work, it was a partnership on the Committee that we would put ourselves with a kind of guide in this work, on the other hand, on the competitiveness of the country, the efficiency of those who must use our systems, the foreigners who come to Iceland for many reasons and efficiency within the system to handle these matters in a just and efficient way and on the human rights and to look particularly at and follow what is best done in the countries that we aim for, elsewhere in the North and European countries, and to fulfill the duties of Iceland in international agreements, such as the European Convention of Human Rights, Children's Convention, the UN, etc. How important it is when one speaks of fulfilling the duties of international agreements not to forget that we are not contracts forced to follow, which are a special obligation to follow. On the contrary, Iceland's treaties are treaties, contracts that Iceland agrees with because negotiations in human rights are our spirit in Iceland, which is that we want to protect humanity and human rights. It is not only our responsibility but also our privilege to conduct our affairs and legislation according to the basic princes we have shared in molding internationally. In many respects, the laws we now have are tailored to other times. She's 15 years old and she's put up with a whole different situation in the world, especially Iceland's situation in the world. During the past 15, 16 years, changes have been made, usually in response to our situation or situation, and they must say, as is true, that the legislation we now live in has become quite a piece of cake. There was every reason, and in fact, there was a great need for this overall review. It might be said that the person standing here is very proud and delighted to see that we are finally on our long journey with printed legislation into the council and the church treatment that will take over. As we have seen in the history of the highest. Minister of the state, who I am not going to repeat or dive into special details there, and the discussion that the members have had at the highest level. Minister of the Interior, as the group of lit up. We have watched a great change in Europe's international environment and Iceland's situation just since the 2013 Parliamentary Committee, or the beginning of 2014. We know that the changes will continue, but the legislation that we put into place as it is today. It aims to ensure that Iceland is a full member of Schengen, that the border of Iceland is the Schengen border and aims for today's Dys cohesion work, but we are fully aware of this situation in Europe that changes may occur. Since mid - November, there have been several changes to the bill. The bill comes to the function of many advisers. The jury is so broad that while Internal Affairs oversees foreigners, the Foreign Office is the Office of the Ministry, a large part of the case of foreigners elsewhere; in the Ministry of Health, where immigrants are involved and support for immigrants in Iceland, at the Ministry of Education, in the Ministry of Education. Understandably, a bill of this degree of appeal has been examined in many of the problems. There's been some changes to the bill that I'd like to say are not in such a basic way that they change the spirit of the bill as the Senate Committee left it, but there's a full reason for that in Congress treatment, and I encourage the General and Education Committee. to take a good look. The person standing here, and that I'd like to represent all members of the Parliament, is willing to support the work on the Committee. I wanted to stop at two of the changes that have been made which I think there is a reason for special consideration. On the one hand, it is assumed that the legal influence of foreigners will not be automatically delayed. This point was discussed at the Senate Committee and its activities. I think it's important to watch it from both sides, i.e. that when lawsuits arise, the duties of the Icelandic state are also high, so it is important to look to the court if the right effect does not automatically delay that the Icelandic state will not get into trouble if it is later judged in favor of the accuser. Also, the bill, as it now looks, allows candidates to have a global protection permit for three years, not four, as we had anticipated in the bill, as the Senate Commission suggested. I think there is reason to consider this, not only in accordance with neighboring legislation, but also in accordance with the other rights of these candidates. I'm referring it to what. The General and Education Committee to examine these points specifically. According to this, I'd like to say I'm glad that the bill has finally appeared at the Council and can receive the traditional therapy, it goes to committee, and it will be called after reviews. But to me it's not least fun because it's such a historical process that we've been living up to this point. In many respects, it is unique with such a large bill laid out by a minister that it is worked with as much crosspolitic entrance as this bill, and with wide consultation in society, to institutions, as it was done. I have full faith that this bill will bring it into the council. I also believe it makes the bill like it's laid off by the highest standard. A minister is now stronger, looking to more viewpoints, and better able to measure the basic requirements, the basics that we set out to begin our work, the efficiency, the competitiveness, and, especially, the humanity and the thought that the affairs of foreigners dwell on systems, systems on a wide scale, than in the systems, each case is unique, individual case, a person entitled to human rights and the right to humane. That is in full agreement with the basics of the Icelandic community, where we want to be. I want to say something proud that I think we did pretty well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u88	Mr. President. Although I was pretty cool at the highest. Minister today, and perhaps he will be, if he runs at me in the speech, yet I'd like to say that this bill is one of the most outstanding matters before the council. This is what I believe is the most urgent thing for the Council to agree to come to law before we get up and celebrate the summer and prepare us for the fall elections. I think there's a lot of novels in the bill that looks good. For example, if I am to come up in short terms with the core of the bill, it may well be said to meet various material needs in the economy and thus promote economic growth, while it approaches a sensitive and difficult group of subjects, such as candidates for international protection, by what I allow to call and sometimes through the bill as crystal-rich humanity. That's how we're supposed to work. As we have seen before, the bill is working in a very special way. It can be said that in my careers, as noted today, exactly 25 years, four governments, I have never been involved in this kind of work. V.E.G. One of the leaders of the committee was entrusted by the government's opposition to the truth of taking it into the task. It can be said that in no way the government within the Committee has tried to use the ever - growing 38 members of Congress that have been climbed here in the last days. In other words, I have never shared in a job that has been as much of a consultation. That's why it's the only thing I read on the bill that made me laugh and find on the page. 84 points for consultation. It says so, with permission of the highest power. President: The political consultation with the making of this bill was more extensive than in general. I thought that was a manly word. But when released, it did nothing but cheer me up. Although I stress that the bill will be accepted and that I believe in it - at least I'm willing to work hard and endure even more media than we have done within the Committee, it doesn't change my frustration with the changes we need to make. The Minister of the Interior has made the bill from the Commission's proposals. Although I was happy to lie on the floor to make sure that the bill was done, I'm not going to waive my right to criticize the highest level. Minister. And the Minister must subject himself to the following, as are all who present a case at the council. [[I'm not...]] It must explain the reasons why the changes were made and reasoned. [[Up front.]] If she succeeds, I'll be glad to listen to them. She has the power of conviction and has at least once completely turned her back to my mind here in a talk chair, thus giving her another chance. The minute she was using today about one particular point may have been way too short a time, but that language is not the highest. Secretary of the Interior, Ólöf Nordal, bidder. She's supposed to know her, by permission of the president, more than coming here to refer to the development of legislators in the North, and being asked exactly which North countries are involved, she couldn't answer that. I don't expect the highest, though. Ministers are in the middle of these matters, but we shouldn't have such logic on the table unless we're absolutely sure of the right thing to do. I told them and again that I do not know, after a great deal of work, these matters that I was deeply interested in and had before, these legislation. To this end, I only know suggestions that have been made, e.g. in Sweden and Finland, but I don't know any of the northern countries that have been recorded in the law. But if it's the highest. A minister can tell me about it, and with what logic it was made, I'll listen to it. But sir faithful, though I may be completely in agreement with the highest. A minister that we should take into account a relatively successful section of the Northern Community legislation in these areas, then, from time to time, we are to run for some suggestions that exist there and are summers, such as the regulations I specifically mentioned, very controversial. That doesn't matter to me at all. The minister says that the law, the change it makes from the Council Committee's proposal at 6 mg. 45. g. where a minister is authorized to validate, including setting the time limit for family unity. When she says that she has full faith that it does not violate 8. Then I'll allow myself to disagree completely until I'm at the highest level. A minister gives further evidence of that. This covenant, this specific arrangement, clearly states that each individual should have an unauthorized right to have a home and a family. In other words, to have a foundation that is the happiness of every man. This is what is stated in paragraph 1 of this law, which no doubt all members of Parliament know by heart. The number 2 of this article clearly states on what basis it can be taken care of, i.e. If it involves national security, if it matters to the public good, if it has to do with crime and corruption or something like that. There is nothing to link this point with, which says that if people who are broken down, possibly from a conflict in the world, do not know their own smoking counsel, have been unable to find their relatives who are often lost in a refugee camp or lost in a dark war, they should be avoided if six months begin taking advantage of the rights that all of us demand, which are to find happiness with family and home. I don't give anything for this, and I have to say that, in view of the logicalness as the highest. The minister of the Interior visions, she did not challenge her own standards today. As is indicated by my background on the case and in the members of the council that sat on the committee, we certainly agree with the suggestions we left behind and, in all principle, with few exceptions, have the highest priority. Minister will stick to it. There are seven or eight things, perhaps three to four, which are vitally removed and in all areas to the worse. I've already traced the point that goes very deeply into my soul, and about family unity, and I'm telling you completely honestly that I'm going to fight with my mouth and jaws against the approval of it. What need runs the highest. Minister to do this? There are very few who will likely fit in on this. How on earth are we going to protect Iceland's location, like the highest level. A minister made today, at best, in a gray area with regard to the Convention of Human Rights? Another issue that bothers me too, and I see nothing but injustice in it is the fact that another change in government laws, the highest. The Minister of State, from the motions of the Parapolitic Parliament, includes the fact that aided children who receive asylums are placed in the position of adults, i.e. when they become 18 years old, they are permitted to re-evaluate their status. What does that involve? Yes, there is a similar silent threat that once these have been established, perhaps for many years, they will be thrown out of the land. This isn't the humane of the Icelanders. This is not the reasonableness that all classes want to show, especially children. The reality of the situation is that the very best part of the bill is how the entire bill is woven into it that children's position is much stronger than before. This tone and effort are in a unique place to protect the child as a brilliant beauty in the text. V.E.G. A minister must not do so to himself; she must not do so to us in this regard to change it from there. Mr. President. There are other things that have already been mentioned that I could move fingers into, but I'm not going to have this peck for more. I think the bill is very good, and I could count on a huge number of things that make me feel that it's urgent that we accept it. Besides the material benefits of these excellent suggestions, it is also a fact that I think it is of utmost importance to us as a legalist meeting and to the community for which we are interpreters, that political solidarity was achieved in a group that in all other countries is a bitter controversy. I'll tell you honestly at the highest. A minister of my desire to accept this is that I fear that if the harmony fails, in the unsettledness of society, it could lead to as in other communities that the matter would divide society in a very prejudiced and bitter discussion, as we may even see taking place elsewhere in the peaceful North countries. The situation is so important. That's why I say for my part that I want to go far to set things straight. But then I also feel that I am at the top. Ministers must not put me in the position that I have to agree with a law that actually hurts my sense of justice and makes me feel that I am at best in a grey area with the Human Rights Convention. Mr. President. In particular, I mentioned earlier that what is a long - distance event in the bill is the greatly improved protection provided by children, and especially by unsupervised children, and I believe that it is relevant to what kind of song is wrong, and the order set around the reception center, and especially how the child protection authorities get access through the NTSB immediately during the first phase. You see, for us who have been on the field for a long time and often come to such matters, we know that almost in most cases, children in this situation become troubled, which in some cases should have made Iceland ashamed of the situation. This is always due to the fact that child - welfare authorities have a very vague position in the current legal framework for their access to matters associated with refugees. In the bill, however, the need to listen to child - welfare authorities is almost out of the question. The responsibility of the Agency's shoulders is mandatory and must seek their advice in case of delicate cases. I make no mistake that the U.S. National Institute of Iceland can't avoid taking into account its recommendations. For example, I think it is important for children in a special position to be a guardian for the interests of those who are not to care for their child. He is to make sure that a child who is not mature or who is in a position to be unable to seek justice in a foreign land is protected. This is totally important, at least for me. It's because of these factors and though it's only because of these threads that weave through the bill that would be perfectly acceptable to accept it. There's a lot more on the bill. But in all of this, the group of languages is much clearer, and it is important in such a serious matter that a person can measure his position. I'll take an example. Of course, one of the hard things in the frame of the law is that there are many burdensome rules to those who receive or apply for international protection. They're hard to find. In order to find them, most people need special people. It's all put in one chapter. This is very important. It also matters to me that the bill shows that the government has a guiding responsibility. It really helps. V.E.G. The minister himself handled the positive and noble factors in the bill, which return to the previous minister, including the sharp. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, Hannah, took special note of those who are in a delicate position. It is of great importance to identify this, since the ability to discern at times whether a person applying for international protection has been a victim of a man's, perhaps, or has been severely tortured. It is important to create specific rights for those in that position. Finally, I'd like to say that it's important to have a solidarity on this. I believe that the government has responded well in the fall, as I told them, when it handled the challenge and obtained 2 billion to stop into the holes of past sinners and to sponsor new recommendations, such as the reception center. [[The president calls.]] I'd also like to say before leaving here, Mr. President, that it's difficult to manage the Foreign Institute, and that institution has often been accused. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I want to say to this hard case, I feel that its managers and the Agency, despite all of their efforts, have done well under great pressure, much change, and not everyone could have gone through the way they did. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u89	President. We will discuss a bill of laws about foreigners, who in many respects are important and not just because of the content and content and because of the way we have learned a bit of the work on the Council Committee that we could do something different, that we thought we should trust each other, and that we should first and last because we talked about walking in and keeping work, not building traditional ideas on more and less parts, but that such a project should be of the nature of a good idea that would lead to a conclusion and confidence and loyalty with regard to the important and sensitivity of those subjects. It is not that we in politics are especially in focus for being decent people, and not particularly for doing a decent job and much less that politics is something that is desirable to participate in. I'd like to mention this factor specifically, i.e. It's a job like that. I want to thank you very much. Minister for its share in it and the members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs who have been involved in this work, the Ministry of Health and the work and the urgency. paritaprevir Óttar Proppér for sitting in the background often has some very cool meetings that were always perplexing and always good, not always very organized but always carried forward. We had extraordinary consultations with all potential members of the community, with the best - known members, with the Foreign Institute, with the police, with the lawyers who have generally shouldered these complicated and complex tasks, with subversive movements that have been more radical in this series, with the Red Cross, etc. First and foremost, we, as members of the Senate Committee, had to comment on this, allowing this work to be at peace with other conflicts that we totally committed in full force at the council and in the council committees. I think it's important that we do this. We have sometimes talked about it on the committee that they might be viewed as an advantage. Though important, he does not get much weight in the report or in the papers that come from the Ministry. But I trust, if we succeed in making this legal practice, that we, as members of the House of Congress, with our good members of the State Department of State, are particularly able to control this aspect, because this is a model that is supposed to put more large and transnational issues on. This is a way in other parts of the North, which, unfortunately, we have not been able to make enough of ourselves, sometimes called the White Book Way or the way to begin by giving it very detailed attention to it before it is started on the bill. Unfortunately, more often than not, in Iceland, there are perhaps two members of the Ministry and one lawyer outside of town who are put down to write a bill, then they go their own way, and then we become involved in campaigns and expectations of getting involved. I think large cases, such as the affairs of foreigners, we have also discussed prison affairs, courts, organizational matters, school systems, education systems, health - care matters, these are all issues to be followed by this sort of case, and it would be a mature step for Icelandic Congress and Icelandic politics if we were to borrow it in a practical way regarding other major categories of affairs. That's why I especially want to stop at it. Hv. paritaprevir And the former Minister of the Interior Minister Ögmundur Jónasson on, let's say, the foundation for the work we've been doing. I especially want to be able to do so, and I want to thank you for having been very comfortable with all this work. Human activities have not been occupied with the meaning of a few chapters of the project but, above all, allowed the project to enjoy themselves. It has been ministers who have had the political and political size to do so, as well as the urgency of it. paritaprevir Óttarr Proppé. What I've expected in this matter - and here's the case for 1st. and that's what we're getting to the committee and what. paritaprevir Brá Consley's Konráðsdóttir is there in the hands of the General and Education Committee and is the case in extremely good and trustworthy hands - we are actually looking for a much more positive tone. The bill is far more positive, more humane and humane than a law I hope I can and may call off the temporary law of foreigners. You see, research in law is important as well. It's not only that we're writing hard and raw lyrics but we're also telling a story, we're telling a story about how a community we want to build. My background is grammar, not law, though I love law, and it's filled with poetic in law, and it's full of mediocrits and subtitles. The choice of words you choose and the language you use also reveals much about the Lawgiver's will. It may be not the will that comes at any given time but the will that reflects the spirit of society at any given time and will tell us whether we want to open our arms or not to do so. Not that there are any changes, as it were. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphphédin son, who had been appointed since the Senate committee returned the case to the minister and until we were assigned to the council. A few of these changes don't mean any improvement. They have been mentioned, both of us at the highest level. Ministers, but as in speeches, both of them. paritaprevir Össur Skarphéðinsson's son and what. paritaprevir Óttar Proppér, and these are the situations requiring the postponement of justice, a post-requisite permit that falls in four years and three years, changes in timelines in family unity, and cases of escorted children, and evaluations at 18 years of age. I believe all of this is a factor that the committee needs to consider. I'm well aware of that, as shown in logical support and the answers to the highest degree. A minister in a few hours' trouble, that we're in an atmosphere, and there's a lot of dough in the seminary. We reflect some of the discussions in the countries around us, but my encouragement is that when it comes to it, we will continue to be in the bill and prospective legislation at the head of the category and be the place that the Norse countries will see in their new legislation when it comes to it and our guide will be more likely to become a United Nations refugee agency and such members. This is a administrative bill, and it's all good to say that it's the highest. A minister may come to the matter with his emphasis and certain changes that we face, but in view of the political reality of the matter, I would also like to mention that there is a fine balance between the opposite viewpoints in some ways, between views that identify and reflect tremendous weight and serious under pressure in some countries around us, some of which have not dealt with such underlings for a long time. At times, we see such subsets in new categories and new campaigns that make out the fear of foreigners and the fear of things to come, much greater movement of people of the world to escape war, as is the case here, as well as to escape a growing challenge. Europe has previously struggled with great international transport and sometimes more national transport than it is now. Europe is especially well - equipped today to cope with such problems. Even if you don't focus on where to find the blame, i.e. To put the war on the head and not to stop them first, it is that in Western and European countries, the richest and stable welfare communities of the world that should produce and strong human - hearted legislation are to deal with this subject so that it is a pleasure in those countries. That's where I want and I think it's important that Iceland be a flag. I feel that we should set that goal. As noted in detail, we are referring to certain factors that are of immense importance and that have not been in sufficient shape. It may primarily be the basis, a clearer basis for the international protection of foreign citizens and non-participants who have this right according to international commitments that we are involved in, which I think is better off calling international will than commitments because it sounds like we're subjugated or covered by that commitment, which is because we want to be people among peoples and nations. This bill also provides a much clearer guide to the rightfulness and rightfulness of foreigners. Of course, it is and should be so that no one would have to ask that foreigners enjoy a comparable level of justice with the rest of us and that we didn't have to legalize them specifically that human rights are involved while people are waiting for their release. But it's all done here. I must confess, Mr. President, that I especially value certain chapters of the report. I think it's almost so that the Minister of Internal Affairs could publish special sections in the report because it's such good chapters and we could even use it for Christmas or something, we were members of the Parliament, for there are such fine viewpoints and good views that we should be proud of and take along countries and continents if that were to be divided. So it's not gonna be a huge bill for a team because it's a long, long time. I'm counting on it. The General and Education Committee will proceed well with these matters and the case will be established before we complete this meeting and will be sent out for immediate review after this meeting. It's an infinite importance in fact, away from all political clips and priorities and elections, and new prime ministers and ladder meetings, and what's this all about, that we borrow to complete a bill for foreigners, make it a law. If we take this group of subjects open to an election, I'm concerned that it may turn out a fire that becomes harder to deal with. But I will do my part, that this matter may have a course, and that it may be completed, and that it may become a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u90	V.E.G. President. I want the beginning of my case in 1st. about the bill for a foreign law says that I'm not going to hide that I'm one of those who want to get more asylum in Iceland now, either with the status of refugees or with humanitarian asylums. I'd like to wish for the highest. The Minister of the Interior State is happy to have contributed the bill to this day and to thank her for her enforcing speech, and I thank them very much. Councilmen who have served on the Senate Committee, a prominent committee that has had the responsibility of passing through and setting up a bill on alien law. As soon as I want to thank them all for this work, I have to say that maybe because it's my dream that there's more asylum in Iceland, I'm disappointed in a little bit of the bill, perhaps because I've become unrealistic about what came out of work. But before I take a closer look at the points I would like to mention to 1st. I'd like to say, though, that I take my heart to what has been said here, and, of course, this review is extremely important. I agree that this is a better time for the rights of children, but at the same time I want to say that I am. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquirer, who said that he was especially hoping for a reassessment of the post of an 18 - year - old escorted child, to be examined in the highest court. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, maybe even modified. Then I'd also like to say, of course, that the law is accessible and so built up that it is relatively good to see what rules it is in Iceland. It matters, especially I believe, when at least a bit of the people who will be interested in these laws and will want to learn what their rights are, there are people who may not be well - locked in Icelandic language and much less Icelandic society. Then the bioavailability of the law itself is particularly important, in addition to what the law says. As I said in the beginning, I got a little disappointed because I still feel that Iceland will still be overly closed or too closed and this is going to be too hard to get an asylum under this legal bill. You may find that one of the best at 36. the bill that discusses refugees and protection from persecution and the conditions needed to meet in order for the application for international protection to be taken for physical treatment. Here I still feel that it's too easy to dismiss people because we're almost never, I just never think, the first stop of people. No one comes here straight from a wary country and there's always some other country that they came through. I'm afraid this law will be applied too much. Besides, I'd like to mention 32. that discuss the lack of punishment due to an illegal arrival or a false or stolen state. That's as good as I can see how escapers can be punished who bring in counterfeit IDs on the grounds that they should have presented themselves in the state they first came to or came through, for no one will come here directly from the danger zone. I have a feeling this isn't changing anything from the current law. But this is one of the factors that have often been mentioned as urgent. This is a point I feel I need to consider in particular. There is also one factor that may need special consideration. Of course, it's a huge, broad bill and an enormous number of articles that are important, but I would like to mention 116. g. that discuss judicial decisions. It lists factors that may be punished. The B-joins show, by permission of the president, that it protects fines or prisons up to six months if you deliberately or by gross inadequacy has the means of working or housing for a foreigner [...]. Then the analysis continues. I think it's important to wonder what this population means. Does this mean that if an Icelander takes a foreigner or someone who has a legal case in the system and invites him to live there, the Icelanders can be punished for it? I know that in Denmark, it has been practified, so refugees have been made to live in special reception centers. Actually, I'd like to mention it on this occasion that I'd really like you to have a reception center. But what I'm wondering is, how should this law really be understood? I thought it would be very bad if there were laws so that people could be punished for hosting refugees. I hope I'm missing something here, but this is an understanding that I feel can be read from the law. So I feel that it is important to draw attention to this and, among other things, focus on what it is. The General and Education Committee that she specifically considered whether this means something other than that people can be punished for taking a person or a family who has their case in the system into their home. The bill is 125 legal branches, and they deal with an enormous number of different subjects, so there are many factors to consider. It's only a 1st. and me senators have tried to do our best to cross the bill, but of course we've had to read it rather quickly because it's only about two days since it was released. There are questions that arise about how to interpret the letter of the Law just because it may not have had time to scram everything, but it is therefore important that we consider the questions raised and direct them to the committee to examine specifically the other usual treatments mentioned in the Committee. I'd like to mention something other than what I've been talking about, who are refugees and those who come here and apply for international protection, because these are also dealing with other foreigners. This includes a section on visas. There were two articles about the reveries I stopped at, but there's a 75th paragraph. and 76th. the bill that discusses the patents for the second, on the other hand, a potential victim of the human hall and, on the other hand, a patent for the victim of a human hall. It shows that having a permit in accordance with these regulations cannot be the basis for an untimely residence permit. I just ask, why not? If a person is given a living permit because a person is suspected to be a victim of a human hall, or they have just decided that the person is a victim of a man's hall, they are given a living permit on that basis, why wouldn't it be possible to be used as a basis, that such patents can be renewed, and that people receive untimely provisions on the basis of it? At least I don't see any obvious reason why it shouldn't be. I would have thought that we should rather strive to live in the best interests of these people, who, of course, are in an extremely delicate and difficult situation and, in my opinion, would be an untimely permission to live in it. But as time is running away from me, I want to say in the end that I was disappointed with that, because this is a business law about foreigners'rights, that this is not a general change in the fact that the job permit lies with the individual and not with the professional driver. It is now that it is the employer who has the right to reside. In view of the news we've heard in the past few days about the bad workers'equipment, I think it's a point we have to think seriously about. Of course, I can't know if these workers exactly operate here on a work permit, but it's quite clear that while the employer has the job permit and not the person himself has people in close bonds with his employer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It puts people in an enormously delicate position. [[The president calls.]] The news of these days is so that we need to make special consideration. [[The president calls.]] But I guess my time's up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-20-102.u91	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis proposal by several members of the United States Congress, which, in addition to me, are at the same time. Councilmen Páll Árnason, Helgi Hjörvar, Valða Bjarnadóttir, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, and Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir. The proposal means that the Minister of Homeland and Social Affairs will be committed to starting preparations for the establishment of a refugee agent in Iceland. Preparation will be initiated by the testing of the benefits and the need to establish a special office of refugees and that a minister of the United States General will explain the results of the survey with a report to be submitted to the council. The point of the matter is included in the motion. It shows that recently there has been an unprecedented increase in applications for international protection in this country or a 85% increase between the years compared to the period of contracting and putting forth of this council agreement. The problem is a bigger problem that affects the entire continent after the war effort that has broken out in Syria and elsewhere, a problem that will not be solved spontaneously. The life and outcome of those living in unsurpassed conditions in refugee camps around the world have been a source of courage for many during winter and have moved most of us to show compassion. In view of this, the need for safe treatment and welcome to escape have been increased in our society and elsewhere. Studies show that the Icelanders generally want to help people who come from war - torn areas, although we may at times see in the comment systems of the National Souls darker than those of foreign origins and religions. Yet, the observations show that the general will of Iceland is in order to get help from someone in need. However, in the United States it has been repeated that have caused harsh criticism that has been directed to the grueling treatment, long hours of payment, the situation of inmates while waiting for a release of their refuge and finally a final decision for rejection or the approval of a refuge. There have been accusations of violations of the civil rights of those who seek refuge, that humanity has been disregarded, etc. And it has been published in the media evidence, including the U.S. Residents who handle refugees' issues, which are a sad description of how the treatment has directly broken people down, as described in a paper with the Senate resolution proposal, and I'm not going to retrace it any more than I'm going to get to know people. The recent losses have also brought us back to our home the refugees who are looking for better advice and guidance on their legal status and opportunities in Icelandic society. Now there are two cases in favor of refugees and refugees, apart from the issues discussed here, that are the major bill we call, and we discussed here just a few minutes ago, the overall laws on the alien law, and a smaller bill that is designed to improve the treatment with the enlargement of the panels and other responsibilities. The big bill, which is the new alien law and is the product of transnational work on that tribe, is expected to be all communication between foreigners with the Icelandic government through one institution, the Foreign Institute. In this regard, it should be viewed as the need to integrate the services that the Icelandic government can provide to foreigners, including the trustees, but must also highlight the importance of providing protection and proper assistance to foreigners. A foreign agency that determines whether a permit to be granted will not, in effect, be able to perform that role properly. There is no lack of confidence in the Agency as such, depending on the nature of a matter. In other words, it is important to separate between the decision-and-in-study role that the Foreign Institute has in hand and the interest and justice role needed to take care of refugees. That is, in effect, the only change this synonym would bring to the big bill, i.e. starting up an institution for such interest and justice. Others involved in the affairs of refugees, the Red Cross, the Multicreatures, Human Rights Offices, Companys, and individual lawyers are doing a good job, yet all these parties recognize the need for integration and the need for protection and proper support of foreigners. In other words, it is important to have clean administrative lines, such as the understanding of the decision-and-in-study role that the Foreign Institute has in hand and the interest and the justice of refugees, however, as stated earlier. This proposal is directed by our members of the United States to integrate advisers and help provided by refugees in Iceland so that they can search for one place where their interests are put before them. It's now nearly two years since the Red Cross made a deal with the State Department to take in the security of those applying for international protection in Iceland. The Red Cross is now receiving financial contributions from the Ministry to carry out this assignment. He is doing this well. But this financial and employers' relationship with the Red Cross has been defined as a threat to independence or at least the image of the Red Cross as a neutral humanitarian organization. For example, financiers can't choose a spokesman, since the Icelandic government is only paying lawyers on the Red Cross. This has been critical of lawyers. Although we know that the staff of the Red Cross exerted themselves and worked hard to do the job well, there is the possibility that the surveillance and warning role that the Red Cross has had regarding the rights of refugees and inmates is being carried out in the courtyard. By establishing the office of a refugee agent, it would be certain that the refugees and the refugees would be given not only neutral but, above all, active assistance that would take into account their interests and legal standing. An agent would then be assigned to perform the role of a earner or an outsider and provide a spokesman according to events, as the Red Cross now does. Then you might expect an agent of refugees to cooperate with and direct refugees in dealing with advisers or organizations such as the Multi-creature, Red Cross, and Foreign Institutes, who remembered their role in further relief efforts. More important, with the establishment of a refugee agent, it would be easy to see what has happened repeatedly that public office, such as the Foreign Institute of England, gets an angry wave of public making decisions or decisions concerning the rights of refugees and refugees. A respectable president. There is no doubt about the meaning of the challenge of a host of refugees who have made a difficult and often life - threatening journey over long distances to escape and their families from the threat of war in war areas or from other unbearable conditions. During the past few months, the convention of people who have endured the ordeal that the news of the Witnesses requires the greatest professionalism. This is similar to the rest of the refugees and the refugees who come here at the invitation of the government, the so - called hostilists. The North countries are now, as we have discussed earlier today, at great levels in legislation and refugee policy. This is because of the rapid trend now taking place in the media because of world events. We're supposed to be paying close attention to what is going on, and the policies and legislation being developed and working in our neighboring countries, but we're also supposed to take the initiative and not be afraid to take certain steps to improve. We, a respectable president, could be in the lead, as well as in other nations, a role model for this class. We should not hesitate to assume that role if we are in a position to do so.
