ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u1	The president considers that a meeting meeting can last longer today, but it is a need to complete a discussion on the program. So we do not comment, so we look at it as it is accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u2	A meeting is about one session between parties, the same rules as the rest of this discussion, and 1st. According to Article 3 of Review, a standard legal project for a talk period. Sixty-seven. Parliamentary law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u3	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to be financed in 2017, which is the first case of the 146th legislature, but the bill is submitted under any unusual circumstances. It was planned last spring to have elections at the Generals until expected and was extended by a council until the fall. Under normal circumstances, so to speak, the bill should have been submitted to the first meeting of a assembly on Tuesday in September. However, the formation of a new government has been delayed. So the bill is put aside from a temporary management board. There are only three precedents that such governments brought up bills in 1945, 1947, and 1950. In view of the mandates and sources of temporary and activities necessary for the daily administration of the land, it is thought to provide a bill for financial management, leaving an end to 42rd. The Constitution will contribute it for the financial year in which it is due. Further, the Constitution states that the Constitution is at 41 st. that no fee can be paid unless it is authorized in financial or financial terms. Clearly, if budgets were not submitted and approved before the start of a new year, the law of law would lack permission to ensure continuation and harmony in the activities of the State. In accordance with the President's section on the separation of administrative issues between recruitment at the Iceland Board, financial and economic institutions are required to provide financial and economic support. A respectable president. For the first time, a financial bill is presented on the basis of a new set of laws on public finances. Economic and financial policies based on the same law were presented in the form of two proposals for action in April. The financial policy set out a general goal for the development of public funds to five years of age, but financial initiatives were made to further expand the policy objective of income, expenses, and economics of the official to the next five years. At that time, policies on 34 topic areas were introduced for the first time. The content of this theme was adopted by the General Assembly last August, which provides a basis for the development of this bill. Enforcement of a law on government finance during the past few years was an important step to trust in the establishment of public funds and provided criteria for integrating public economic and financial goals. The new law places special emphasis on long - term thinking, stability, financial discipline, and acquiescation. The law covers a broader area than older law laws on the government's capital and covers the total government finance, i.e. Both state and rural society. The law also trusts the administration of the Generals to set financial goals as well as public finance, which are fundamental to the making of budgets. The development of financial and financial policies last spring, and now funding bill on that basis is an important factor in establishing the baseline levels of sustainable, cautious, stable, firm and transparent laws. The approved law on public finances is only one step toward improving the use of public funds and it is clear that the making of the big changes they produce will result in a great deal of work for the entire administration system for the next few years. With the new law, the key change in the implementation of a bill for funding that the budgets of the A-part of the state's funds will be on the left and on-line, apart from institutions and projects as they have been. This exchange of funds supports the objectives of the entire legal policy of government policy in public finance and makes it easier for the General Assembly to assess government policy and priorities. In line with this, the bill's report has also changed. Thus, it is not limited to any individual change in institutions and projects; rather, it is in the bill to find a fairly detailed discussion of individual problems in the management of state funds. It is, in fact, there. discussed the objective and action of the government for the next year in the relevant litigation categories and the changes in their budgets related to the next year's budget. The format of Article 1. The bill will take into account the global economic economy standard for public finance and will increase the importance of measuring the economic impact of government funds on the economy. It presents the main terms of the state's budget, which is often referred to as GFS standard, i.e. income and expenditure budgeted according to economic categories, as well as changes in property and debt. Sections 2 and 3. The bill shows financial resources according to topic fields and seminars. It is presented, however, in a position similar to that of the management board, but it is changed by the State Department of Accounts. This disintegration is further reported on the state budget of national interest. Breakdown 2 finally shows the exchange of budgets by topic fields, litigators, and instruments by economic exchange. The bill is provided with a special copy that includes is shown the exchange of legal rights to stakeholders and other projects belonging to the A-part of the State Fund. The package leaflet presents a comparison of expenses between next year's accounts, budgets in the current year, and funds for the upcoming budget. Official financial legislation also recommends the publication of a budget for the next two years, but according to the bill for changing that law, the implementation of that law will be postponed for one year and will be published for the first time in a follow-up with a bill to be financed in 2018. In short, it has proved to be a challenge for the administration of three years into the future. It was enough to swallow the changes I have been measuring for this time, and I trust the Council will show understanding that the government, however, was successful in the transformation made in the bill and in the copy, and we can agree to postpone the factors that concern the budgets for the next two years. Still, we have in the financial program that shows the language field and divide them five years into the future. With a longer-term comparison plan than one year, it will be easier to monitor the development of financial partners and projects in relation to their policies. Information in the Package Leaflet will thus increase transparency as well as increase in knowledge about funding progress earlier than once to the heads of state organisations and to other operators. It is unquestionably that the law as it stands for legal rights and has to be absolutely determined that next time the budget and copies of it are submitted to the council, this law will be fulfilled. At the same time as the changes in budgeting to which it was listed above, candidates were assigned to revise the identity of budgetors and subjects in a follow-up. The objective was to improve perspective by reducing the number of minor spending teams, thus focusing rather on larger teams within the 100 budgets provided. The budget for 2017 is based in all the fundamentally on the financial and financial policies adopted by the Council of the Summer. In addition, the bill has taken into account the economic effects that result from new or modified laws adopted by the Council to form changes in the social security law adopted several weeks ago, as well as the government's decision on a number of new issues that needed to be considered after financial planning was submitted in spring, as well as other tax changes that are committed to finance. Government financial policy that began in 2013 has been based on the responsible management of state funds and long - term vision with the Council and the practical use of common resources guided by the national community. As of 2013, the state of the budget has changed significantly. The rise of the state funds has improved year by year after the automatic debt collection was stopped by budgets of 2014. Is the budget bill for 2017, including the fourth, in a row where the state funds are expected to run without a leak. The combined rest of the total state funds in 2014, 2015, and 2016 is now reaching some 96 billion dollars. by the time you're through about 380 billion dollars. stability data from broken homes of fallen financial companies added to the state's income during 2016. The result is that by means of targeted measures, it has been achieved to balance the financial situation. For 2017, the bill for funding remains based on the foundation laid with unsettled budgets for the past three years and is expected to produce a total yield of over 28 billion dollars. This is about the projection expected in the budget prior to 2017-2021, and about 1% of GDP. Another major factor in government financial policy has been to reduce the debt of the state and thus reduce the burden of growth. Thus, a better source of government funds has been used to pay off the State debt as well as the provision in the balance sheet for this purpose. It is estimated that in the current year, the total debt of the state's funds goes down by nearly 200 billion, reaching a total of 1,140 billion dollars. Compared to 1,339 billion dollars. at the end of 2015. The State's debt will continue to be reduced because of improved government funds and stable donations, but under law, pay from stable donations will be used to pay off debts. Based on a conservative budget for debt management, the total debt of the state's funds should be down to the value of nearly 1,000 billion by the end of 2017. This means that the proportion of total debt of the state is reduced from about 60% of gross domestic product 2015 to 39% by the end of 2017. Plans estimate that the ratio will continue to decline to 29% by the end of 2021. Here, I'm talking about the proportion of the total debt of the state. According to financial guidelines on the new law on government funds, funds and bank accounts are withdrawn from the total debt, and the debt should be determined to be represented by less than 30% of the gross domestic product. Official financial laws view the total debt of the state and community, then detracted from these sections, funds, and bank accounts, thus finding the debt of the law. Today, it is possible to achieve this goal as early as 2018 or 2018. By 2015, the Kingdom budget was about 79 billion, an estimated 69 billion in 2017. That's a 10 billion drop in just two years. However, the legacy of the bank collapse is a heavy debt, with a growing burden greater than any European Union's income. For a time, therefore, there will still be one of the main solutions to debt, as well as to increase the trust of international and financial agencies in the government of public funds to allow interest rates that are closer to those of other nations. As evidence of success in such projects, it is reasonable to note that one of the three parties'credit ratings was raised by two steps at a time in the beginning of September. These trends benefit more people, such as government companies and businesses, large companies making money in foreign currency, and some others. With more solid growth and low growth burden, there is real space to cope with such urgent projects as building infrastructure and strengthening basic government services that will already produce a great profit in Icelandic society. A respectable president. The policy of the government has been to maintain economic stability and to trust in the establishment of public funds. Thus, there have been grounds for tax declines and changes in order to improve the effectiveness of the tax system. The policy has been to simplify the tax system, reduce access, and increase equality. Special attention has been given to reducing the spell on individuals. Tax taxation was reduced in two stages during 2014◯2017. The first step was taken in 2014, at which time the tax burden of earnable individuals was light, with an increase in the lower level of income taxation and a decrease in the middle phase. The second step was laid in the fall of 2015, with a gradual decline to two with a decline in the middle step and a decline in the lower level. These changes will be fully carried out on January 1, the second. General goods were taken off in 2015, with all customs laid down in two classes this year and the next, with the exception of certain foods. Toll deduction reduces goods to consumers, improves the competitiveness of seals, and increases the effectiveness of domestic markets. In this case, insurance costs have been reduced by 0.74% percentage points over the past two years and the value of the extra tax system have been changed towards greater efficiency and simplicity by reducing the stepbourging and reducing the number of accessories. All these measures have recently been made in support of the public's commercial growth and have returned to their homes. They have likewise contributed to the commercial arrangement that is now at competitive conditions compared with the countries around us. These include, for example, the value of taxes in Iceland is 24%. There's nothing lower in the North. The 2017 budget has no further plans for tax change other than those already legalized or planned in a financial programme until the next five years. During 2014 and 2015, a moderate hold on the growth of primary expenses and money was particularly important in the interests of social security, health and education as a result of the substantial maintenance arrangements on the budget of the state's budget over 2009-2012. The budget of the current year has increased Kingdom funds to promote and improve the services of the welfare system, with the growth of budgets in the year about 5%. Over 20 billion dollars went up in the years of 2013-2016. absolute value corresponding to 13% absolute increase. The financial plan allows expenses to continue to increase to an actual value of 31 billion, which is equivalent to an actual increase of 18%. Thus, the cumulative general increase in health development will be 34% during the 2013/2021 period. This is an estimated 7 billion - billion increase in health costs over the next year. In addition, there is a plan to establish a modified payment system for patients with one integrated cost-benefit system for patients. Will be the cause of the Generals to ensure that budget and financing is on the budget to meet it. For the council, it was presented with a plan on this subject when the payment system laws were given at the World Parliament earlier this year. It can be assumed that they will be presented, but the publication and signing of the Regulation depend on the guarantee of financing for the next year. Something similar can be said about the development of high school spending. Total expenditures for this have increased by 25% in terms of actuality in 2013,2016. At the same time, the number of students has decreased, and so each student's expenses have increased by 36% in real value. It is estimated that the number of seniors in high school will decrease by 21% over the next few years, including due to short-term study to the student's test. The budget, however, increases high school contributions at that time by 36%, the actual value from 2013 to 2021, meaning that an increase in each student's contribution could reach more than 70% during the specified period. The financial programme has also assumed that the university sector's growth will increase the real value by 37% per year during this same period of the year, from 20133/42021. In this regard, it is worth noting that contributions to research and technology into competitive funds increased by more than 60% in terms of real value during this period, i.e. During the period since 20136/2016. The government made a decision after approval in the Scientific and Technical Council for large contributions. The addition was 2.8 billion into this competitive fund, which is equivalent to the increase in the 2013st2016 budget by 60% in real value. The plan allows them to continue to increase by 5% in the next five years. The situation of the elderly and the disability has been focused on recent events. Special emphasis has been made on improving the quality of those whose feet are in the community with increasing improvement. New laws on social security increase substantially in pensions, making it possible that the pensions of those with no other income have become as high as the minimum wage paid within two years. Change in the social security system also includes flexible retirements, promoting more active employment and streamlined rights and rules in the social security and overall pension system. Change in social security and the payout market for old-time pensioners increases government funds spending by a total of 11 billion dollars. As early as the next year, there is an additional commitment that had not been planned in the budget. The economic restoration of Iceland after the fall of the banking system in the fall of 2008 is well under way, with economic forecasts for the coming year. Economic growth has been based on solid foundation over the past few years. National farming is at present a balance. Inflation is low. The power of money grows. The level of employment is high and unemployment with the least we've ever seen. There's fine growth in commercial investment as well as an increase in personal consumption. Homes and businesses have new favorable circumstances to reduce debt and are in a better position now than they used to. Possessions have gone up. Then you could go on. It is impossible to overlook the growing likelihood that national farming could threaten communication. The rapid growth of tourism continues to put pressure on the crown. Remuneration has increased substantially beyond production and can be expected to peak at the beginning of the next year. The change in labour agreement is therefore necessary, but uncertainty now exists at work, including because there has not yet been an equation of pension rights between the public and the public market. I hope that we will succeed in completing that matter during this council, preferably this month. There is a lot to pay, not just for the labour market and continued workforce peace, but it is clear that countries and rural groups will need to pay substantial increases if they are not to respond. During the last few days and weeks, a conversation with the entire organization has continued because of the agreement that was signed at the time and still exists, no one has reported it, but the conversation continues. how we can adapt a possible bill, which would appear at this council, to the views that have occurred since the decision was submitted to the last election. It is the collective need for investment from the public that we are still struggling with. The level of government investment is still relatively low. Another challenge that we need to face in the future is the advance of a real estate market. There is another matter we need to be aware of. The stimulus in the economy that I have turned aside to require disciplined economic management and to require proper emphasis on public finance so that they do not contribute to further expansion and recovery. Thus, the need for a more conservative policy on the growth of the Kingdom budget is further needed for the remainder to be in line with the financial policy and suitable for where we are in this long economy. There is no turning aside from that vital task. In recent years, the Parliament has received tips from a variety of sources, both the Secret Bank and the Bank of Interests, on the importance of the importance of the government's support of the important work of stabilising, providing conditions for lower growth, and controlling the inflation. It is the way of continuing to increase the increase in economic savings and the balance of the economy. On the basis of responsible economic management and balance in terms of the government, improvement in lifestyle and further support of the well - being of the community in behalf of all the people of the country will continue. A respectable president. I have, in view of the fact that this bill is, in all principle, based on a financial program that has already existed and agreed by the Council, decided not to go into exactly one team, but I say, under the end of my case, that what we have here is a financial bill which is already proposed to the Icelanders. Money is growing. There is more space for us to do better in most areas. We increase donations in health care. We add contributions to road, transportation, education, and other important infrastructures. The next year, we can reduce the expense of patients. We have recently made decisions on the promotion of the social security system, which is financed by this bill, and that is how we could continue. This year and year, the population has enjoyed considerable increases in money gains. In the event that looks forward, the level of money will continue to grow. But we must be careful. We're still in debt to a nation. To continue looking forward to the important task of reducing debt is to be responsible. I hope, after the agreement of the law on government finance and the basis we have, the new framework, that the debate on the state money and the official financial matters will be taken into consideration by the way we perform our role in achieving the baseline values established in the legislation to work on stability, sustainability, security, etc. Further support of the welfare of society is really in this discussion. It is by the words that I propose, a respectable president, that the bill will be followed by this discussion referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. The budget board. I request a good cooperation with the committee, which I know is a tremendous challenge under a great urgency. I wish for the good in that job. We offer all the help possible from the Ministry of finance, and I hope we can get the bill ready for Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u4	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister of his history for a budget bill, which is certainly presented here under unusual circumstances. V.E.G. At the end of his talk, a minister may be our biggest concern here in this hall, but it is the evidence that there is a growing expansion of the economy at the same time that we recognize that there is a significant cumulative need for increased donations for management and the need for public investment. It's like the highest. A minister rightly mentioned it as "the lowest of all. " We also need to look forward that this was a few weeks ago to a transport program that is not funded on the budget and the highest. Minister has said that the council must deal with this. On the other hand, we realize that we need to be careful about the signs we are holding. Tells you the highest. A minister to make it wise to maintain the tax reduction that will be fully reduced by the number of steps in these funds and the amount of income that comes with it? [[The president calls.]] Or would it have been wise to postpone that reduction?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u5	A respectable president. For the next year's tax and tax changes, there is a plan that we decided to have step - change, including so that not all of them are affected at once. I believe that was a responsible approach. The decrease in bottom level is an important dressback, especially for those with the lowest salary. The same is true of the removal of the middle phase. It involves measures that have some 3.8 billion influence on the budget. This is a minimal influence in the large context of the total government income of over 740 billion. However, toll change is another matter. This is a demolition of tolls, which I believe will bring both good production companies in Iceland and trades as well as common consumers. [[The president calls.]] How foolish it would be to let the opportunity go free from following that momentous change!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u6	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Total minimum effect on decomposition, says the highest. Minister, 3.8 billion. Still, we are in a position to look at budgets where the transport program - which I now remember as far as I can. A minister himself, along with the one standing here, has agreed on nothing very many days or weeks ago or what it was--is unsaturable. The reason for her approval was not just that elections were ahead, but because all of us here know that there is a significant need for investment in the road system both after last years' surgery but also because of increased pressures, increased traffic, and increased tourism. In some way, it is likely that we will have to make money to live up to this investment, as well as, of course, what has been over and over. I'm asking the highest. Minister: How does he see the fact that the council will approach the project adopted by 39 unanimously nothing long ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u7	A respectable president. I remind you, we're suggesting a dollar rate and taxes raise next year more than prices. This involves counterbillary action in this context. It is very easy in itself to come up here and trace a long list of important projects, but we must simply know our own stomach issues during expenses. We can't do everything at once. We've just made a big salary. That is why the cost of paying has increased by 10% per year. This is absolutely historic. As a result, the decision was made to set aside the budget that we had in pay, including the amount of money we had received. to the medical profession. We were also making other decisions in recent years, such as that we are going to make a new hospital. For the first time, we are in the financial program adopted in August. Of course this means that we're setting priorities for money. We have put their priorities in pay; the general market is especially for those who have a minimum of time between their hands. At the same time, we've been raising donations for education and health care. [[The president calls.]] May I remind you, in 12 months, we've increased tax dollars by 20 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u8	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the history of this budget bill. Admittedly, they need to earn money. So it caught my attention when I crossed the criteria behind the fishing costs that are now recommended next year that they are estimated to be about 5.5 billion. In this context, let us also examine the expenses of the marine musculoskeletal system, the expenses for administration, the Merro, and other measures, the total cost of a total of 6.3 billion. Then something comes in as a profit. I figure I'll ask if the highest. Ministers have the same algorithm, find out the same thing, that when all of this is taken up, there are 1.5 billion that the state's fund gets. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he thinks it's a fair switch for this resource that's common to the nation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u9	A respectable president. There is one thing about the fishing costs that often causes a degree of misunderstanding in public discussions at least, that is, the fishing fees we set for next year are due to an ongoing payment. Now I think we should be very concerned that no fur should be found, which is then the lost income, because the fishing costs are failing today on the future. We have raised the fishing costs of the seawater fishing industry, but they also dropped on the bullfish. I understand why. In view of the progress in recent years, a senator asks himself if there are 5 billion high numbers. In recent years, however, higher fishing costs have been being paid. Sadly, because of the large concentration of the crown and the size of the British pound, the projection has greatly weakened. That's what I think we should be worried about, but there's actually a lot more than where we should set the rate for hunting on the species we put it today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I've simply felt that we should have hunting fees that reflect a fair price for priorities using these resources. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u10	The president prays to the highest level. Minister to keep track of deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u11	President. V.E.G. A minister speaks of misunderstandings and concerns as to the implementation of the project. I'm worried about that. The financial minister does not know the portion of many productions that have been contributing billions to the interest of their owners. Doesn't he know how to do that? Is it not a coin to some extent to enter a common fund and be counted as a skirmish of the seawater resources? Is that some misunderstanding, or are we counting things differently? Or it's different ideologies that I and the highest. A minister of this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u12	A respectable president. This, of course, is a debate that is very difficult to resist in a financial discussion. But is there a problem with large companies where the economy is the most money - making and profit - making business? They pay taxes to pay them. If we're going to adjust the fish costs in Iceland to what's going to be the best thing for the largest company in the country, then we're going to be walking the small and medium-sized partners dead. It's safe. That's why the fishing fee is the way it is today. Happily, this is still an incentive to increase economic management and to maximise the value of water resources that humans bring to the land and are working on the land in ways that provide greater value for marine products than for any other nation. That's because the system we've built is like that. But if you do. A senator is announcing that we should adjust the cost of fishing in relation to the country's best interests, when she announces that it doesn't care about a small, medium-sized marine export company.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u13	Mr. President. I wish to the highest. The secretary of finance is happy with the first financial bill made on the basis of public financial legislation. I can wholeheartedly agree with many things that are underneath, including that we're all here at the Senate Hall having a disciplined business in connection with funding, promoting long - term thinking, stability, and infringement. But I also draw attention to the fact that we are in a very positive process of reducing the debt of the government. Next year, the total debt ratio of the state's total debt will be nearly 40%. But government, Iceland, remains to be the largest and highest in Europe, much higher than Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland. He's the biggest guy in the world. In Iceland, although everything is going to be best, Iceland's interest costs will remain very high. That's in my opinion because we need credible money policy. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: What can you do to reduce this intolerable growth rate of government, government, government, and people as well as business? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u14	A respectable president. We're living the way I went along with my very good career, my investment grows enormously year after year, my private consumption is taking on a lot of control. Iceland's relatively low inflation rate, mainly because the crown's gang has been getting so much stronger. This sign and the ones I went along with in my case have been the main reason for the interest that the Sustainer has kept for the past eight years. I am absolutely convinced, however, that if government officials show discipline in their financial management and if we succeed in getting a new work market frame so that collective agreements are getting closer to being spread by the increase in production, the scope at any time, the scope at any given time, we have created the basis for a significant decrease in growth and stable inflation in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u15	Mr. President. In many ways, I would like to agree with much that was presented in the language of the highest degree. Secretary of finance, but if we look at the story, Icelanders are always in a certain roller coaster ride. That's even. On account of the crown, due to the financial policies in this country, and no matter how well - meaning we often are with the labour market, with a better law on public finances, we need to revise our financial policies. Therefore, the question that burns on me and others: Are people willing to review and review Iceland's financial policy with the aim of reducing the country's interest rate and reducing the interest rate of homes in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u16	A respectable president. Yeah, I think it's very important to go back over the money policy. It has in itself been laid the foundation for this by a very large publication of the Sensian Bank on that subject. I believe that among other things, we need to wonder, " How hard are we to keep up with the inflation goals and how much we should look for economic stability? ' We also need to review it if the structure of the economy changes, making significant improvements in the amount of currency available to us. How should we respond to that situation? How should we focus on the long term management of their factors? Money policy has certainly not transcended criticism, but I believe that the underlying problem that has caused the fluctuations. On the other hand, there is a disagreement between a job market and too little discipline in public financial matters, which can be attributed in some respects to not always having enough perspective on the situation, as seen in the collapse of the bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. He handled the situation well. If we look at the balance bill, the situation is very good, but it's also fragile, like the highest level. The minister pointed out. We've known that for a long time, including. magazine on financial policy reviews from Iceland's Federal Bank. The bank points out that if it is considered not considered to reduce government investments, other means, e.g. to gain increased income, and to bring up taxes on the committee as a matter of course. From the date of the bank, the cover of May 21 was submitted. We've gone to elections, and all classes have promised voters the infrastructure, as well as the highest category. Minister. So I want to ask the highest. Ministers whether it is obvious that the only way to meet his campaign is to raise taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u18	A respectable president. No, I don't think the situation calls for an increase in taxes. Taxies are already high in Iceland, and circumstances in which we live are simply ideal conditions in so many areas. I think the Allied Parliament of the Icelanders is envious of the European Union's National Assembly throughout Europe, and I don't speak of the Southern European countries trying to scrap the financial equation. Most of them have great angles. The late bank has called for human support. That's one of the main nerves of my case. Regarding the promise to continue building up, I believe we are doing well with them in this financial bill. As I have said many times, of course, it can be said that it needs to be done better. I believe this council will decide in several areas to do more. I've mentioned the payment program, I've given a unique investment project, including animal funerals or Western Islands vectors, etc. But I never promised the best health - care system in the world, such as the dog. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u19	Mr. President. In fact, we are not far from having the best health - care system in the world, but a little more is needed to do so. We know, Icelanders, going through swings. All too often, taxation and investments have been reduced at the same time. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: When he looks at the infrastructure of the country where everyone complains, there is an emergency in the health system, the roads are almost blocked by us, and the school system is in trouble, the tax declines, such as reduction in hunting costs, decrease in energy taxes, wealth taxes, and the equality of the income tax system, to name something of the changes made during the last term, have been a practical error in looking into the interiors that are ill, and everywhere is called on structure?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u20	A respectable president. I actually come up here with the same speech all the time. We made the decision to raise billions of dollars in order to obtain doctors and nurses and medical staff and other health care professionals in Iceland. We have also set billions of people at school to keep our work strong and strong. There is still a challenge for us, in both of these areas. Then we made the decision to put billions of dollars in social security to improve the interests of those there. Therefore, when men come directly to these huge decisions, including those, I find it kind of expensive. to finance the construction of a new hospital, and to say, "Why isn't it setting up a billion here and one billion there? In the end, it's just a matter of priorities. This is not a matter of political willingness to perform things. I believe that the taxes in Iceland are already high, and it's really amazing that when we're at the top of the economy and we have the best fortune we've ever done in republicary times, people come up here and say, "Now we've got to start raising the taxes to earn some of the things we have to spend on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u21	Mr. President. It was an interesting exchange here at the end. However, it is not overreached that certain milestones are involved in the financial work that we are now facing in both the urgency of our times that we truly are in because of these circumstances, as well as the new laws on public finances and their presentation. It takes a lot of time to get through it, even though you have previously been able to look through these books and realize things after a bit of work, since it is not quite simple and has never been read through the budget. I don't think this financial bill is quite as useful as the secretary of finance has talked about, I don't think the access is very good. Here's a lot of numbers in that you can misuse them for some kind of work, for example. to compare with such. You can't use electronics that a computer can read properly because it's all in pdf documents. It is true here that, in view of the situation, the council has an opportunity, of course, in view of the fact that there is not a majority of government activity here, but there is much work in the maps. I've said that I think this work is one of the ways to see where people stand together for income, for expenses, etc., to see where they can get closer and how. There are only seven classes in this room, and I guess everyone is willing to be in the government, and I think this is exactly the way to do that, because if we don't get together about financial matters, we're not going to get along about a lot of other things. Most of the things we do here are based on this. This has been about economic growth and goods and, fortunately, the situation has been going up ever since 2010 and kind of adventure that we could have turned over so quickly, that the situation is actually as good as it is. The government that noticed a collapse produced a good place for the government that is now leaving its power. At that time, everything has actually fallen with her, and now we live in a situation that has been traced here. Of course, it has to do with problems, as it has also been considered, i.e. ... andthecrediting and the strengthening of the crown and the like. Travelers are raised and the crown is strengthened by some tourists perhaps starting to think about, e.g. Britain, but it's also caused capital owners to like having money here. And as mentioned earlier, the interest market in Iceland is quite different from that in many other parts of our control countries. This may mean performing the classics we've been talking about, and everyone agrees that we want to watch our backs so we don't get into trouble. Sadly, though, there is a mark in the situation of this material. And because there were even here Of course, talking about taxes or tax increases does not support the money policy of paying taxes. It just doesn't. This bill is very political. You can't overlook that. It is based on a political fiscal program, which was put forward in spring and approved by the greater part at the then - and, of course, bear the mark. It's like the highest. A minister went over, he suggested that the midpoint be removed and more based on the political course of the Independence Party. That's the way it is. We certainly need to be careful. All need to remember that when talking about the position, how we improve, change, and do it. That's what we need to do. It cannot be overlooked, despite the fact that much has been done. I'm not going to belittle what the Minister considered on social security or other factors that have been mentioned. However, it is with social security, unfortunately, that there is a very limited group that still enjoys the vast increase that some individuals received, individuals who receive special household support but not, for example. A married couple. Not everyone is content with the procedure. She could have been more equal than it was. It is also so that the cripples are still waiting. Let us not forget that it calls for so much increase in wages, that is why many in the budget are involved. The groups that are lost still remain behind, and they are not expected in financial programmes. I believe a great many members of the council still spoke for the better interests of these groups in the campaign. We left greens before our government budget elections because we feel we can't wait any longer. This is very important, and we have also talked about paying off debts. I think most of us would agree that it needs to be done. But there is no longer much longer a great number of projects, such as transport, health, and education. It's just not possible. And more is involved. I hope that during the discussion and between council members, there would be an alliance to do better than the national financial programme that we have here. It is also not acceptable that two ministers from the same government and members of the same council even put forth their best scheme, each in direct conflict. This occurred when the national budget was submitted and the transport program was planned.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u22	It was the council that...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u23	I'm not talking about, chief. Minister, the conclusion that came during the final days in a discussion of the transport program. It well knows that the transport program proposed by a minister in his government was not financed, much less the improvements he agreed on with me and others on the final days of the council. Just to be right. And she wasn't so sorry. However, that was the first travel program approved by that government. But from now on, we have, because we're all equal in here, there's no one or two categories to rule, a nonsense opportunity to do better. And I repeat, I hope it will be done. That's what matters. And it is also worth considering, for I spoke of a transport plan: What do these 300 million, e.g. In animal tunnels? What's really inside? A long-term program had been approved, and the Minister's plan had been agreed on by extension. If a financial minister has not seen reason to agree to a minister's plan in his own government for improvement, you wonder what is inside and what is beyond their opinion. I think it gives me some thought. It's a little cheap when you suggest a way of getting someone else to decide what it's going to look like, even though I'm very grateful for the Congress. I think it might matter a lot and make a difference. In spite of all the appeals we hear during these last days. The land hospital says that it has to shut down or appoint people, that is not an option in relation to the funds proposed in this budget, because the new law requires that they act promptly. They must be effective in cutting down immediately. Here's the highest. Secretary of health. It would be interesting to hear how he envisions that our national hospital can respond in view of what they cannot or cannot lack. The same is true of education and law enforcement. I've had a lot of discussions about both of these aspects in my talks. Of course, I'm surprised if the University of Akureyri, who has a 30th birthday next year, has to cut down one, two divisions, that it will be the birthday present, in order to keep the sea. We know that we are far behind control countries like other North countries and OECD targets, etc. It would be interesting to know if a driver's hand is confirmed that the added supplement is put forward enough to prevent these items from occurring. When you read through the bill, there are some interesting factors that are completely opposed to what is said. I think it's very special. There is talk of a cumulative need for state-sufficiency at docks, based on a change in rejections in 2014 regarding the payment of the State Fund, where funding of projects was increased. But here, the dock funding is down. In effect, negative reactions are being made. It's a lot of ways, unfortunately. I realize that we can't go through everything or do all kinds of things, no one's talking about it. But we need to respond to these urgent matters that require health care, education, the older citizens, and the desperate ones who are still in custody, the law, the state guard, and others. We left greens and went for reforms in this category. We had a set of factors, income candidates who are very realistic. Such suggestions do not include putting anyone on a god or a seabed or putting it on his head or something like that. This is shown on page 22. 269 on the bill, because I was already talking about the roads, that in the kronos, donations were given for the current year about 8,000 million. K. less than the average in the last 40 years. There is a bit of money in a road system that doesn't meet minimum security requirements in some places. We need to face this. I ask for a meeting of the U.S. and a legal committee that we stay together. But we do not just do it there. Of course, the people need to be organized. As we look at the growth of tourists that increase the pressures on the roads, on health care, pressures on society's infrastructure increase more and less, we cannot just sit by. That's not possible. We've made an agreement to reduce debt. In fact, it does. I trust to go, the reward of property, which comes out of the stocks. Then we should not reduce taxes, promoting that the situation will not be as good as it can be and make it more sensitive. Mr. President. There is no way to talk about everything during this brief talk period, especially when people receive a budget bill in their hands yesterday's afternoon, which is to be read and covered and developed. Work in the next few days, and weeks get really stiff. Of course we'll try, I think, to finish the case, but in order to do that, we'll have to get along okay with the most important things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u24	President. In his case earlier, the Supreme Court changed. Secretary of finance, for the sake of the word. This is relatively interesting, for like what is heard. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen said earlier that we had this dollger in our hands at 4:00 a.m. last night when we sat at a council meeting, and then we have had to try to examine its contents. I tried reading it as an anaesthetic for the kids last night. It didn't work very well. It wasn't approved. They have not had much time to study the contents of this publication. Without it, there is no perspective. That's right, 0's right. This is very bad, for it is simply a witness of bad practices not being able to take the time to examine the matter fully. As a result, we may not make a decision or vote on this document with our informed consent. As a result, we may encounter an incident in which we say, "Upps, we are not thoroughly familiar with it. ' There are special circumstances after this election, which are natural to consider. It has happened before that the budget bill has been delayed and not completed until April if I recall correctly, so we should not give in to the pressure to finish it just because it has to be done. There are other solutions that we can use to achieve it very well. This is one of the most important jobs we're doing at the council, that's the budget. We need to do it well. The law on government financial matters, which are very fine laws, is very happy that such work is being done on a larger budget. of the last paragraph 16. ... withauthority of the President's permission: It should be available in a computer format and in an open media, and these data should be available to all in the post-requisite fashion. They're not now. It is a sheepfold web that can be accessed and viewed by the previous financier products. The data for this bill is not in there yet. You can go to another website where you can get the pdf documents for the bill. While there you may be able to display some kind of search and find the exact location of stay fees in the bill, etc., comparison is impossible. I can't let the computer do the job it's made to do. I have to go through the bill. It's just a hand job. This takes an enormous amount of time, and we don't have much of the time. A financial minister rightly points out. We are now in the fun and interesting environment that we do not really have a government on our backs. We're a little bit independent of Congress. We live by the fact that the bill comes from the Ministry of finance, where people have a lot of knowledge about it, has been hanging over it all year, they know very well. We don't know anything about this at the council. It creates a tremendous difference in power. We should take time to examine the matter and make an informed decision about its contents. This is for next year. There's nothing that's being done here. I'd like to mention a few things I've had during this brief period of time put my eyes in when I've tried to compare the bill with, for example, the bill. Conference resolution on financial programmes for the spring approval of 2017/2021. There are some joints that go up and down. This includes e.g. This is 8 on rural society and urbanity, which is very strange to me. There's an estimated 2,027 billion. K. The financial programme, but the budget factor in the budget bill is nearly 20 billion. I don't know if there's a missing number in the budget of the budget budget or if there's really going to be ten times, it doesn't quite fit, because in 2016 it was 22 billion, there's actually a decrease. It is not easy to find out in this box what that reduction is all about. In view of this, I refer to the fact that there is a raise in the state of the host budget from a hundred dollars. Up to 300, but, as far as I can see, I don't think any of it goes to a rural society as requested in the European Union's report, I think it was, where rural society was supposed to be involved in the hosting fee. There are so many details to go through. Another factor in this brief period is that the clients, professionals who go through the bill, also have a short period of time to give their reviews. That statement will be worse than it would be if they got the time to do well and give it back to us, who are not necessarily professionals in this field, a well - thought - out report. These are some of the unfunded spending teams. It's a bit interesting to me, because now it's just a little unusual. I'm told that the transport program is often not funded, etc., but it's the same government that starts to finance it anyway. But now there were elections, now it's a completely new assembly. It doesn't necessarily have to be that the same members of Congress stay, so everybody could be new members. There's a bit of wood when it's known that elections are ahead of assuming a budget team that's not funded for a new election after election. If it were the same people, it'd be perfectly normal because they'd have to have that headache itself. So I'd like to say, as the budget bill is presented here with some rest, especially with this 1% leftovers to be returned on account of loan money, we don't really have any leftovers. There's a lot of money that'll eat up the rest of the way, we'll have to throw them out. Erase the stink of the previous council. These guys aren't in here. If inserted, they would eat up the rest of the money being returned. As a result, there's no leftovers. That's exactly what I'm saying. [[I'm telling you, they're not there.]] [[The president calls.]] I suggest we hurry slowly. It's really important to do this fast and hard. It's a big deal to get it done and make good work. We need a better view of this matter. There's a lot of work to be done, i.e. in the process of public financial legislation. We need to take the time we need to complete the job and make it a success of our cooperation with all professionals and caregivers. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u25	Mr. President. Icelanders are now in a very unusual situation. Few debates that there is a general good economic situation here. Economic growth has been good years from year to year, yet there is a flash of air. We have previously found ourselves in a similar situation, where good food seemed to be a long time ahead of us until things got worse. In the general population, the obligation is to contribute to stability. The Parliament is waiting to take a stand on the available budget bill, but it is reasonable that unless the council has more functional and government to implement matters, the council will not make dramatic changes. Under these circumstances, it is normal for 1st to pass. Funds are discussed in general and how public finance and economic management should continue for the next few years. An approved government budget was designed for the next few years. The bill available here has a share of 28 billion dollars, which is consistent with the rest of about 1% of GDP. It is very important that members of Congress do not forget this goal, as it seems to have occurred in the late fall when a single sound expenditure of up to tens of billions of dollars was adopted, with no regard for financing. The economy is soon to face various dangers. The crown's gang is headed for the survival of many companies at great risk. The amount of dollars may increase to such an extent that it has an effect to reduce the flow of tourists into the country or to increase at least less than ever. Problems in foreign lands can also have a powerful effect. The weakness of the pound following the British decision to resign from the European Union is an example of such a shock, but members of a tourist service claim to be immediately aware of a lower demand from Britain. Other political influences, e.g. Because of the recent election campaign in the United States and the National Order of a new constitution in Italy. A full study of the ways to keep the crown going is necessary. This contributes not only to stability but also to a decline in growth. In this context, there is a currency advice, which is a formal way to connect gangs with someone or a bigger one. It is important to examine and discuss the benefits and defects. A steady gang promotes prices, but not all economic problems will be solved, especially by itself. Money also needs to be responsible and consistent with the objectives of the Federal Bank. At the same time, pay increases need to be moderate and at the same time economic growth. In general, foreign economic growth is expected to be less rapid than expected because of increasing isolation and commercial barriers. This will affect the country as well. Despite recent developments, the cow's gangs are expected to continue to grow stronger. This will cause companies to move jobs of high-priests from abroad, e.g. People who have been trained by technology. This could already be done by tech companies in the country. Meanwhile, an uneducated labor force is moving into the country. On the contrary, this trend is considered desirable in order to maintain high standard of living in this country and long - term economic growth. In general, it has been true during the past few years that the exported Icelanders are beyond their return. In Iceland or in other countries, the commercial power of the public has increased beyond that of stories. In economics, though, world counts are generally dangerous even if they seem to be positive in a short period of time. Under such circumstances, it is necessary for the State to provide the means and result of the rest. During the years before collapse, the state pushed tensions when there was a need to be maintained. In recent elections, most political parties emphasized the need to increase the cost of health and school care. During the last few days of the council, transport programs and other teams were also adopted that will lead to the growth of the State between 15 and 20 billion worse than the results of a new financial bill if they are taken into account. At the same time, the estimated decrease in income tax is over the year. Based on the outlook of the Federal Bank, economic growth may be the longest in the history of the nation. On the other hand, it is certain that it will not last forever. The government's management is crucial, so it can withstand mood swings and go down a long line in the middle of its first breath. Clearly, then, the Kingdom must take the lead in showing responsibility. The budget bill makes a promise in a national financial budget for the rest of the year. 1% of GDP. There is evidence to suggest that such plans are fragile. The Kingdom has an abundance of possessions that are not directly part of its operation, and many are tempted to use them to repair their survival, e.g. by taking the extra. In this regard, both civilization and the banks have been mentioned. Such money should be used to pay off the debt of the State, just as all classes have agreed to use property for that purpose. With subsidies, the growth rate of the State, the highest in Western countries, is reduced, not because of the high debt rate, but because of its high interest level here. If not used for government management, growth is likely to continue to rise in the U.S. National Bank's operations to help control the expansion. The importance of reaching out for the sale of the State's goods is emphasized, and there is no need for such matters to be taken lightly. Not to be overlooked is the thought of an investment of nearly 50 billion dollars in the state of the Landsnet, Nationalization, and Istavia. In the coming year. The importance of individual projects is not to be debated but to emphasize two things; one to many years of stationary action following the collapse, and another to the point that state enterprises must also contribute to the reduction of job tensions. Of course, the same is true of the many essential activities of the Kingdom. We need to set our priorities and not do everything at once. It is important to deal with the government's affairs and to observe them in relation to the job market position. In the next few days, the bill for the change in the state's pension income will likely be submitted to the council at the same time as the government has some 100 billion dollars. a contribution to the pension fund of public employees. This is the State's contribution to equalizing the terms of a public and general labour market, but the parties have declared their will to adopt negotiations so that raises will be improved, not inflation. These contracts are the most important project ahead, and a new government, whatever it may be, has to go the extra mile with others to secure this stability. No one in the world can do much more for the economy in this country than for our neighbors in the North countries. Mr. President. It is clear that members of Parliament face a difficult task, both immediate and long. There's always more happiness in giving than there's in taking. Making expenses is easier than making money. Nevertheless, when formed, the main task of the colony and the government is to ensure that the success of the years will not be thwarted by any unwise policy of the State. The projects are many and needs that the political parties want to implement, and the general public certainly supports the building up of health and education systems. The harsh fact, however, is that space is not as much as most people seem to have thought. This does not mean that we should give up but, rather, that we are not afraid to work along with others in ensuring a lasting future. The labour market partners have declared their will with a broad agreement. The late bank has its administrations, and the State must not stand out by compromising its declared objectives of responsible economy. Thus, we prepare a society that is solidly supported and able to build wood for the future. During this ideal period, members of the general body can register in history by contributing to lasting stability and prosperity. The opportunity is now. True, there are many temptations, and there are many reasons for turning aside. But if he succeeds, he will be a springstone for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u26	V.E.G. President. It is now a success in Icelandic economy. It is a clear mark of the key economics. According to Iceland's Economic Institutes of November, economic growth in Iceland is 4.8% or less than the World Health Organization project's project since February of the same year, but economic growth was 4.2% for 2015. Investigating investments has also been considerably higher than the Haust Room expected in its predictions, or 21.7%, according to figures since November, but the projections in February expected a significant 12% increase. In 2015 the decrease in debt was reduced to less than 5% in value, but the decrease in debt is attributed to higher land production but also a significant decrease in the value of a debt largely due to the government's action to reduce the headstay of the secure housing bar. At the same time that the public debt has dropped, the cost of wages has increased by a quarter in the less than four years and has never been greater. The State Fund's situation has greatly improved, especially as a result of a successful government plan on execution and the handling of the swellingers of fallen banks. In the United States, inflation is low, and unemployment is negligible. The decline of unemployment in recent years is a special source of joy. National income per person in Iceland has the world's highest priority. The latest OECD figures show us equalizing in Iceland is greater than in many other places. To measure an equation, a Gini constant is used, which is an international measure of income equations. The row is from 0 which reflects the perfect equation, i.e. when everyone earns the same money, and up to 100 that indicates a complete balance. In the last two years, the Gii Index has been the lowest in Iceland of the OECD countries. It should be noted, however, that although the record in Iceland is already before 2015, various comparative countries with older numbers than new numbers, however, the conclusions in themselves should not be made that they might have some minor impact on the overall picture. In order for the state's budget to be stable, firm and stable is needed, especially when there are panels in the economy, in order to help control overheating but to achieve maximum production tension is expected at the beginning of the next year, 2017. On the other hand, the quality of the economy is going to be going to be at least the current economic growth rate. A decade and so the longest in the republican season. So there is a great challenge to the government's economy. These include inhibiting the rise in real estates, inhibiting the tourism and gang effects and, above all, contribute to the stability of the labour market. V.E.G. President. During the first part of the terms of the terms of the season, the government would be able to cover the government's expenses and thus lay the groundwork for what is taking place today. Then the foundation was laid for what the nation is now reaping. In particular, increased financial priorities in terms of social security and health and education were followed by significant maintenance arrangements on the financial edge of the state's budget in 2009-⇩2012. The budget of the current year has provided additional donations from the State Fund to promote and improve the services of the welfare system, with the growth of budgets in the year about 5%. Preservation rates are 7% higher this year than 2006. It should therefore be noted that the government's income is increasing and that the fourth year in a row is headed for a lax business. As a result, the increase in income has been used to increase donations for basic services. There has been some progress in these products, but there is no country to begin a real debt, and interest costs are still far too high. Surely, all of us can agree that it is urgent that we continue to pay off the debt of the state so that we can use the State's resources in building up to a greater extent than we can use them in subsidies for interest costs. In 2016, the third largest budget was interest cost, or 72 billion dollars. A respectable president. Let's just look at the bigger picture. What is our debt rate, and why are we paying so much interest, and what are our goals? The public's total debt accounts for about 60% of gross domestic product, which is generally excellent in comparison with control countries. However, Iceland has the highest interest cost among control countries. In order to offset the growth equation, abundant waste is needed on the primary balance of government funds that is greater than in any EU Member States. One of our main challenges for the next few years is to reduce the debt and interest of the state fund further. The objective is to reduce public debt, i.e. State funds and partnerships down to the level of law in 2020. We have been successful in reducing debt and interest costs and are going to do even better. At the same time, there is a growing need for investment in the interior, such as transporting. The change in population age and the growth in tourism calls for increased health and health costs. Various statistics suggest that our educational system is also falling back from controlled countries. College contributions are, for example, the kind of thing. A much lower percentage of the countries we'd like to compare with. The newest news of our basic schools is also a major concern, since our children are measured to be greatly reduced from other nations as to learning progress. You know, running high school is hard. We must take the news seriously and do much better. A good education system is the key to a successful nation, but it is very fragile. If our education system continues to submerged, we will be responsible for our children's poor future prospects in the international market competition. We also reduce Iceland's future prospects for international competition. It can't happen. An established government is aware of the difficult positions of the educational system and, as stated earlier, has emphasized its structure. Total high school spending has increased by 25% in real value over 2013-2016. The budget estimates that high school contributions increase by 36% in terms of real value from 2013 to 2021, that is equal to over 70% increase in each student during the period, and the college's promotions increase by 37% per year of the year in 2013-2021. Research and technical contributions to competitive funds increased by more than 60% in the season of 2013-2016. According to budgetary 2017, the increase in education and culture spending is expected, such as through funding at the base of college and high school, as well as a contribution to the art schools for the development of musical education, a total of 2.5 billion dollars. I like this increase, but I still worry about the education system. There we have our prospects for the future and that the end of this system of things must be cared for. During the last terms of the last term, the advanced government focused mainly on health repair, and there was no need for a subsequent year of surgery. Since 2013, contributions to the Hospital have increased by more than 30%. The land hospital receives $3.9 billion. more than the budget of the current year. Total contributions to the Hospital will then be nearly 59.3 billion. ... bytheprogram. By that time, there will be over 1.5 billion. magazines and equipment or more than half a billion this year. The contribution to the health system has never been higher, the cost of equipment was greatly improved, the start of a nursing home building, and the plan for the continuation of their structure was adopted. The overall rate of overall disease expenditure during 2014-2016 was increased by 38.5 billion dollars. which is a 16% absolute increase. The proposed budget for 2017 is expected to be a further increase in the quality of the management budget, of which 4 billion are additional donations for hospital management and health care support. and 1.5 billion times. On account of a new framework deal on nursing homes, a total of 7.3 billion. Despite these fine numbers, I have to admit that I am deeply concerned about health institutions in the country. Because of my best knowledge of the South and Southnes, medical institutions have had to lay off people for business management and have had many beautiful years there. I fear that in addition to a few million people between the years, a small amount will be sufficient. Southern Health Services, a growing population in recent years, are predicting a continuing increase in the number of job structures around the airport. HSS also services all passengers - and what if a plane crash occurs in the area? Must we not, then, be well - prepared and well - equipped for a local hospital? I would think so. Southland Health Organization was in trouble when the Western Hospital was united. At the top of that, the number of tourists in that area increased. There are also flourishing summer houses. The government's financial contributions to these institutions do not take into account the above factors. Still, it appears that more than the circumstances and services involved, the population of people in those areas is seen primarily. Public insurance is a large spending team and an important part of our fine welfare systems. The Generalized Congress changed the social security law last fall, but these changes include a huge increase in the expenses of the state's budget for that class, or about 11 billion. It was an additional commitment that had not been assumed in a financial program. Eleven billion is a lot of money, money that goes to those who truly need it, the elderly, and the desperate. In this context, it is nice to report that according to a new national estimate, the next year's income increase will be about 10 billion and, therefore, have a very low share of tax spending on the state's financial status and thus, the financial plan remains unchanged. I would like to mention another group that cannot be overlooked or be overshadowed by others. There are medical transports and state guard. Hospital transportation is an important part of our health care and a national safety network. The number of farms, many of them, is high - cost treatment transport, which includes the growing number of tourists. In addition to the safety of marine travelers and border patrols, there is often a need for medical transportation and for a significant role. So we have to make sure that the National Guard has enough money for business. According to the bill, 3.8 billion is indicated for the preservation. If the result is a decision, it will be very difficult for the sheep to live up to its basic legal obligations. Let us keep that in mind when we pay the budget for 2017. It is also proper to mention only the many forms of transportation. There we have broken up in maintenance for a long time, so in many places it can be very costly, and in the end, it can be very costly. The current transport program adopted by the General Assembly in the fall is 15 billion dollars. More expensive than a financial plan is expected. State income is estimated to be 28 billion. Now it is time for us senators to decide how we are going to establish these priorities, i.e. Would we like to continue focusing on the continued subsidies and thus reduce the inaccessible interest costs or would we like to take much of the money we have made and use it for urgent transport improvements? This will be our senator's assignment for the next few days. I'm running out of time. I'm in a lot of trouble. I'd like to come in on health issues for a minute. They have been very busy. We need to ask ourselves: " When discussing health matters, how do we make use of the resources we place in the litigators? What are some of the best uses of funds? Of course, all of us want better health care around the country. The Ministry of Ministry recently had McKinsey work out an assessment of the Land Hospital and our health system, comparing various factors with similar Sweden institutions. The results of this assessment were presented to the heads of the Hospital, members of Congress, and others several months ago. The report noted that there is a considerable target for us in making better use of the resources available to the health system and, in this context, the need to consider both specific system changes as well as improved monitoring, quality control, etc. within the clinics In fact, it would be very interesting to get a comparable assessment of the Icelandic education system and our major institutions there. We can keep discussing our priorities. We can debate what to do and how much to go to each case. Looks like who, and we'll be late to agree exactly how the switch is supposed to be. Hence, it is necessary to look at the bigger picture and have a clear future direction. Thus, in my opinion, it was a big step when the Council recently adopted financial policy and financial programs for five years based on new laws on public finance. V.E.G. President. The economic restoration of Iceland after the collapse of the banking system in the fall of 2008 is well under way, and economic forecasts for the coming years are practical. However, there are signs of expansion in the economy that require disciplined economic management and that require proper emphasis on public financial matters in the whole. The need, then, for a conservative policy on the growth of Kingdom spending to increase the rest and pay off debts. Yet, despite the emphasis, we must increase contributions to the interior, many of whom have become seriously weak.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u27	Madam President. Thank you. A senator with a good review of the bill and admits that I haven't read all that shit in the less than 24 hours since I had it in my hands. It is good to receive the insight of experienced senators in their situation. It reflects quite well the feeling that I have for the bill, that there is not enough work in the structure of wood, and I hope that voice is made clear to the committee in the future. It was specifically established on a transport program and how it is not expected in this bill. The same was true. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir earlier during the discussion, and I have to agree with that word, I think it's strange. I would have thought that the government plans were called to a good degree so I could find a place on this bill, and that's why I'd like to mention a different government plan that will take place in the bill without being approved. It is the suggestion that we have a warrant for the Earth's Fund to sell the Earth's Avenger in Flohafjörður because Land induction plans to activate the Uriclef following, the activation of which is still in a waiting frame program. I'm asking why. A senator would agree with me that there may have been a slight overexploitation of the Ministry of finance, that this is a source not yet time for granting until the Council has agreed on a framework with the possibility of changing the use of Uryrofos.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u28	Thank you. A senator's inquiry and document, that you've suddenly become an experienced senator, that's really fun. I've been new for a few years, and now you've become an experienced senator, it's really fun. I'm just like a whisk. A senator did not read all the bill from word to word in the less than 24 hours we have had to do so. So you're trying to put yourself in these things. It is true that there is a tremendous flaw, and there are applications for us new and recent members of Congress to improve the practices established in the Federal Administration system at the General Assembly for a very long time, that it lacks 15 billion in a large part of the process, such as a transport program to take care of the tasks we all agree to be very urgent. It's time for us young people to change Iceland and make things better, to fix this kind of work. The situation is that we are faced with this task. This is the situation, and it's ours, as I said in my speech earlier, to decide where we're going to take that money. Are we going to take them out of the income I mentioned, 28 billion, with less money to pay off debt, or what do we want to do? That's the discussion you need to discuss here. With regard to this earth at Floah carpet, or whatever. A senator mentioned, I don't trust myself to claim anything about the premise and the legitimateness of the Ministry because I don't know the case well enough. Hv. A senator may later be able to help me learn more about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u29	Madam President. I also thank the senator for his compliments, calling me one of our young men at the council, 37 years old. I'm glad that a transport program is not to be taken to a more serious position on the Committee, and I like to mention it, as it were. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir did in his business, that financing is a natural thing to consider. With regard to the framework plan, I suppose it would be completely legal for the council to decide that the Earth's funds have this authority for sale, but I would appreciate that the Council did things in the right order, that the decision to sell the earth under activation was not taken until the activation has been decided. I expect this to be considered and reviewed by the committee and to look forward to seeing the outcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u30	A respectable president. Like I say, we need to talk about this. There may be one thing when such sources are put in, and I assume that they want to have lived below them in the event that they do. For example, there has been a legal warrant for the sale of the Lands Bank for many years. It's a warrant, but it's up to us at Congress to determine how we want to handle things and how we want to cross them, as you say. I think that's why. Yes, yes, we can debate the order in which we want to do things, but I think it's in itself that most people don't mean nothing. But let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u31	A respectable president. In this unusual situation that many have mentioned today, when funding are submitted to the council without any government development, solidarity and fairness are tested throughout the discussion. I hope that there will be a guide for the coming council. With the same large number of new members of Congress, there is a big opportunity for change, with an honest manner that reflects the understanding that all elected members of the council are accountable, despite all political emphasis. We face a large and important task that is urgent. Various basics of society have not been maintained, and they have gone down from collapse. The leadings of many institutions of the community envision continued cutting down on services. A bright future spoke for system changes in terms of elections, that there were many systems in Iceland that were inhuman, unfair and served either the whole system or themselves, not the one they should serve. Now a financial bill is presented by the groups that have ruled over the last three years. They do not have much space for system changes, but we Parliamenters will continue working on them as promised. Clearly, the whole thing needs to be looked at, and it cannot be done all at once. With law No. 122/2015, on official financial matters, were set up on public financial policies until five years of age. This includes the requirement that financial and economic ministers submit two Parliamentary guidelines in this area. One is a financial policy. Its purpose is to promote the long-term economic balance, thus stabilising the economy of enterprises, households and public bodies, thus trusting the requirements for the economic use of human resources, capital and resources. When we consider the 2017 budget, it is impossible to avoid reading concomitantly with financial policies prior to 2017•2021. The policy involves newer reports that public financial policies involve not only government activities but also the activities of other parties, i.e. to operate as part of a community and a business owned by a state and a community. This will help to assess the economic impact on the activities of all public members of the national administration and to promote government interests in public. Surely, all of us will rejoice at this change and because policy plans are now set with long - term vision and goals. The changes are in my opinion significant for the better and enable us to maintain stability. In the face of long - term economic pressures, we often find ourselves in a state of chaos. New policies have been developed every year, without context to other major aspects of the economy. Often, there have been pieces of things that could have been avoided, an oscillation that has cost us too much, with many major members leaving at the same time and striving to complete projects. Now it is time to focus on economic issues in a larger context where countries and societies are moving in rhythm. There is much positive about what we can say on the side of the bill in the short future. Another is our expectations. There's no doubt an increase in budgetary donations, such as health, education, and law enforcement, but there is evidence to suggest that there is still insufficient funding in these journals. The land hospital gets e.g. 59.3 billion on budget of 2017, i.e. 4 billion more than 2016, however, the hospital needs 12 billion, according to the government's opinion, in order to carry out the necessary ministry. It will not be possible to maintain a transport plan, as we have seen many times today. If I intervene in academic affairs, which is a self-employment term, then the University of Iceland values the situation to a total of 5 billion on the average of OECD countries last year with an average of about 300 million. K. tail on the school business. If we're going to stay in the North, it's going to be 15 billion. The university has had a great success at the acquisition of special income by sharing in various projects that have yielded a third of the total school funding. The increase offered on the budget bill to the University of Iceland does not reflect the funding the school authorities feel the need to, and it is obvious that there is a significant cut-off on an offer to teach. We've fallen behind in the process of teaching, innovation, and so forth. If nothing has to be done, we will look to young people who are going to go abroad to study. Just to the side of the income. More income is expected for the state funds, a total of 1.7 billion, with an increase in alcohol, tobacco, and fuel curses. At that time, a triple check in the cost of beds is also expected, which leaves a hundred dollars. of 300. It's estimated to be 300 million. K. this year, which, of course, is a drop in the ocean compared to the structure required within the tourism service. It must be said that in the short future, we were hoping to make more money, e.g. ... withan increase in hunting fees. It's drawn up a lot, and we want to put our weights on the scales to change it. The overall result is that more than 28 billion revenues are expected to be produced during the year. After all, the nation's economic situation needs to be balanced. There's a lot of talk going down on the home book and on all of us. How happy we are, then, that we have finally reached policies and goals that reach the entire public population! Thus, the public as a whole can go in rhythm to create economic stability. We're celebrating. Yet, there are still many solutions. In particular, I would like to mention the housing problems of young people who have no chance of obtaining their own housing and, in fact, not renting. This is not exactly the subject of the budget bill, but it tells us that despite economic growth, we have made a lot of money, e.g. With a great increase in tourists, things aren't very good luck here. I cannot help but mention my first talk to the local community at the Council. In Kópavogi, where I have been privileged to participate in construction for the past few years, the local society has decided to offer families over the income markets to remain in social housing, borrowed to cover the gap so that they can buy the apartments they have been living in. Thus, there has been a new option that allows people to bridge the gap between social assistance to obtain their own home with less cost and more smoother means than simply to dump it and throw it on the street. Children continue to make good progress in school, although their family's economy is not out of their environment. This can lead to a discussion about the switch between state and rural society, which I plan to hang out with and take in another area. A respectable president. This financial bill won't blow the nation's brains out, we can be thankful for it. The challenges we face are big and urgent, and it is clear that we need to set priorities. But I remind you that the state funds and economic growth are not necessarily the home textbooks of ordinary people. Balance is needed there, as in other areas. We in a bright future are ready to do that. We've broken up our sleeves and asked for good cooperation on big things.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u32	Madam President. There are truly exotic circumstances at the General Assembly now when a panel is made without government development and senators discussing a financial bill without knowing what the greater things will look like that could be approved, or what could be the potential greater things that would come together for a change in the bill. It's also an exotic new production on the budget bill. The members of Parliament obtained only less than 24 hours to study before the discussion began. For the first time, the sentence is in accordance with the official financial law. But the budget bill is neither neutral nor any government bill, as some have claimed. The bill is based on financial policy and the government budget, which lost more part in the last election. Thus, the financial bill is a political document based on the policy of the forwarding government and the Independence Party. Since the fall of 2008, we have put forth great effort to work on economic stability and stability, it is of utmost importance that the government's national financial policy and the national financial policies of the Bank of Iceland work together to reduce the economy, the Duke of the bus in the same direction. The petition noted, in its review of financial policy, that the bank sent a budgetary committee on May 21, U.S.A., that if it is not considered to reduce the investments of public citizens, other expenditures need to be reduced or to obtain the official increase in income, e.g. ... witha higher taxance. It was clear to the approval of the General Assembly by the end of May that the weaknesses of financial and financial policies were on the income side and were created because the government had reduced various taxes and expenditures during the term. Fishing taxes were significantly reduced, capital tax deduction and energy taxation were also reduced, the equal role of the income tax system was reduced, and tourists were given off the price tax. At that time, a special bank tax was collected that went directly to the creditors to pay off insurance loans, although only some homes, most of the richest debts. This was done at the same time as there is a great need for investment in transport and welfare services that are urgent in the school. There has not been a turning point with the financial bill, and the Conspiracy severely criticizes this priorities. The Union stresses changes in taxes and expenditures so that there will be room for the restoration of the health system and better schools, for transportation and law enforcement, and for those who rely on insurance agencies and for children's families. We now have in the treatment of the council an opportunity for social stability to match the economic and social equation. It is the best way to improve the standard of living in the country and contribute to the peace of work. It's a responsible economy. Madam President. The financial bill is based on two draft proposals, economicism, and the financial agenda adopted in August. Since their arrival at the end of April, legal laws and pact proposals were adopted, resulting in financial evasion. The bill takes into account the law, but it was not taken into account, for example, a very important Parliamentary arrangement that is a transport program. The changes in transport programmes were agreed together at the General Assembly, which also carries the budget, but the costs for which they do not fit into the budget bill. V.E.G. A financial minister put it this way, since it has often happened before that the transport program has not been fully financed. It was now that changes in the transport program were agreed together, and members of the Parliament worked hard to achieve compromise on a better transport strategy, since they could not get rid of it. But changes are not financed in the budget bill. Thus, the bill needs contributions for the maintenance and development of roads in many parts of the country, for public transportation and ports, for the research and work of a tunnel, both in the West, and in the North, and for research in the Gynnis of the Hornfjörður, for example. A total of 15 billion dollars is missing. to agree that the transport program is fully funded by 2017. This has to be added by changing the bill on both the remuneration and the income side to maintain balance. Another very important concern for the general public could not be found on the bill, but it was for health - care providers. The Committee's Committee of Health Committee, with a bill on health insurance that discussed the payment system of individuals in the medical system, suggests that the Commission's assessment is that the bill calls for additional funding for the new payment system. To discuss the financial side of the case, a health minister came to the committee at the final review of the case approved in June. There, the minister reported on plans for the patient's payment participation to be less than agreed to the regulations that follow the bill. Final figures are determined by next year's budget, but it would be based on the lack of a maximum health insurance budget of 50,000. Every year, but not 95,200, as said in the waves. The committee hailed a minister's declaration and stated in the committee's opinion that she felt that she had the confidence that the increase in funds would bring the budget of 2017, so that the maximum pay of the health insurance would not be more than 50,000 dollars. every year. But the funds are not in the bill, so it has to be changed. In the event of an election, a great deal of discussion was made about the cost of patient participation, and the Conspiracy has spoken of the failure of major and progressive steps to make health care free. The payment system agreed at the end of the spring convention should be established on February 1, next year, but this does not cover all health care. For example, dentists, psychology services, travel expenses, and aid tools fall outside the system. It would be preferable for all health care and medications to fit into one system of payment. By the law, the physical, occupational, and speech training was dropped under the general system for improvement. The maximum cost of health care costs is all too high, especially in view of the lack of full medical costs. The fact that it will be abused and the opportunity to direct it in the condition of the currency is often objected to by the fact that it will be controlled. In this context, it can be noted that if patients delay medical and other health care care, the cost of community care is very high. Such control is primarily directed against those who do not have medical care. The price controls them from going to a doctor sooner than possibly too late. For those with sufficient financial resources, there is no need to think twice because of the payment and thus their payment has no effect on them. Madam President. In the United States, child reforms have become almost like the strength to the poor and very different child reforms in other countries. The aim appears to be that child reform will be supported only by the most earned families, and it follows the International Cash Fund's proposal to revise the child - reform system. The sea advised the government to simplify the system and direct payments to low - income agencies, with a higher rate of decline compared to pay. The fund also suggested that single - parent families be paid no higher than domestics. In this way only one fixed money will be paid for children under 18 years of age and with no more than three children. Such an arrangement is nowhere else known in the North countries. Interestingly, when it comes to other Norwegian countries, the government consulted the International Cash Fund's ideas on child development. In general, the benefits are not related to income, and their goal is to match the status of children with those who do not share children. Unemployable child reforms also reduce female independence and employment participation less than income - related benefits. Young families in the North will remember the support the child support they give, and their equal role is important for society. The Norwegian child - reform system is our role model for the average man, leaving them with good experience for children and their parents. They have to be behind Icelandic family members and raise their child - rearing so that others will enjoy them. In the coming years, expenses for interest are expected to decrease gradually as income increases and debt increases. There will be an annual increase in the financial and voluntary limits in the system, allowing the overall contribution to the system to remain the same as the real value. Along with the so - called correction during the last term, the government reduced growth reforms, lost child benefits, and even made the money cuts more cruel. Those who had previously fallen within defined interest rates saw a slight decrease in their payments, but the growth benefits are much lower. Many homes are thus left behind with much less provision. The idea of improving growth is to increase the provision of low and medium income and participate in the high interest costs laid on people by deciding to keep the minimum independent currency in the world, the Icelandic crown. This equation should gradually be eliminated according to the financial programme adopted just before elections by the then majority of the Generals. The problem of housing markets is increasing. Young people cannot leave their parents'homes because prices for housing and rent are too high and apartments are small. People who want to have their own home are increasingly competitive with companies that provide lodging services for tourists. So it is absolutely necessary to engage in the construction of more public rented rooms than stock contributions in the budget bill are expected. The minimum goal is to build 1,000 common rented apartments a year, which is to make up for a total of 2 billion dollars. in 2017. Madam President. The situation of the hospital is that there is reason to worry about the safety of patients if there is no rapid improvement in the coming years. The contributions laid out in the budget for hospital services will not be sufficient to keep lost from the present and will therefore be prescribed for cuts. This would not be a pleasure, for the conclusion would be in a lamentable contradiction to the appeal of the public and the campaign of all classes. Patients have increased as a result of the nation's older age, but the development of these developments has not been followed by hospitalisations and clinics in recent decades. In contrast, the share of patients in the system has been progressively increasing. A lot of discussions have been made about doctors'status in Iceland, and worrying that young doctors will not return after school. The situation of nurses is no less disturbing. In the next three years, approximately 800 retired nurses. Instead, only 450 graduates, many of whom will choose other jobs. Other classes that are mostly filled by women also require government attention, such as radiologists, physical therapists, and biotechnology experts. Even now, there is a need to take action, expand the university in this area, and assume the financial costs involved. The high school situation has been difficult in the past few years. In the pre - collapse years, economics took place at high school. When there was a requirement for maintenance of a crash, very little fat was to be cut. The problem of the high school system has to be on its way to the next three years of school. The university position looks bad, and if changes are not made, the university will have to reduce the number of student courses and/or the number of students. The continued lack of funds will have a major negative impact on scientific work, progress in employment and Iceland's competitiveness. I also remind you that it's 11.1 billion. The contribution to social security is not merely a system modification by team of improvements and a change in proportions. About half of this amount is a legal increase due to the general pay raise in the country that most other people were paid from May 1 this year, but now they are able to find their way to an increase in social security. Madam President. Clearly, measures must be taken to finance the transport programme and lower roof in the patient's payment system, as well as to make significant contributions to health care, school, and other infrastructures to provide citizens and tourists with the necessary services and security. This will only be done by making further money. Therefore, the General has a short-term job to find solutions that work, both on the pay and on the side of the budget bill, and take into account social and economic stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u33	A respectable president. We will discuss the budget under very unusual circumstances in an unconventional way. The discussion gives evidence that we are in a lot of trouble, each and every member of Congress, in a situation I think it's very good to be on occasion. I think it's important that people are aware that everyone on the boat is on board, and then it's important that they draw evenly out of it so that they don't get hurt. We have a new assembly with no formalities, and it's well into December, far beyond the usual time frame of discussion about sheep riding and budgeting at a time. This would be quite enough, that situation, but we also have new laws on income and money and how to make financial laws. When we face all of this, we face a serious problem. So I think it's very important that we talk about the budget and how it's done now that there's no more or less of it here, whether we talk about the senators of this hall or members of the council. The budget, in itself, is all in small pieces. A bill of what we are now discussing is based on all the main points of a financial program adopted last summer as a concierge. Then there have also been some legal adjustments that must be taken into account. Thus, a large financial arrangement must be established if it is to be handled successfully. This need to be built up quickly and well. Well, she's not automatically in hand. However, I'd like to reiterate that in recent months we have produced laws in a solidarity of the council. I think it's important that we maintain unity and the will to work on a more careful plan and make it so that we don't tear it apart because of a particular situation at one time. That's not an option. Our plans and legislation have severely limited our work frames and plans for work. We too have just gathered here after the election. We've all just spoken with voters, with the Americans, listening to their emphasis, hopes, expectations. In recent years, we have emphasized priorities. We have set our priorities for health care first. We have also listened to the locals in recent months, what their hopes and expectations are. I allow me to state that in every important matter, it is also their priorities, because we should reflect and reflect the will in here. I reiterate that there is a correct way for emphasis, to change the real and lasting emphasis on the budgets each time, and to have a financial bill at a time must have a proper approach. So it is not possible to bend the sails around now, even if only because of this brief period of time but also because of the procedures that we have entered into the legislation. First of all, we have brought into the laws of the government, where we deal with such factors as tilting and how to deal with them, where we are dealing with debt and debt criteria and goals. All of this keeps us in line. We are also required to support the government's financial policy. We're stuck with the fact that there's not a new government, we may not have much to look at there, and we're also supposed to support the financial policy proposed at the spring Summit. It is, in effect, the budget required in a new law on government interest. In the spring council, we are required to deal with the factors that we have so often managed in the autumn council so far, on expenses, on the side of the budget, which is actually set up in the spring council. We are not privileged to go through the discussion because of the position we are in today. To me, we need to keep clear of all this process and in mind when dealing with this assignment. This does not mean, however, that we can't make suggestions for making changes in order to achieve a solid agreement to provide budgets at the specified time, no less than that, but it has to be within all the ranges I've traced. All of us may have high expectations and ideas about changes and emphasis, not only for increased expenses, but also for increased savings and up - to - date reimburse the amount of money we have from each time. We are to deal with 34 topics that are divided into 100 different categories of subjects. For them, an article in the bill is given here. There is the work to be done, how we change the suggestions discussed. It is in the new spirit that we are primarily concerned with the factors involved and are variations from an approved financial program. We've mentioned all of our major mails, transport plans, increased health expenses, etc. Many fine talks have been given today in the spirit that I can think of. But we also need to be careful that there is a balance in these matters, making sure that we do not increase expenses simply because we feel that there is a great need. We need to prepare it too, make plans for it. If I especially mention health matters, a good and clear report and an analysis was provided that we have well financed health systems, are in a good position in those areas. Of course, we'd all like to do better, not contradict it. But with the right way to do things, we need to decide how we will promote the increased use of funds. That job's not in the hands, is it? It is not simply possible to wave up the amount of money. I will also allow myself to resign from this program right now that although I understand the managers of the Land Hospital, the fine and important health care agency, I am not going to let go of saying that I too could give talks on the Western Institute or South American Health Organization that could be much more in need of additional funds. We must always put this into context. We cannot handle the discussion as if it were exactly 11 billion need for land hospitals and then forget to talk about other health institutions. I'm not drawing the Land Hospital forward specifically to complain of him in any way in general discussion, but only to control that we need to be able to discuss our important work here in general. This financial bill is a direct result of the fiscal policy adopted in spring and, in fact, an elimination of it. In many ways, the bill is defective. We know this, and we will undoubtedly find ourselves in the work of the money committee for the next few days. But we cannot object that there is a tendency to contribute substantially to various issues that we can list, social security, increase the money to health, and to so many other factors. Surely, we always want to do better than be, as it were. A financial minister gave an excellent account of his history, the use of stomach issues during expenses. This is in my mind the work that the budget is facing over the next few days and the council is all in its place. It is noteworthy that here a good mind would develop for a united effort to walk with great responsibility. I believe the members of the committee are in trouble. It will be done by a legal committee. I have announced to the members that we will have to work hard and fast in preparation for 2nd. The budget and the changes we will undoubtedly agree to make, so we will make up for the next year's budget. For example, the fatigue of increased expenses, the fatigue after major road growth, after large increases in educational donations, must also be considered in view of the fact that in recent years, especially in recent years, we have already paid tens of millions of dollars for collective agreements. In itself, it is a very positive matter, but unfortunately, while we are getting through that scrap, we can't increase much in other areas. During our last budget, we put 30 new billions of dollars on the rise in pay. They tend to get through such projects. Still, we continue our course of action this time. We're about to finish here with a bargain deal. We also have the key role of maintaining stability in our country so that the high pay increases will be left with the people, so we will not go back to the unstableness that takes back the benefits of the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u34	Madam President. I like to hear it. The chairman of the legal committee speaks of a solidarity on the grand task ahead. I hope that that spirit will return to members of the Committee, all but easy for the next few days. I agree with him that if we don't know what to do, we're going to be able to deal with this plan, which part of the bill is based on, but I have to remind you that even if we don't know it, we're going through the politics and how defective we feel this bill is, as the senator mentioned. We may have different emphasis on this subject. On the other hand, I'd like to go back to the strategy. I'm impressed with the law on public finances, e.g. that in 20. The law says that policy takes account of the achievement of goals, responsibilities, timing, use of funds, and the emphasis on shopping. As a result, we have tables for action in almost every subject in the bill. Therefore, it is a small possibility that no functional goals should be found. Now I don't know if there are more in the document, but I get involved in a point in chapter 10,20, about religion, where there are 6.4 billion below. All the goals involved are that we have religious freedom, which are fundamental human rights, which we all agree on, but action is needed to achieve them the objective of this entire percentage of government interests. I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees that such failures are desirable in the bill. Will the committee possibly consider whether there are any more errors? Counts 'em out. A senator that can be corrected?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. I have no doubt that there are more errors in this document than there are in any other way. A senator mentions. The new structure, and the entire budget, is a huge project. Just like the one we found in a meeting with a guy. This morning the Department of Legal Affairs has been, since the law was agreed on, to adopt the necessary practices. It was also shown in the presentation that it would likely take five or ten years to complete the new system. I notice that, and especially attracted the attention of local leaders to it last spring, because I don't think everyone has quite figured out how big this change is, that the money debate is going on this spring. We received unbelievably few envelopes during our discussion last spring, and the harassment over the changes was extremely little to the committee, I'd like to mention it. That only tells me one thing, i.e. not everyone has a finger as to how the new arrangement works. You know, about a question or two. I'm going to let myself keep them and keep them asking questions to the Ministry right away. The Board of Justice meets with the Ministry in their meetings, asking them specifically about this schedule and tablet. But I draw back to the fact that it will take a very long time to implement a new practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u36	President. Thank you. The chairman of the legal committee for his speech and especially acquiesces to the word "steward " and" fast. " I hope, in view of my first speech, that we stress to do things well. Doing things quickly can cause a mistake, I took an example of the head of the Parliament's budgetary team, of rural areas, and of urban areas that speak about 2 billion and 22 on the budget. It is either rising and going outside the council arrangement or making mistakes in the council arrangement. These are not the only examples, as mentioned in the previous talk, since figures are probably a little bit wrong. It's really important that we go really well and carefully over the bill as it is now, and we can do better than fast. Yeah, it's a time pressure, but it's not unique. There have been other solutions in such a time pressure. I find it more important to do things well, and I look forward to such cooperation within the Committee that started this morning and is promising. I would like to hear the president's opinion of this part of the work being done in that room.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I said yes, fast and good, but still no faster than we can handle. I think it's key. I find that circumstances are unusual. It's been a week of December. We need to work in an orderly fashion. On the other hand, what's different now from the other budgets we're always looking at in the rearview mirror is that we have a few reporters this time. It is simply assumed in the new layer. They will be much fewer than we've known before, but of course we'll review each Ministry's lawsuits and ask the questions the committee wants to explain and then discuss. But I know and give myself to realize what makes peace in these matters, how to work on it, and how to cooperate about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u38	President. Thank you. The answer is made by the chairman of the budget committee. He mentions reviews that will be sent to the Committee. They also have less time to review the budget and give their reviews. They will be less detailed than those we might be able to share with a financial committee. Somehow, we need to make sure that the quality of the process and the narratives we receive and the data from are as good as we can do to minimise mistakes, although only to prevent the introduction errors that it appears to be in the current controversies.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u39	A respectable president. I'd like to remind you that in all the main points, the budget is based on the financial resolution that was approved last summer. She had a very extensive narrative and detailed discussion. This is primarily the variation from the conclusion that we need to discuss. I don't think there's any big unexpected news in the budget bill that can make it possible for the members of the Committee and the Council to find out what's going to happen, but I also have sympathy for the managers to work on the reviews. We are discussing a budget bill that we personally received for about 24 hours ago. The discussion is naturally colored in some way. The work will then look forward to our doing this under very unusual circumstances. But I don't think that's gonna stop us from doing as well as we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u40	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of finance for his history as well as for my fellow members for very interesting and detailed talks. I considered it a reason to come up here, although the matter was not specifically discussed with the ministers at 1 Corinthians 3: 1. In order to discuss the main issues that the candidates and I brought through the campaign campaign, we would consider it important to go to the season and to some extent have to reflect more on the budget bill. There were three main issues that we put the most emphasis on. We spoke about the importance of further increasing the social equation by developing fundamental changes in the income tax system, where we were particularly looking at a decrease in taxes in homes with less income and medium income. I think it's long time for a review of the income tax laws. We can see that if we open the law what has been done to make many changes in them, and I regularly hear from those who cooperate with the law that they have become very difficult to work on because of all these changes. We candidates have emphasized the need to increase taxes on what we call super-paying and super-babundant. I'd also like to mention that we've been ready to examine changes in the capital tax and continue working on the ideas that the Minister of finance has. information on how we can ensure that our resources, including the energy resources, will be making more money. This is something I think it would be very interesting if the council -- now is the power in our hands -- it could be agreed to go to that job. I'd also like to mention, though it wasn't one of our priorities, that a similar job could be taken to the country's interest level, but there was some debate over that at the campaign. Much has been discussed about the importance of going to an inside building, the need for us to go to the construction of a new hospital. However, we candidates emphasized that it was right for us to go to construction, but a reevaluation of the location was to be made before we made a final decision to go to the hospital for further development at the Ring Road and even to consider the possibility of building a new hospital elsewhere in the capital area. Then there's the third point I wanted to give special attention to. I have noticed that while transportation has been discussed to a considerable extent, it seems that transportation is often being discussed in places other than the capital area where most of us live. As a senator of the Southwestern district, I intend to discuss only transportation in the capital area. We all know that it takes a lot of time to go around and traffic is very difficult. I was just at the main meeting of my partner's Association in the capital area where I was just signing a contract for the preparation of the high-seature civilisation movement in the capital area or a city line. It highlighted the conversation with us, the government, and to ensure that this project would be carried out, and although the kind of equipment we are going to use in the city line might not have been completely nailed yet, it would be very important to improve public transportation in the capital area. I believe that this is something we would like to keep working at at at the same time, but as we have noted, it is assumed that in the next 25 years the number of people in the capital area will be about 70 thousand, corresponding to the population of Hafnarfjörður, Kopavogs, and Gardares, and I am not convinced that it would be enough to look at the city line. That is an important factor, but there are many other major tasks to consider. A transport program called the possibility of a private initiative. At least we need to discuss whether there is something we could agree on. It was also noted that in the process of transport, a number of other projects, especially fewer cross - cut conventions, were provided to help reduce traffic distances. The representatives of the Hafnarfjörðurs pointed out that there were at least Three misunderstandings that would be very important to go to, during a transport program, were looked to Smokejanes Way and Krysavík, but also pointed to the Obscurator and, of course, the possible misapplication of Fönun and the Smokeynes Way in general. I think we need to be open to explore all possible ways to reduce traffic in the capital area. It's not only a question of the increase I pointed out but also a projection of the population of tourists, which most of them seem to be in rental cars, and they really are involved. I want to go over the budget bill a little. In this fine dornran, there are documents that I am truly responsible for, which I came to the processing of, which hear under the social and housing minister. There are two cases that can be said to see from the text that I would have liked to spend more or at least that we could get together to make sure that we put money in the season. There are changes in the birthworm system and its growth. It is indicated in the text that we have been working on a bill and in a review process. There are also changes in the pension system. For the same reason, we have looked forward to making many changes that were made for the elderly in the fall. It is estimated that changes in the biofuels can cost between 33/4 billion dollars. This year, and the changes in the birthworm system will have been fully valid, even though it would not be until $221, it may cost between $10 and $12 billion. This is where we're talking about a lot of money. Then I'd like to discuss another cost factor I've heard other members mention, and I'd like to have a look at this traffic, which is facing the housing system. There have been indications from the labor movement, and those involved in the housing contracts felt that it was necessary to add money to 1.5 billion general apartments to ensure that the number of apartments promised in terms of collective agreements. Not only did the council make specific changes in the law that resulted in further costs, but we have also simply seen that building has cost more than the number of people thought. Then it is also important to secure funds for the so - called 1.5% loans that have been used for social housing. But in view of the knowledge that is in Iceland, I want to say that it is important that we take care of ourselves and not start building too much, even though much is called for a house right now. Some of the things that are part of the Ministry of Health, but they're not under me. They're the health Department. In a way, we accept the consequences of disease, because people get sick, through social security, and I think it's very important that the committees find some way to ensure that patients' income support systems will reduce the patient costs. I think it is also very important, though we very much hear the most of our major health care facilities, the Land Hospital, that we are looking to research on the causes of disability. We find that Iceland's main causes of disability, e.g. in men, are mental disorders. This was shown in a recent study of disability in young people, and it showed the importance of improving our mental - health and rehabilitation services. We have to do everything possible, as soon as we add the interest of people who have lost their skills to help people get their skills back and get back to the job market. It is said in the document that the health - care minister proposes that a rehabilitation policy will be developed, this will be done in 2017. While there are about 5 billion in health - related rehabilitation, it is very important to forget that we are putting billions through the contributions of employers, pensions, and the state into the collected funds of a healthcare professional, and it is very important that there is a good conversation between those who are doing work - related rehabilitation and health - related rehabilitation. On that basis, we can help people regain their skills and get back into the workforce so that they can continue their own lives even if they get sick or suffer an accident. This is something I think very important to be concerned about. I have requested that we meet at the council and consider how we can legalize the laws on the affairs of disabled people and social services, as we fully validate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People in the autumn. It is important that we complete the adjustment required to take the next steps regarding the covenant. I hope over the next few days we'll understand what the council can get together, whether we can legalize the changes, even the user - controlled personal assistance and other factors involved in changing those laws. As most people have noticed, I've been through a large budget team. It's often that way, and I found it so clearly when I listened to my partner's talk, a respectable president, that I wasn't the only one to talk about my expenses at all times. I'm going to get to finish my story by mentioning where I could possibly make my income. I wish we'd discuss it only as well as what a vision we have on it. Although we're going to discuss the bandorm of finance with regard to the income side, the entire package is natural in this document, both income and expenses. We've seen it, good if it didn't come of that yesterday, that economic growth is more than expected. Of course, the amount of government income will be affected. I think it's also important that we go through unemployment projections and if there's a chance that there might be a chance of further reducing the cost of employment insurance. We can see in the composition of those who are now on unemployment list that there is a very high percentage of long-term employees. This refers to people who have been on record for more than six months, which is about half, 46%, in October. The percentage of over a year is 25%. I've asked a labour agency for suggestions on how to assist this group specifically, and then we also have a high percentage of people of foreign origin, far beyond the percentage of population. We need to consider whether we need to take special measures in these groups and help them find employment and therefore reduce expenses for employment insurance. I would also like to point out that there is much better going on at a camp loan fund than before, and one of the things a financial committee could consider are possibly more of the money paid by the institutions owned by the state. It would likely be possible to examine ever since the financial institutions that the State has acquired. True, we have always been very careful when it comes to earning money. But I think we may have been overly cautious. In some cases, it may be wise to cut off financial companies and loan agencies owned by the State. And then, of course: If we continue to struggle to reduce interest costs, it will also affect the state's position. We should make sure that we have a little more money available. Then there are a few smaller cases that I assume we at the Ministry of Health are given the opportunity to communicate to the committee, much lower than I've been to mention here. Finally, though, I want to mention two things that I am so happy that we finally found a budget. [[The president calls.]] There is a new treatment home that will hopefully open up in the capital area next year and that we have gained extra money from the security stakes, while the group that needs security is the most vulnerable of the people we help.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u41	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech in which she crossed her class but also spoke as the acting minister of the seminary. There are some points in the first part of that talk. A senator and a chief. A minister, to picture where money could be collected to apply, which I fully agree with her. There are taxes on what she called super wages and then various energy taxes. At the same time, I agree with the highest. A minister regarding the need to be open to means to reduce transportation in the capital area. It has to do with the discussion that has taken place on the underdeveloped transport strategy. But it's because of a case that's in the highest court. Minister I asked for the word. I'd like to ask them more questions, and at the same time, I'd like to direct them to questions. The legal committee, that she takes this into account in her work. The first thing I'm going to ask about money in NPA. On page 18. Two hundred and forty - four million are mentioned as dropping. K. temporary warrants, however, provide 65.8 billion. K. budget of space in a work-work program on the user-controlled person assistance. I can't find any more on the MPA and no more money here on the bill, but there's already a deal going on and financing up to 150 million. K. so I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she can answer if money is found in this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u42	A respectable president. The improvement for the test project on the user-controlled program is up at this year's end. There's a reason why I've contacted all members of the council and requested that we meet and have a conversation with the European Union about how we can get on the legal basis of this service, and I went through it in my speech. It must be part of the work ahead of us to work together on how we will legalize the Service program, but then, when it is available, to ensure the needed funds and how we will do so. We've had extra funds that have gone directly through the project management, but then, of course, it's been so that there's been a lot more money that's gone through these rural services. So the experiment itself has cost much more than the money the state has been putting into it. This has been pointed out, and people have studied it in other countries - the North countries may have been the main example - that the introduction of user - controlled personal assistance has been very expensive and that other countries have done so more in a more practical way. I'm glad we're having this conversation, and I'm about to start telling about the financing now. It's part of the opportunity we now have that we have certain innovation activities here at the council on what we can get together about. And don't forget that part of the new law is that you have to agree with your rural society on how to make sure that you're not piled up on your new commitments without their ability to live up to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u43	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I think it's very important in this, whether the council succeeds or whether it's over the head to legalize the user - controlled personal assistance for the years, that we assume that the funds are guaranteed in the 2017 budget for those who already have a contract, which will run out at the end of the year. I believe that's the minimum, and I hope I get the highest. An active minister with me in speaking for that. This is especially what I want to talk about. The Gaming Committee, that she has a good grip on this. As I said here in my previous answer, I don't see better than it didn't have to at least. 85 million. K. In order to have the equivalent in this group of subjects that we have had this year. I'd like to take this opportunity to ask the highest possible question. Minister to cabinet. She has been the minister of this seminary all the last terms, so she knows very well all of his interiors. On page 18. 424 is suggested to reduce the legal rights of the tribe by 2.9 million. K. according to the government's decision on the decline of government spending. I would like to ask: We have signed the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. [[The president calls.]] It is known that there will be changes, some with regard to attitudes and others in support of money - in the circumstances where the requirement for enforcation or the reduction of the state's spending into this category? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u44	A respectable president. It has not been easy to understand how a group of disabled people has been financed. This is related to the decision regarding the transfer. We've been working through it steadily. We have also been constantly adding money to the seminary, but we have also been, like a dog. A senator points out, to expand the ministry. As a result, this has cost more. Asking whether or not it is proper to comply with a requirement. It has been the responsibility of each minister to implement a general requirement that has been established by the Ministry. True, during the last two years, social security and employment insurance insurance have been left out, and it will be a significant step in which money needs to be found, even if it is a low percentage. However, it has also been the emphasis reflected in this budget bill that money cannot be expected on the basis of a law that the Council has not approved and has not been developed through, i.e. how it should be done. There's no such thing as a political treaty. So now we are primarily seeing what we can get together. If the members of all Congress can agree on certain legal adjustments, I expect we can communicate it to a financial committee and ask for money to ensure that we can make that transformation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u45	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you very much. Minister for the talk, and particularly for transportation in the capital area. You see, many people believe that a world of Congress is too preoccupied with transport in the country and that transportation is not a problem in the capital area. As important as transportation in the region is, when people arrive in the capital area, it is important that all do not remain stuck in traffic with contaminating pollution and delays. V.E.G. A minister specifically mentioned the city line. I'd like to highlight this important project. It was last Friday at the main meeting of the Conspiracy Association in the capital area as mayor and all mayors in the capital area signed an agreement on how to work on this matter. It is also important to make it clear to the United States that this is what all rural governments in the capital area agree to be the most urgent transport project in the next few years. V.E.G. A minister also mentioned Diving Ways and other misappreciative events that may be necessary. I would like to impress on us that we cooperate with our organization and follow its priorities. The city line, as it has been mentioned, can never be merely a community project. The government will always have to, for we have and do a lot of rooting in the capital area and the natural establishment of the government. I thank you for the discussion and for the urgent need to make special study of these matters, as I believe that they will be very much on our next session. But I can't help it now that I'm here to mention that the cooperation between the road generation and the rural areas in the capital area over the growth of public transport has, unfortunately, never been made up of money. I think it's like last year's amount, but it's not taken into account in terms of inflation development, which is a clear rule on the first page of the contract. [[The president calls.]] I want to direct it to what? The budget is to examine the role of members of the Committee to review the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record, I wouldn't say the answer, but I would say that I'm under my emphasis. Of course, it is important to improve the transport around the country, though, there are still a majority of its inhabitants living on the southwest corner. I simply don't feel that it takes me as long or even less time to leave the bank in Reykjavík and at Seleucus and get out of Hafnarfjörður to the city. It tells us that there are a number of tasks that we need to consider that in the capital area, and it is reasonable to ensure that the voices of our senators, who are numerous in the capital area, are heard in transports and the voices of members of Congress on the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u47	A respectable president. It can truly be said that the warm winds of the nation's economy, even as the people of the land themselves, in these days and that the analysts seem to agree that this will continue, at least for now. In addition, conditions in the economy have not been better for decades. Land production is now about 8% higher in real value than before collapse. Unemployment is negligible, and this year there is going to be a record of record levels since the last period of training, such as the new registration of human vehicles and international travel. It is in such circumstances that economic management in every nation is tested, and in this case the economic economy has rarely failed in the modern economy. It is important that we keep this in mind now, for despite a good year's trip, many old storm clouds have begun to rise on the horizon. So in my speech, I would rather focus on this danger and our responsibility there than on the individual forces of a financial bill, now on the 1st. The main responsibility for economic management is and will always be given by two Member States, a domestic labour market, with the collective agreements made there, and by the General, by the framework of the government's financial markets. As the examples have repeatedly shown, so today's Seder Bank's money policy can never control the strength these sides can unleash. A good team of labour markets and government unions with the UN funds policy is the key to a concerted economy. These factors, in particular, lay the groundwork for continuous price at low interest levels. In an interview with the Speggi on May 4, 2010, Jónas H. Haralz, one of our foremost economists, criticized our successes in the consistent economy. By permission of the President: In Iceland such agreements were increasingly neglected as the 20th century wore out. After 1995, it is not possible to talk about the uniform government of the economy. In recent years, everyone saw a conflict between government and money policy. Those words apply even now. One of the main criticisms that was presented on economic management during the last two cycles was the maintenance of the government's affairs. The same economic failures were repeated both times. By the time taxes were dropped, there was a significant increase in the financial value at the same time. Both worked to further amplify the economic expansion. It is important to keep that in mind when discussing Kingdom interests now. They are and will always be the main support of economic management, and all that the Allied Council has is directly involved. We need to approach that subject with responsibility and firmness. Despite six years of continuous economic growth, however, there is a better balance in the economy today than in most cases. Unlike many earlier economic growth, the economy has been driven by an increase in exporting goods and services, but mostly in the ministry. The development of tourism has changed the structure of the economy, and new and handsome support has been provided for our exports. As a result of these changes, exports as a proportion of land production rarely have been observed at any time higher. Our exports in recent years have been more than half of the land's production compared with the more than 30% in the previous two decades. In this regard, we are now as good or better than any other northern country after being their boat for decades. This is the main reason why balance is now much better than ever before. Our business in foreign lands is a good deal of rest. Businesses and homes have new ones to pay off debt and now stand strong for years. Intensification has increased substantially and despite high increases in salary over production during the past few years, inflation has remained low due to recovery of the Icelandic kroner. Even if we were well, we cannot assume that the economic conditions will be so much longer to our advantage. Clearly, there has already been much greater growth than can be achieved in the long run. This has now increased by almost 20% in just two years, while wages have increased by 18%. Both have a major impact on the cost of operating and the availability of export companies, and there is no way that tourism can handle such changes in such a short period of time. We have quickly changed from cheap destination to one of the most expensive in Europe. As a result of this development, we are weighed by the basis that our export work has been taking place in recent years in our economic development. As in past times, this trend is not sustainable and will no doubt end in the same way as before if no intervention is made. It is often said that strong bones are needed to cope with good times, and that is appropriate today. The high levels and remuneration rates have resulted in considerable growth increases in the Federal Bank of the past eight months. The bank has also repeatedly criticized the permanence of the state's financial affairs under the present circumstances. In this way, you can read an unusual message from the bank's last meeting, where the main reasons for a growth reduction that is thought to be the full basis are referred to as the uncertainty of the maintenance of the state of finance after the election, and the recent decision of the jury on the remuneration of elected representatives and the uncertainty that they have caused in the labour market. Two important steps have been taken over the past year to promote economic reform. First, there is an attempt by labour market to implement comparable work in the preparation of collective agreements as in our neighboring countries, with a SALEK convention. While there may be some uncertainty about the future of that agreement, this is a very important step that must be maintained by all means. By the end of the last year, however, the General Assembly adopted public financial laws that were the product of years of work as an improvement in government government. The laws follow a significant improvement in the practices of the European Commission and the Parliament in preparing and dispensing funds. Based on long-term policy thresholds and clear financial rules introduced. These changes put far more emphasis on the context of government funds on the challenges of economic management at one time. The policy is set up to five years at the same time and assumed that each year's budget is in all the basics of current financial policy. The financial bill now is the first thing the Council will take care of under the new law. Its remainder is in line with a five-year national budget, more than 1% of national product. However, the concern is that during the last days of the election, the council did take care of another tens of billions that is not taken into account in this bill. It does not promise a good deal of improved employment by Generalis in the budget. We must ask ourselves, " Have I really learned from the practical management of a few years earlier? ' Clearly, the workforce has already gone off course, with the prospect of prospects in the shadow of a more severe group of pitfalls, but it is important that this conflict resolves successfully and without a threat to stability. The fact, however, makes it even more important to hold on to financial matters. Over 17%, over the years, the expenses of the state's budget increased to the level of real value, a sense of inadequacy in its time. Looking forward to a budget bill now, expenses have increased by more than 17% again since 2013, i.e. ... aslongalongtime. Although the foundation of the economy is much stronger today than it is, this is a dangerous development. So there is a serious risk that we are repeating the serious mistakes that have been made in favour of the country in recent decades. Thus, the financial debate is a test of the Congress's will to change and improve financial practices and ensure that the government's financial resources will not again and again be fueled by the expansion of national farming under circumstances that may be of little greater value to the combustion of those materials. Under the special circumstances now in the council, where budgeting is submitted without the majority of government, the responsibility of all of us will be even greater. Although there are certainly calls for increased expenses for various important projects, such as building timbers as well as health and health issues, we need to exercise caution and realize that everything cannot be done at once. In the long term, there will be room for the important projects with regard to financial priorities. Rather, it includes the high cost of interest that the state's budget still carries after a collapse, and it has a budget of some 80 billion dollars. every year. With progressive subsidies of the state's funds, including with the sale of property funded by government funds, the growth rate may be greatly lightened and the scope needed to carry out important and urgent tasks in the coming years. When economic circumstances are as practical as they can be seen, financial resources have increased more than examples during previous economic growths, and home and business debt are greatly improved, it is only fitting to make good use of the time to introduce new and better practices. In this context, the courageous words of former president of the United States, John F. Kennedyr, have been discussed with regard to the success of economic success in their policy debate on January 11, 1962. It reminded him that it was very important to make good use of economic success for needed improvement in these words, with the permission of a president: ▪ Time for roof repair is while the sun shines. The budget is, in a sense, the roof of the economy. They provide a measure of security for the economy, especially when the weather is eschatological in an economic sense. And this fine roof leaks.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u48	Madam President. I'm going to go over a new budget bill by 2017, but the bill is submitted under a bit of weird circumstances. This is a management board that contributes its budget to a new system that takes into account financial programs until the next five years. That is a very good procedure, but the situation is somewhat strange. This situation requires that the politics that are normally reflected in the budgets of every government, because it cannot be said who is in the greater part and who is in the lesser part. This makes our assignment challenging and clearer, for we need to find ways, the whole body of Congress, to set priorities, to talk to each other about the most important issues, and to resolve to improve in areas where the need is greater. V.E.G. The secretary of finance earlier today said that we need to know some stomach issues about expenses. Yes, we do, but we must set standards first. We who have it are well fed, not those who do not enjoy the same things we do. We need to keep in mind when handling these funds. A respectable president. The big things that are most urgent are things that I think we agree very much on. I suggest we focus on them. All classes spoke of the election as promoting health care, strengthening education, building infrastructure. Did not all also talk about improving the standard of living for those who do not make ends meet, who are sick, or cannot share fully in society under the circumstances that governments offer? I'm going to go over the big lines, the big things in the current budget. With regard to health care, it is clear that there are about 4 billion more to the hospital. Of these, 3 billion are nearly exclusively paid for legal contracts. That leaves 1 billion. What should the hospital do with 1 billion when the hospital staff and officials say it lack 12? This is a real challenge that we face, and if we as politicians are not going to settle this, we need to tell the hospital officials what work to take care of. It's our responsibility. Are people willing to cut down service at Land Hospital? I'm not ready for that. I don't think there's any pet project, but if anyone can argue with it, I'll listen to them. I put my faith in it, and I trust in what the hospital officials say needs to be improved. We need to figure this out. Then it's an interior structure. A communication plan is cut down in this bill, but the transport programme is newly released, and it has been submitted by the groups listed here to provide a financial bill. It's about 15 billion missing, as the situation is today. No doubt some priorities need to be set. I believe that we must be guided by the maintenance and security of road users. There's a little bit more education, that's all. I'll see if that's enough. I don't think so. The colleges get more space they've had for a long time, but I don't feel in this context about the first grade, the nursery, and the transnational income exchange. That is what we need to consider. It's under the well-being of children so everyone can attend this first level of school. This has been done by parents'financial means, and we in the short future have foretold freedom from the first level of school or pay from the taxpayers through our rural communities. In fact, I feel that child rearing is better spent in that way, if that's how you set your priorities. Then it's the improvement of a biographer. Organists remained in charge of the social security system. They get some raise now, if I've read correctly, but not really. We must look forward to not taking care of the points emphasized by the Quantum Community. They actually cut back on the social security talk before New Year's. We need to figure out how to open that conversation again. We've been discussing that this is a concern. I agree with that. We're not supposed to do petting. I have to admit, though, that I don't see them in so many places. But is putting 100 billion people in the Board of Directors, now estimated? Should we not? There are still 35 million who are not in the big context so that NAPA contracts, or the user - controlled personal assistance with disabled persons, will be allowed to continue after a year's convention. Do we not rather want such things to work out so that disabled people who make such contracts do not have to move to institutions and continue living in their homes? That's more important to me. Of course, increasing the entrance must be done. In the bright future, we have no record of raising taxes. Still, we need to watch how money and income are made in Iceland. It's my personal opinion that paying people in this relationship are not the big problem. Those with high wages pay up to 50% of their income. Business funds are successful. They are very low taxes on international standards. If we're going to check out what's going on in Iceland, I think we should look in the direction of equalizing things. We see good progress in various companies, e.g. in large fishing companies. They have been cursed for not paying righteous wages from their income in a common fund. When you see that there's a million dollars that you're paying off, and 5.5 billion that are due in hunting, and that's fair, I think something's wrong. If so, we need to look at it in the background. This financial bill doesn't talk about increasing the entrance. I can't see that means of payment for tourism are checked. Now we're at the point where we need to control the flow into the country. We are involved in a large amount of expenses. Istavia must gradually expand the base. That's a lot to pay the taxpayers. In turn, the currency flow is very much because of the tourists. The tourism industry has completely saved Iceland in difficult times. But don't you think it's okay to keep your tax level simple and more in line with what's going on in the rest of the country? We see in the fiscal bill, and I put two and two together and got out ten, that the Holy Trinity, gasoline, alcohol, and tobacco are rising by 2.5% above inflation. This is the feature that is always raised, but it does not return much earn that way. I ask myself, " Is there some kind of mountain back way of taxing tourists by that, for example? ' to raise the alcohol charge, because alcohol consumption is high in the country; actually, I don't know if the drinking of tourists is greater than the usual Icelanders, I guess not. Is it always the easiest way to turn this up? Of course, it is also a spell, though we may feel that this is a curse that is easy to justify. Why did the sugar tax have to be removed if people are looking at human health and prevention? Indeed, there was a tax that could have been continued altogether. [[Upwards: Ups.]] In terms of public health goals, such as alcohol and tobacco, it should also be true of the sugar tax. We see in the world that fuel prices are rising, and there are more spells on our hands. It's gonna be interesting to find out what numbers the gas cylinder here ends in two, three years. A respectable president. My time is running away from me. Finally, I would like to stress that the 35 million missing from the user - controlled personal assistance that is missing because of the rise of collective agreements in this budget bill. I already have a team that we can replace as part of the Council of Control. I don't know how important that is when you say that. And then I look forward to seeing what it's like. The legal committee will work out these matters, what information it receives from society's institutions, where the need is most urgent, and how we can work together for a good financial bill under these strange circumstances. I believe we have a unique opportunity to win it on equal terms and to show the Icelandic nation that we truly are worthy of trust. We know well how to work on good things.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u49	Madam President. Yeah, it's the politics of this document and the way it shows up. Hv. A senator did well to review some of its features. I'd like to mention one particular thing that she came in on, taxing our income, and how we can improve income farms without necessarily raising taxes. You see, I go around in the bill, pages 114 and 115, the term tax strengths that struck me a little, and it seems that certain taxes that people pay in lower stages, or that they have some access to, due to various circumstances, are interpreted as being a source of government strength, because there could be more to milk the people by putting bread in the top step; there could be more to get out of us by taking some deduction of people. That is why this ruined tax is actually a source of strength. I don't think it's a shocking view of us as citizens in this country. So I'd like to ask the senator if she wouldn't agree with me that perhaps it would be better to look to real tax reforms, to negotiate on the income of the large business that pays too little to the community, let alone the income of people who earn all their income from investments, enjoy either the low capital tax or use the various business combinations to avoid an entire tax system. Which would it not be better to consider this a tax grant than the 68 billion that the Ministry calculates to be giving to the common people a valuable tax service?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for turning my attention to this so - called tax grant. I must admit that I have not read these specific pages. They are a few, in fact, the pages that I have not read in the budget bill yet, not let go of it. As the senator describes the strength of taxes in this context, I simply don't understand the basis, I have to admit it, or the ideologies that are behind it. But I've talked about it many times in this chair, and to us in a bright future, that the real tax strength, which is in all wills, e.g. to the big business, that is, as the senator rightly says, the actual tax grants that the state gives in but the public has to pay. The public pays off the infrastructure, the power posts, the activations, the education systems and what it is called, the industry of its operation, is using like everyone else in this country. So these are real taxes that are supposed to be taken out, I think, and it's to increase corporate equality by reducing taxes to all companies rather than to the companies that come here to use our resources and pay so little for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u51	Madam President. I thank the senator but may be expected to read two sentences from the bill, with the permission of a president: Thus, the largest single factor in the tax system is the food supply and sale of restaurants and rooms at the bottom of the value of the tax tax tax level. Which are like I said before 68 billion of the 84 billion here calculated as a strength. So, on permission of the president, says: ▪ By attaching fingers to tax allowances and evaluating their effects on tax revenues each year, tax strengths can help to achieve the desired criticism and management. I just want to direct it to the Committee to follow this latter sentence, to put fingers on the real tax grants rather than pursue what the public is getting a lot of strength by paying only 11% of food taxes, whether it would be possible to contribute to the real tax paybacks to the big business to get the criticism and treatment that would be desirable, not to mention the strength given to taxes, by the subsidies of which we use to subsidize tax research. The strength has been measured in 80 billion a year, which is the same amount as in the bill is calculated as strength.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u52	A respectable president. I thank you for the information and the definition of the budget bill. In terms of food taxation, I'm just not well enough at it. You hear such a different perspective, and I can understand both views. I hope we're all here trying to balance quality and quality of life. Besides, there are different ways in which people want to do it. Some would like to have a low tax on food, others say, " It's not good to do that sort of thing, should we rather take a personal discount, or what? ' That's a discussion we need to take. Above all, I'd like us senators to be guided by this throughout our entire treatment of all the laws that go through here that we are increasing the equation of the citizens of this country. I admit it, and I think there might be something missing in some cases. Councilmen, that people don't have equal opportunities. It is born into different worlds, and it is our job, to make it feel that as many people grow up and start their lives, they have the same opportunity to become what they want. Of course, we do this primarily by acknowledging that this difference in circumstances exists. There are also different ways to process it. If we don't accept this, we won't be able to make it land or beach.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u53	A respectable president. If I fall out of my speech and I'm messing with my pin, it's because I've thought it was an exciting thing, that pinta that goes up and down. Then I ask the World of Congress to be patient with me. This is where we'll discuss the budget bill as the highest level. Bjarni son of Benediktsson's secretary has submitted - or sitting, and I'm not sure if he's sitting down or standing now because he's not in the Senate listening to us discuss these matters that I'm very sorry for. It would have been nice to take your first step here and be able to have a word with the minister. But it may not be our fault, for we live in such circumstances as some of them. Senators have entered today, this is a financial bill of employment. In fact, the highest yield was given. In his earlier modern history, Bjarni Benediktsson's financial minister gave us the guidance that the matter would then have to be made, really, and continue with the matter. I must express my special pleasure with the highest instructions. The secretary of finance and the feeling that he has come to the very conclusion of the situation that I encourage all of us to be aware that this is never the case -- well, never this over again, this has happened before in history, but it's put up here with a financial bill of employment. Since there is no more part behind it, each member of the body is really working on the financial bill according to his own conscience. I ask senators to bear in mind what they were talking about with their voters in the process of election action. I'm such a simple person to believe that you're supposed to live up to what you say, and if you say to voters in the event of an election that you want to see certain things come true, you should use the first chance you can make it happen. So I'm sharpening all of us here, both of us. Councilmen working on the bill in committees, but also the rest of us who are here in the Hall, and who will not be in committees, to approach this budget as such; from our grounds and from what we believe is right but not from predefined political lines, party lines. There's no more things here and less things that will be able to handle this bill. After declaring my joy with Bjarni highest degreeBenediktsson I'm going to reduce only the joy he must have felt by my pleasure, by declaring that he has failed to fulfill the legal assignment shortly before elections, that he must have found the approved place in financial terms made here in agreement, to find income, and I am sorry that a minister has decided to take care of that assignment. There's a lot of whisks out here. Councilmen talked about a transport plan. There is no point in this long story, but it is simply that the legislation of the European Commission assigned the Commission to find that programme, find that income. It didn't work, and it's our job here at the council to figure out what we think is better off on this budget bill. It's a more difficult political bill than the budget bill, that's really the box we're going to wear around the community next year. Hv. Tenth. Smoke. D., Andrés Ingi Jónsson has mentioned several times today that people's opinions on the bill differ from those of politics. That's exactly what I'm talking about. In our payment on the budget bill, the political bitch we want to represent appeared. It was the politics that we introduced to our voters in the process of elections, and it's for us to stand in love with those voters and stick to what we talked about in the contingency of an election. Therefore, we can talk for a long time about the budget, and we don't allow anyone to talk for long. However, I do not necessarily intend to have my language any unusual distance. I don't think there's a need to review the details of the suggestions presented in the budget. We all have it in front of us, and we see what expenses are there. He himself spoke the highest. Underneath Secretary of Economics Benediktsson Benglatt, earlier about 2.5 billion who would be put in education. It's a good thing to have some extra money there, but I'm saying, when you put the cell in front of him, "Thank you for what I've got, I hope you'll get more." There's no doubt about looking at the point where the situation is in education, and there's quite a number of us in this room accepted in the consequence of an election, there's more to it than expected in this financial bill. High school drivers were united in a declaration that said it would take 2 billion bucks. Right away into education and up to 6 billion dollars. During the election period to achieve the goals we have set for ourselves, aims to achieve donations per university student up to the average OECD this year. This financial bill will not be reached, and it is far from reaching the goal of making donations at each university student reaching an average in the North countries in 2022. It's clear that this will be a very heavy period of time, and the contributions will be in harmony with what the financial bill says. We all say that the education system is important, and many in this country have embraced ideas of achieving these goals, which are the aims of the Scientific and Technical Council. Clearly, words have to be done. You need to put extra money in there. The colleges are another arm. There is also a lack of considerable funds. In fact, I have long considered that the system needs a lot of revision, I have been overcrowded to the education system from money, from the interests of employment, because of someone else's interests but that the students are comfortable at school, that they are well cared for, that they have the time they need to be educated as best chosen, primarily because it's good that they are educated, but not that they are economics in some accounts, although it can certainly be a positive result of that. I know a lot about one high school, the High School in Kopavogi. This was the case when six months'allowance was applied earlier this year to the need for 20 million. K. in the government's budget so that the school could live under rent and pay. Someone would think that there are basics in school management, but it's not inside electricity, heat, or water, let alone some of the money in there regarding school development, student equipment, anything that makes school a good school. This is primarily the result that, of course, when the government had been written with a teacher, the amount of money that I could not understand to pay the government's pay. I think in many parts of our system, we've got these shards that we need to look into. If, on the other hand, the government deals with certain raises in pay, it cannot be denied to extend it. Clearly, then, more money is needed in high school. The basic schools are certainly the work of the local community, but the situation is very serious, as should be clear to all of us here. It should be a joint project, actually, for the whole administration to try to get them to a high level. I think it would be wise to view the welfare community, to view education as part of it, as a unit, and that it should not matter which administrative level is involved in its individual aspects, they should not be affected by those who use it. Although basic schools are responsible for the community, the power of the government cannot be free of charge. We need to look at the income exchange between the state and the community. The state's position is much narrower than the state's. We need to take responsibility for that, for all who are in here, and I encourage the financial committees as well as for the rest of us to do so. I refer these words to the members of the Committee on Funds and the Economic and Business Committee which will also address these matters specifically, but also to all of us. There has been a lot of discussions over the past few days about education status, the status of students, according to international surveys. We see that a school after school needs to rely on a donor's goodwill in order to reach out for needed resources in order to pass over school. It's perfectly obvious that it's not working. Cronzes and pennies, exactly what the amount of increase is in percent, is a project that awaits the members of the committee primarily and also the rest of us. But I encourage members of the panels in particular to call out Drivers and Deans in order to get a picture of them, the real need for money, not the financial resources that appear on the budget or to think that it would be this way to find out what the amount of money is to be there, but to get people out of the school system, from the educational system, from the schools, and from the schools, and from the schools, and others to meet the real need. All of this, of course, was based on earnings, and I missed doing a little in the case of the highest. Secretary of finance, and actually, I don't think there's much trouble. Councilmen have entered this aspect of affairs here, since expenses are linked to income. I have sometimes felt that to some politicians it is a very sensitive matter to talk about how to finance the combination, how to get into the infrastructure that all classes praise for elections, how to prepare for a successful, menial community. Nobody's playing around bringing in some fees and taxes, that's what nobody's doing because he enjoys it. We can look at all the ways in it, but we cannot act as if we are not going to discuss it. As far as I can see, the budget bill is now a drop in income, the deed to pay for about 5 billion. Since then, a successful government has given up enormous sums of money through a number of expenditures that would have been least on top of its best interests. It is sad that we do not really take political discussions about the same thing. But I'm going back to commend the highest. The Secretary of finance for Bjarni Benediktsson. He put us in line to take over the ball now and move it forward. I'd like to think of a budget bill in 2017 as some kind of base of debate, the highest ideas. The secretary of finance for Bjarni son of Benediktsson about how he sees the next year's budget being arranged, and it is for us at the council to put our arms around it and to make further use of that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u54	Madam President. We'll talk to a budget bill. Secretary of finance. As shown in the bill, economic conditions in this country have improved over the past few years. Most economists show evidence of economic progress from economic growth at this time and also show clear evidence of continued economic growth in the coming years, although it will be greatly delayed over the years. As noted earlier, this is the sixth year in which we experience growth in economic growth. He was the most powerful of 2013 and now last year. As we hope to remember, when the late 2010, after a collapse, the economy turned from shrinking to growth, to the second part of the world's economy, to continue in 2011 and then in 2013. As stated in the next year's economic presidents of the budget, the rate of growth will decline substantially over the next few years, according to the economic standards published in November. We will see clear evidence of a critical period of expansion in the process if not already the sea. They're classic, and if we want to see them, we'll face them. We have a detailed real estate market. We see tension in a job market. This year alone, we see the huge import that appears in nearly 100 billion goods of goods and goods, but the extensive service trade of tourism is balanced and tilted. Other signs cause anxiety, such as the fact that the foundation for lower inflation is explained by most of the low oil prices and global prices. Therefore, if it claims to be the same, the strength of the crown will have very serious consequences for Icelandic economy such as the highest. The secretary of finance came before himself. Further warning signs include deterioration in production, with significant reductions in the growth of potential production in the economy and production plant needs to be observed. Disturbance has been observed between total posts and production. Now is the time. Under these delicate circumstances, the responsible government of government, such as the highest power, is tested. The minister of finance made his own point in his speech. A big thing if not the largest economic responsibility given by those who will be in charge in the years ahead is not only to pay off the debt of state funds but also to do all that can be done to make as much money as possible in order to live up to the responsibilities of the state itself. What are they? It is about controlling the needs of all of us into our health, education, welfare, transportation, and environment. I'm sorry, but action has been highest. The secretary of finance and the government he is still on, making it possible for the government to face a loss of income during economic growth, a loss of income that is expected to run even between 50 and 60 billion. It's all the money you need. The secretary of finance is ashamed to go to the expense of large corporations, which have demonstrated constant income evaporation and large profits and also to large - scale employees, who are certainly able to bear a little more load than others. For these financial contributions, there would have been a considerable contribution to the hospital, but financial support is being made at the highest level. Secretary of finance, now we're talking about. It says that despite a persistent request, or rather a distress call, the governor of the Land Hospital, that the National Hospital needs about 5.5 billion to keep the work gone and about 11 billion to add to the service, the government of Independence and the forwarding squad puts a whole of 4 billion and thus greatly reduces the financial contribution made to the Land Hospital; 4 billion who have paid on the part of a financial minister, not money to serve the sick or support of equipment, but benefits and rewards. What does this really mean for the national hospital? This is a direct route to continued surgery at the Land Hospital. It is now obvious that the response of the hospital officials to this decision by the state of Independence and the forwarding party, contrary to the campaign order of the groups to improve the health system, has to be severely reduced to the services of the sick. The degree of service that has been reduced to elderly patients who have been placed at the Land Hospital is likely to occur, since this has not been prepared for, by a health minister or financial minister, to ensure proper service to the sick elderly in other matters than the overcrowded Land Hospital. Elderly patients will be the ones who first experience the cut-off requirement involved in this small contribution in the budgetary bill according to the need. What's a vision of the highest. For example, when it comes to caring for this group of patients, who consider at least 150 today, a financial minister who is not here in the hall? Should this patient group of elderly people just go home? How to ensure adequate service to patients at the National Hospital, adequate medical care for health care professionals who perform twice as much stress as their colleagues do in nearby hospitals? How should necessary equipment be maintained at the hospital? Some may feel like old records, but perhaps I sound more like many of the nearly 87,000 people who were writing under the challenge of restoration of the health system. It is quite clear that the challenge and the appeals heard in society during the recent election season are not answered in this financial bill. That's a lot of concern. I also admit that it is a matter of thought and concern for a signed senator that the priorities of the current health - care system administration are also clearly expressed here when contributions to the health care of the capital area are gathered about 4 million each year, while contributions to a special health care center on the capital are increased by 1.5 billion due to a new framework of nursing homes. Four million in minus 1.5 billion in private health centres here in the capital area. However, it is hardly surprising to remember that the director of the health care of the capital area pointed out that despite raising funds to the health care of the capital area during the past year, the health care of the capital area had to take on major cuts in the wake of the collapse and has failed to correct itself from that requirement and from that time. At the same time, since collapse, the population in the capital area has increased by 17,000. In 2016 the capital area had 9% health care under its budget in 2008 and is now receiving 4 million less than last year. In this way, the priority in rebuilding the capital area is to support private health centres over the others. It's politics, and the budget is the most political document in every government even if it's a professional government. Nor will national health care agencies receive what they would like to receive according to this financial bill. The responsible management of government funds is not merely to show good numbers on poles and take care of them, but it is the responsible management of government funds in the setting of priorities and the management of public and public funds in the country, to be subject to the responsibility of protecting and strengthening the health system, education, schools, as well as to the well - being, which all of us always have access to, and to ensure that the environment is guided by all public decisions, including financial decisions. I'm not going to keep those words longer this time, but I agree with the words here that have fallen for good wishes to the Committee on the Extension Work. I wish them good luck dealing with this financial bill. This is, as has been said before, one of the most political budgets we've ever seen during this terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u55	Madam President. We'll discuss the budget bill for 2017. I'm here to speak first of the transport program in the bill. The internal structure that we were running for the last election, most I think, talked about, and stressed that there was a great and accumulated need in the infrastructure and transport. Sadly, though, the budget does not reflect the wish of all the senators sitting here at the council today that they wanted to see that it was time to spit in their hands about infrastructure, whether we talk about maintenance, new projects, public transport, portwork, telecommunications, and construction of high - speed connections. You'd have to deal with it. It is not enough to take good results and bring up the financial agenda, 1% of GDP in income waste, if at the other end has reached such a huge cumulative need we all know in transport and infrastructure. This is not to be expected because the government fund has this income supply of 28 billion as a national budget, to have 1% of the gross domestic product in income waste. At the end of the last council, I and no doubt many here were greatly disappointed by the work assigned to improve the transport process, a transpolitic work submitted at the end of the last assembly, all of which are thrown to the budget bill. There's nothing left. You're gonna tell me that parapolitic if they knew there was nothing to do with that job? This accumulated need was looked forward to, and it was a careful consideration of where it would be most urgent for maintenance, whether as local routes, bonds, or new projects. There, they set their priorities very well, and they met the common conclusion of all environmental and transport committees in those areas. Which finally went to less than 12 billion. It may well be that today it's called unpublished vill and campaign code, nothing to do with doing and just shoving, it's just a typical campaign plan. It was the highest. So the secretary of finance, when he voted with this suit, responsible for his stand? Should he not have said that this was a financial program and that it would be something that one would need to make in return? I don't know any better than that. Secretary of finance has voted with this proposal. As a result, he is responsible for providing funding for this addition, the changes made by Environment and Transport Committee, at the end of the last Parliament. Now I challenge the body of Congress to show them the responsibility of working on the Committee's budget and in the Senate's payload to finance these suggestions. This is a cumulative need. There's no statement on the road. This is a growing need, and we know that the weightier and the people throughout the country, the local rulers and others, have called for an improved road system, and it has become very dangerous. [[Yeah, I know.]] There's a lot of money getting into this country from tourists who're heading for two million. Isn't there an estimated 1.7 million tourists this year? And it's going to be 20 to 30% increase next year. Much of these tourists take rental cars and drive across the country. On the highways there are 39 monotonous bridges, apart from other places, in the West, and in other places that do not fall under the road. Of course, this is a serious accident for all the tourists, apart from us from the people of the country who live under these conditions. We cannot continue to do what we do, we cannot milk out of the tourism service much, but we cannot provide the corresponding structure. We can't do that. There's got to be some barriers to this. It's already come to that limit. We all know who we are in here. Although we are talking about other classes of issues that are beyond our endurance, I am highlighting this series of issues right now. We're a rich people. We have the full potential to build such a society that we can live here in peace and harmony with our good welfare systems, good infrastructure, and a good attitude toward the least of our brothers, as some say at solemn times. But transportation in the country, it's as if they were making these budgets, if they were just dropped somewhere in the Ministry of finance or wherever this has finally been done. Humans have simply given up on meeting the conclusions that reflect the tremendous cumulative need for many years. I now trust that we will improve these matters. Hv. The members of this room may have received their calls from people and voters today as we are in the northwestern district. In the West, there was tremendous disappointment that the animal tunnel was completely unfashionable in these budgets. There would be 1.5 billion in construction. That's what seven parties have offered. An offer will be opened on January 10th. I think if they don't fix it, the state might be subject to harm. But I trust that men will do that, and I may point it to the highest degree. Ministers of the current management board, and I trust members in general, to improve this process from and legal and finance the whole process of transportation, thus saying that the cost of road maintenance and development cannot be seen more and more, as the road manager pointed out; as we subtract the maintenance of roads and new structures, things will be much more expensive. It is observed that we need to make stable payments on foreign debt, and we get lower interest costs. It's just the exact same thing. If we contribute to the maintenance of roads and new structures that are in great need, we will be saving ourselves in the long run. Except for the safety show in all of this. It's also been said about General. And just far and wide around the country, people look up to the construction and development of new projects, e.g. It's all in the cold. We can't accept this. It has been said in these peculiar circumstances, where there is no functioning government, that the council must accept the authority that it has, of course, and that has always had to agree with the financial laws and responsibility for what has been also agreed on and financed what is needed in the medical system, the educational system, the infrastructure, or what it is. There's always talk about setting priorities. There are also priorities on the income side, just as priorities are needed in the remuneration gate. There, the current advanced government has been taking out incomes in the terms of the season up to 50 to 260 billion and has been changing the system that was in the process of changing the tax system that was once and is equal to making it more useful to highly paid people than underpayers. Such is the reality. The transfers and mismatchs that have taken place in the past few years are a major concern. We need to agree to prevent the growth of wrongs in our country. There's talk of massive expansion and danger in the capital area, I say in the capital area. There is not much expansion in many parts of the country, nor has it been. But when it comes to seeing warning lights in the capital area, who will pay for them? It's the part of the country that never got this thaw. It is often cut off for some projects that are planned at last in the country, as well as for general structure in the national road system, ports, and maintenance of airports. Then it's cut off. Thus, people are so tired of never getting this expansion to enjoy them rather than just sitting under the cut - down knife when they want to contract the sails because of the potential dangers in the economy, which are certainly great. No one's denying it. But this is not because of overheating the economy around the country. We all know what's going on in the country where people are fighting to keep their jobs and to try to improve their living conditions. But in view of this, when the state has given up so much money, you ask: If we hadn't gotten this huge number of tourists into the country with their income, even though the retired government did not trust in any kind of return fees, for example, to make money for infrastructure, the travel service would not have returned 60-170 billion a year through income like the value tax. We would have been able to make much more of that money. On the other hand, we've been watching men let the businesses leak. I ask: If we hadn't gotten this number of tourists, if we hadn't dropped a fuel price, if it hadn't been like this in the last few years on the surface, if it hadn't all come about, where would we have been with a government fund that would have left all these revenues? We wouldn't be in good shape. That would be, I think, the black budget that the Secretary of finance would have submitted here. Unless he would have had the courage to support a natural income to live under our welfare system, but he did not simply rely on some surface swings that are not in his hands, such as reduced fuel prices, that number of tourists, or a good score in the fishing road that we know is always swinging. We've got a lot of work to do, and I'm counting on it. A council to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u56	Madam President. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Secretary of finance for his presentation of the budget bill today and the Senate for the discussion. I could have a famous word from the story: Here I stand and can't help it, but it's impossible because I chose to seek the job of a senator, and I was helped, to contribute to the social relief of many important projects and to promote greenness. As a new senator in front of a half - dozen council halls, and no Minister can I say that I almost fell out of my hands in front of a 600 - page legal body. This is similar to getting into the hands of the Old and New Testament, starting to look up and comparing different articles with a number system. But, anyway, an opinion of the remuneration side of the A-section reveals that in many respects the green values are unsettled in the garden. On two matters, I want to state that it is important that the Generals do everything as well. The legislature must be thought of with great constancy. The first thing about the pressures on the environment, including Because of the growth and planning of tourism. In addition to the contributions to a three - guest room and adapting within the Þingalval National Park, there are only over 500 million. K. ... inthefinishedfinance of travel. In addition, 300 million are added to air services between areas outside the southwest corner and foreign cities, while contributions to research for tourism are reduced. Here, you will need a completely different thought and extensive injection into the wood as well as the access of tourists. There will be new and improved income markets, such as the postmortem charge of more than 300 bucks, handsome attendances, various services, etc. I hope that's what I'm gonna do on some other occasion. The second point focuses on global issues that are climate change. When I wrote through these 600 pages, I think I found this word once. This may be a misunderstanding, but these fine books were not widely available. Many people may feel that there is much more important than to think about thermals when the country's well - being is right or below the limit. But if we look at things, we may eventually lack much money for the well - being of the earth if the temperature of the earth goes far beyond the scope of the Paris meeting. These are not political explanations. They're blue magic. We should say redness, reality. Mr. President. Because of climate change, it is imperative that a long - term plan be financed, and I emphasize the growth, the decrease in emissions of greenhouse gases in Iceland, and the increase in carbon binding. These and a sufficient amount of initials, I miss the budget. The production of new energy sources in transport and main working roads is too low, forestry contributions are also too low, and land quality recovery and ecosystems are for example. There are no scars on amplitude according to contributions. What are they really designed for? I ask. In other words, budgets that should have the long - term goal set, which is beautiful and rightly said to be the highest. The secretary of finance came in, is not part of a targeted plan for the full commitments we have taken. It is easy to say that money cannot be overindulged or that it must not be sold out on a pet project. It's been mentioned here before. You can ask yourself, " Is it a pet project that women can give birth to children in the Western Islands or is it a pet project to make 102 million? ' K. Police Department funding in the South because of the security of both residents and tourists. I don't think it's a pet project. These are important welfare and security projects. To this end, there has to be a change in the law. Climate change is serious, it's not a pet project either. Whether we are changing taxes, a variety of growths in currency, or a change of emphasis on the distribution of funds that we call priorities, or other resources, we should not be an excuse for saving in this area, this climate field, but, contrary to the facts, it should be an incentive to do better. It simply costs enough money from those who can afford money if we are going to take responsibility for millions of tourists who, in fact, put us on the guest barriers that we both have to discuss and mark out; I hope that I have an opportunity to discuss it better later, or deal with dangerous environmental changes that cost us a lot of money, we cannot stop them. I request a change in budget bill 2017 that looks for significant progress in the subjects I've mentioned, not just a little bit of excuse for a lack of money in a community in which money is seen in many places fair, no matter what it is in this fine society of ours. Talk about sunshine and roof repairs like a dog. Víglundsson I just want to mention that when we appreciate the need to repair, we need to be realistic. There's one thing. Another is that we tend to forget, even justify, that the sun shines in sharp contrast with the people of the land. We want the left green to add our budget to 2017, and certainly in cooperation with as many people as possible. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u57	A respectable president. This is the first time we discuss the budget bill after new government laws went into effect. I participated in a job taking care of that bill with the last legal committee. Happily, that was accepted, and there was a broad political solidarity. We searched for prisoners, but mostly in Sweden, but that land has a fine reputation for public financial matters, not just government matters, but public finances over that brain. I was impressed when I read the first memo from the Fund Committee before us, who had visited Sweden to examine these matters. The memo said that there is a political agreement on having discipline, advice, and responsibility in public finances, across all categories. I'll admit that, of course, it was just a memo written by the Committee's staff, but I thought to myself, " I'm going to check this out when we leave, it can't really be that way, knowing the public financial discussion in Iceland for decades. ' We went to the country's headquarters, and I took advantage of the opportunity and asked all the parties, both the ones we met from the media and all the organizations, and we met very many people, and they said it was exactly that way. It would be a total agreement, contrary to all categories, to show responsibility when it came to public finances. This did not mean that everyone agreed, the left men wanted more taxation, the right men wanted simple tax systems and moderate taxation, etc. But it was so that when a politician, no matter what his party, arrived on the scene and praised all the beautiful things that were not represented, he was just the blue one out of it. This came about because they got it together, reached a transboundary stand after they had hit a bank crash, a little ahead of us, that they were going to fix certain things, and therefore to speak these things. I agree with the highest. Minister that much has improved in our discussion, but I still don't think the campaign effort made us feel like we're in the right place, if we want to go to where the law was. I think it would be, or I don't think anything about it, it would be a lot of work if we were to achieve a solidarity on these goals. Of course, I was very happy with the point that came from my highest point. Minister and minister. The chairman of a financial committee felt that I was good and that way. So you're now commending people from other categories, and I thought they were a bit of a problem. Víglundsson It's not often done in this room. I feel that we have an obligation to look at the big picture, as disagree as we can in the various matters and should be and remain in it. Clearly, we need to be careful now. We know the economic failures of earlier years and decades, and I don't think any of us want to repeat them. If we don't succeed, a respectable president, the public will feel it. And the one to be remembered is the one not to be remembered. Those who have it best to endure extreme inflation, there's no problem like that. They can even take everything they have to a foreign land. But those who have all their possessions here, whether in a house or in a house, are wagemen, and those who have least, do not have a choice. That is why I hope that the discussion here and on the committee and what we do take into consideration because we need to be careful. It's not too complicated in itself. This is exactly the same as when it comes to the accounting of the home or the small company or large company. It's obvious we owe, e.g. Still too much. Of course, we can compare ourselves with other European countries and say that we come out of that comparison quite well. Our friends in the European Union, we were at a meeting the other day, where representatives from the Federa List came and introduced the situation to us, and they put it that way, by permission of presidents, so I dropped a little, that the situation in the European Union was that of the new norms. I don't think I have to translate it. Then they identified all the factors and threats that stemmed from the situation that exists today. Our debt is compared to the European Union, and we certainly get very well out of it. But inside those numbers, there are not debts that must be paid, which are pension bonds. The reason OECD does not have them in general, based on the information I have the best information, is because France, which I can see as far as you can see when looking at it, is not what I want them to be in the comparative numbers. You can find reports on this, everybody can, but there's a little deeper in them. I think that everyone, talking about thinking about the quiet years, finds that taking down debt is a top priority. It is true, too, that the money policy needs to be revised in an effort to reduce growth, but many of these are foreign debts that we do not change the interest level. It's like that. One billion dollars at 5.8% interest rates, and we can't change that. A loan was borrowed in a very difficult situation. There are other things in there. But the big thing is, if we don't use this opportunity to pay off debt now, we're going to get into a huge crisis in a year. One thing is certain, it's going to harden a year. You always talk about the travel like it fell out of the sky. But it's no natural law for tourists to be here. Nobody forces tourists to come to Iceland. They came here to most of the country's coverage, and because there was an extremely cheap place for the loss of a dollar. It's all over. It's still a few coverages, but Iceland is a very expensive country. At some point in this hall, we would have discussed what we were allowed to do in order to strengthen the competitive foundations of basic work, which in this case is tourism. But we haven't talked about it today. I miss discussing whether we should try to reduce some fees in order to strengthen the competitiveness of tourism. I call attention to the fact that it's no natural laws for tourists to come here and if they think it's too expensive, they'll go somewhere else. And if they go anywhere else, we don't get the money from them. There's nothing complicated about this, a respectable president. But now we are at the point where what is especially expensive is what tourists use very much, such as alcohol, rental cars, gas bills are high. This is by means of the most expensive event in Europe, and Europe is very expensive. We're in the same place as Norway and Switzerland. I think there's reason to be happy that the equation, e.g. compared to the countries we best compare with, it's very good. One of the items listed in the bill, on account of the official financial law, is, as has been suggested, and some have criticized that we are missing, and quite rightly because we are not in the right place, that in each case, they set their goals as to what they want to do with the case and to determine the outcome. We need a lot to get to a place where we can discuss this from those criteria. Here are still fully incomprehensible political discussions about private business in the health care sector, although all know something, especially those who know something about it, that in Iceland, 1/3 is the private driver. I don't think anybody's crazy enough to clean it up, I hope not. If people get in it, they'll just know what it means. Men shall stand and shut up the Red Cross: they shall shut down all the dental offices of the land, all the experts; and it shall be so many, and all the nursing homes on every side. Is anyone who truly speaks of doing so, or does that seem reasonable, or is he good for those who need the ministry? What we should do would be to go further in determining the cost of our ministry to see how we can get the best of our service to the health - care resources. How vital that we carry out our ministry! The patient must be playing the lead. I'm really going to say, if they reach that conclusion, e.g. to private people, such as the U.S.A., who are doing well: Listen, this may well work, but this is a private business, and we're not going, under any circumstances, negotiating to pay public funds for this service? Is anyone in that place? A respectable president. I hope we try to do this as well as possible in this short time, and I think everyone will, and try to discuss this least from the present warning signals. It is in itself good; it is better to have these warning signs than those that exist in the countries we would like to compare with. On the other hand, if we do not take appropriate measures, this can turn into a completely different position. It is not forbidden when it comes to public business - it is public money, it is taxpayers' money - talking about how best to treat them. It is not forbidden to talk about how to save. It's not our money that's in here. That's the money of the people in the country, and that's how we should approach it. If, under these circumstances, we do not pay off debt now, when will men do so? A respectable president. I hope that at least we can settle these things, although I do not make any comments with them, and I just let myself hope that this will be the way it will be in the future, that we will deal with what we disagree on. I've been dealing with some of you in here for decades, looking forward to the next few decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u58	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. 1st. Smoke. N., Guðlaugur's angel, Þór, the son of Þórðarson, in his speech. He got into a lot of very interesting things. It's fun when men look outside the box, and I hope we'll discuss some of it in the dining room and maybe in the conference hall. From time to time, we have been able to communicate in various areas. I couldn't hear better than that. A senator said that he missed that we were not discussing reducing the costs of tourism to trust the competition, I think I understood it correctly. I'd like to ask him straight out, "What are the costs?" A senator sees that the tourism service is reduced? Does he believe that today's tourism costs are too high? Is he opposed to the increase in income in the contracting service? Will he use himself to do so within the legal committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, especially because I'm sure I haven't been clear enough in this regard. First, it is clear that when it comes to the construction and construction of tourist facilities, there are two important factors; either the tourists pay it or us, the taxpayers. I think the general rule is that the tourists should pay for it. I think that's the best way to spread tourists and the best way to build up. However, we must also remember that once Iceland is an expensive tourist country, the competitiveness can be shaken. I think the general rule is with people who travel, and they show surveys, that if you're happy with their experiences, they're ready to pay for it. On the other hand, if they pay for something they think is unfair and do not get anything in return, if their experiences are not good, they disagree. However, once the prices have become high in general, whether for housing, food, drink, rental cars, fuel costs, etc., they can come down on their journeys to the country. I think we're supposed to be expensive, but I'm not quite sure that Iceland is the most expensive country in the world. First thing. A senator asks for charges in general, I feel that we should discuss the whole thing because tourism is the national basic road, that's obvious. We can talk about insurance, we can talk about fuel costs, alcohol expenditures, and other matters we need to discuss if we take seriously the fact that travel is the basic means by which it truly is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. 1st. Smoke. S. - That's the other thing, I'm not in it - Guðlaugur saw Þór Thordson's son - for the answers he gave me and a better explanation of his words. [[It's in the North.]] Thank you. I agree with him that there is a full need to discuss more about the important road of travel. There are many questions, questions, and growths in these last few years. It is clear that my motive is to take a special discussion there, and even in connection with the budget bill, although, indeed, the situation is a little special now and the time may be limited, I don't know, at least I think it is a reason for it. Hv. paritaprevir Gullful Þórðarson explained in some respects what he meant, but I would like to repeat my question to him: Does he not feel that he is proficient in gaining additional income for the traveling service that would be moved into the Kingdom box and used in the combination? I did not understand from his answer to my question earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u61	Mr. President. Well, maybe it's general first. The reason we have more money, a lot more money, is because of the majority of our tourism, and, of course, more sectors, but the big change is the tremendous growth of tourism in recent years. Of course, it's going to take the combination, like the VAT, etc. Everything's going together. On the other hand, I thought I would. More than that, a senator would suggest that when we have to go to all hands for building wood, how we finance it. When I drive my car, I have to pay for a parking lot, not just in Reykjavík, not just in the capital area, but around the country, but if I were to stop at some tourist place, I don't understand why I wouldn't have to pay for it too. It costs to create a parking lot. Why should some taxpayer pay for it? It's the tourist who takes advantage of it. I travel a lot of things both because of my hobbies and my work and so forth, so I'm also a tourist on top of other things. Wherever you go, e.g. In Europe, as is true in the United States, you pay anywhere where you go to bathroom. In Switzerland, men are pretty precise, I'm asking respect, a respectable president, you pay one dollar for making number one and one for doing number two, I'm not making a recommendation, but it's all gonna cost you, and why shouldn't the tourist pay for it? You drive through France and you pay for it as a tourist. If I don't pay for it as a tourist, the French taxpayers will pay for it. We need to have a real wood structure. Fortunately, and that is fundamental, Icelanders have a positive view of tourists. I think that if you have to raise taxes on the public in the country to start building up, for example, the small service I mentioned, you can turn up in your resistance. But it's only natural that because we want to see tourists, they're more involved, and there's a lot more money, and we enjoy it on the budget today and in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u62	President. I agree with what. A senator for responsible use of public funds is just one of our main roles at the council. It's very important to keep in mind, especially when it's dark. A senator talks about private business. But in most cases we are talking about private business, where public funds are also used for financial support, social security, or otherwise. It's a little interest in me, I don't really want to call it a private business, I think it's another thing. Private business where the public city is with me, I feel that I am more of a contractor or something like it. This may be a term that would be more convenient to have. I think private business is such that people are completely on their own terms and customers pay all the money. Only the development of tourism. Now it's that of the cases we're talking about right now in the budget bill, there's little group of travel, it's only the highest government that's smaller or something like that, even though tourists actually pay a lot of money, like that. A senator mentioned, in a state fund. The problem is, we're not building up the wood because all the revenues in which tourists go to a government fund, not to a rural partner involved in the building. These include the host's fee, mentioned earlier, and we're raising it, and it doesn't belong to rural society, which should be part of the cooperation of infrastructure infrastructure for tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u63	A respectable president. These were good inquiries; I'll try to go through them in two minutes. I find that interesting. paritaprevir Talk about private business. I believe we should have a health system that is available to everyone, even for everyone. This means that humans will use the best ways to nurture those in need of service. That's why people have new business, not just here, but in neighboring countries as well. We're talking about how we want it, like any other country in the North. All health care measures, e.g. In Denmark, for example, personal driving is private. However, it is paid down in public funds, that is, the thought. If people go to the Sala Station in Kópavogi, where there is a private station, they will pay just as much as if they went to the station in Grafarvogi, but one station is a private station as the other one is fired from the state. If you are a tourist, it would be important for everyone to understand what was being said, because you are in the habit of trying to correct certain wrong information that is going on. I don't think it's my goal that there's money on the budget but that we're doing it well. Of course, what's been missing is research, not just in travel but in general, i.e. Details of jobs, such as tourism. We need to make sure they're there. I think the wisest thing is that those who use the service pay for the infrastructure as much as possible, that's the general rule. However, rural communities earn a lot of money from tourism. Reykjavík, with all the hotel buildings, gets huge real estate fees. If Reykjavík were to take advantage of the activities of various rural areas, it is also possible to deal with, for example, the situation. For example, an Airbnb has to pay the right mortgage on what is new in the tenet. I think it's the hardest thing for a small group of rural society to do when it comes to travel. [[The president calls.]] Maybe I can talk about it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u64	President. I appreciate your answer. I think we're just getting closer to the core here. Despite the enormous amount of money we earn in the state's budget and a lot of currency - we have numbers on it, and good plans - there's very little that we can do to build up money. It's mostly the difference I'm talking about, a certain amount comes in, but little goes to the lawsuit. The group of paintings, such as these, pays much more than what it is about. Maybe it's all right. We might want both of them to be there. It's just a question that we haven't had a chance to think about because the tourism has grown so fast in recent years. There have been incomes that we don't really know what to do with and put on all the special projects that we've considered and that we need money in recent years. That's what I think I'm thinking about doing. It may be that the very new financial law is inexplicably missing policy so that we can talk about it in a more complete way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u65	A respectable president. I agree with the basic theme that comes from what happened. Senator. But when we think about the income of the tourism service, some of the things we want to see are the common consumption, such as the merit tax, the income tax, the insurance bill, etc. On the other hand, if we take our expenses, there is something we will do. If we see an increase in the cost of health care, we are not charging for the ministry. Well, almost all tourists are committed, so we just don't have the real cost behind it. I know we don't have real expenses. If a foreign married couple like to be married on a glacier, a whole day will be there, and they will pay 1500 or 2,000 bucks. or whatever. We will adapt to these changes so that we are not carrying the cost that we would need to do nothing. Then you can remember that we are all tourists in our own country. Do the tourists have better transportation, or are they for us? Of course, they're for everyone. I think it's great that we're having this conversation, because we rarely do. The organization of tourism is very diligent to bring this up, to the attention of a good conference for the elections. I think the development of tourism is the beauty of the private sector in its most pure form. You will see inexpensively of small markets, small companies; 801⁄290% of these enterprises are small enterprises, not even medium-sized. These include people who have even been unemployed or in between jobs, who have shown the power to go to all for a ministry that is absolutely wonderful. I would have liked to see that we are doing what we can to promote this and other comparable activities. Iceland is driven by SMEs. That is where the income we use in these funds comes from.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u66	A respectable president. I'm generally going to review the points I wanted to draw attention to the budget bill, the elements involved in education and culture, sports, youth and the media. First, I'd like to adopt cultural and artistic factors. The budget is estimated to increase from 10.6 billion to 11.4 billion, by a total of 7.5%. It is then made up of up to 248.4 billion basic and cultural operations. K. There will be some 207 billion increase in fields and projects that support art and culture. K. But then there is a point that I believe is essential for particular attention during discussions at the council, and I want to direct it. In particular, there is a review of discussions that are involved with authoritarian fees. The bill assumes that the frameworks involved in the Ministry of Education and Culture are up to 234 billion. K. to deal with the costs of authoritarian fees. I consider it important, in view of the discussion that took place when we agreed on a bill that became a law on this currency, to remember that this is not a matter of cultural and educational contributions. So I don't feel that this part or that they don't belong in this place in the budget bill. Why is that? Yes, a dignified president, for this is a privilege of possession for those with authorhood rights. The state has acknowledged that we cannot guarantee the rights of law enforcement, which is why we have paid compensation, damage. Therefore, this contribution is not to be viewed as a contribution for cultural matters but to reform because we cannot guarantee that author rights are respected. This is a matter of ownership. I've pointed out in the discussion that although we'd put down the important and important, cultural, and educational services that someone probably thinks are a good idea, we'd still have to pay that price. This includes the Constitution, a privilege of own possession. That's why it doesn't belong in this place, and I'm going to point it out. The committee to consider this so that this team can be transferred to where it belongs, which is then with the Ministry of finance itself. On this, I wanted to point out, and I think it's very important to do a price. I put in a government memo on this issue. This was discussed at the council, and it was a fine contrast between members of Congress that this was the case. For the media, sports and youth service, I would especially like to mention that this is the place where we made our decision, i.e. to strengthen a great deal of success in country sports. It was a long time ago, contributions to successful sports had come down - they could no longer be justified in their lowness. In recent years, we have been building this fund, but we have been taking a very big step now. This financial bill gives us a tremendous increase in contributions to sports achievement. It's important, not just for sports but for the whole community. It is very important for young people to have good role models and to see that Icelandic athletes are just like sports athletes in other countries. In this way, the message to the youth of the country is that it is not a matter of how many countries come, but of how hard people work, and not just in sports, but in other aspects of national life. That's an important message. In fact, it can be said that they cannot be paid for at any price; they are important. But by adding to this, I think we're coming in the right direction. It is now very important that the next and next session be met with this strategy and continue to increase to this number of lawsuits, to the achievement of the sport work, about 100 million. K. ... ina year, we're standing with the fund for about a year. 400 million. K. this will be the end of the plan. Then we're still, I'd like to mention, a respectable president, not reaching what our cousins in the North countries are doing about this aspect of the matter. We hope, however, that our athletes are on a pair of things that best happen. So I finish my sports, we're strengthening more shows there, for example. such as the travel fund, which is relevant for the budget of the country, to support them, to the activities of ISI, etc. Of course, you can read about it on the bill itself, but I think it matters. Then I want to step aside from high school because his position has been very discussed and the funds we have for the exchange. The high school management environment is about to be transformed over the next few years by the national financial programme that we have agreed on and by the changes we have now seen in our high school system, i.e. That we're going from a four-year system to a three-year system. In view of the fact that the funds saved from this operation are kept inside the high schools and with the funds added to the fiscal budget, the environment will be completely changed. A respectable president. We are called upon to base our policy on a future view, that there is a vision of how we will solve certain problems, such as high school. We do it in an orderly way. I believe that by what we've been doing there, i.e. to increase significantly the pay of the teachers, to go from four years'system to three years, and to use the savings to promote the business and to add money according to a national financial programme, we are completely changing that arrangement. It certainly takes a few years and has taken up the cut that took place here in the school system in its time. Of course, there were reasons, the status of the State Fund did not allow that. But okay. We've been working on it and we're on our way to it. Well, if it goes along, and there's no change, then the high school in Iceland will be fully comparable to the funding available to the high school in the North countries. It is a great pleasure to know that these policies have been developed and that funding has been assured to make it work. This is important. We are already adding to this budget bill and will continue to do so over the years according to a financial program. I especially want to call attention to the decision made to start a new art program in the field of music. It was an old dream for many and had been forming a college after school in the art field, with such ideas in the drawing table for a long time. This has now been carried out. A high school that graduates to a student's school has become a basic study article. By doing so, we are also acknowledging that an art such as the music is equal to other subjects, and it can be the basis for a student's study. Of course, students who study there need to complete their studies in Icelandic, English, and mathematics, as expected in the high school and student law, where the music, the art, is the core of this study. At the same time, much of the problems that have existed regarding the afterlife of music are solved. Like what? The members of Congress know that this problem has been discussed in the past. I believe we have now by keeping in, doing so in this bill, the donations that flow into the equation fund, and using the music school in many parts of the country. That contribution continues, and then the funds we now place in running this school. I hope, therefore, that we no longer have to deal with issues in this regard. There's also a new college thing to do. It's an increase in money. It leaves 38.6 billion dollars. of 40.3 billion, an increase of 4.4%. Part of the increase will be to start a new study with the House of Icelandic students. It is quite unusual in this bill that such a project is being carried out on the staff in this way, to think about it. However, as this project is completed, these funds will remain in the business, thus exploiting them at the later stages of the financial program. In other words, financing to the university level is somewhat rearbound in this regard, i.e. When these projects are completed, they keep their money inside the system. But like a dog. In recent years, members of Congress have been familiar with this discussion, saying that it is still quite far off that we can reach the same location in the North countries in terms of university funding. You can argue about the calculations, about what they mean, but I think everyone agrees that this school is still missing. We have achieved this, and we are achieving this in our high school with the current policies and decisions available at the council. We're going to finish this job with the university. At the same time, we need to make adjustments or discuss the arrangement for university education, how we want to organize our university education. The Ministry of Education has done a great deal of cooperation and consultation with university leaders, rancrapers, and their main advisers on how we should approach that assignment. There are a lot of data that will be useful in the future policy work and it is important that we do well until then. I'd like to mention one thing in particular. I've noticed that in college discussions, people look at their names into the school system and do not look to the resources spent to raise their teacher's salary. I believe that the teacher's pay is extremely important. Hence, when we look at the contributions to the school system, it is not enough just to watch the management budget but also to watch the increases that have taken place in the teacher's salary, e.g. during high school, which is a significant increase. These are all the resources that will be useful for children's education. Better paid teachers are more likely to achieve better results, the good pay of teachers is more likely to attract future competent workers. This is what we know, and this is to be respected when you watch the entire budget or the overall contribution to the seminary. The same is true at university. All of this matters in agreement. So, I'd like to say that looking at this budget bill, it's evidence that we're working at every main level of development. We are coming out of a difficult time that has cost us a lot of work to go through. I'd like to use this opportunity and thank you, from this convention's speakers, our students, our teachers, our college champions, and the school managers, for a great job getting us through this trolley; hopefully, it'll lead to better times ahead of us in the education system. That's very important, Mr. Honorable President. I want to use this opportunity from the platform to mention a matter that has been discussed a lot, and I think it is necessary to explain. It is the so - called 25 - year rule that has been discussed with the high school system. There has been some debate based on misunderstandings. I'm not going to chase it, but I'd like to say one thing in particular. When there are limited funds, it means that, whether you like it better or worse, your priorities need to be set. Our situation was that, when we arrived in 2013 - just over 900 yous. K. on the price of 2016 per student in the high school system, while the principal student had 1.6 million - a set of priorities. We did this by turning 25 - year - old and older into a system that had put a lot of money into the building up of adult education. It is the same way that we do it in Norway and Sweden, so there are cases from countries we would like to compare with. That did not mean that these individuals 25 years of age and older were excluded from access to the system, but we were not paying special fees for it. The decision, in turn, could be made by a local schoolmaster. But this had to be done while raising funds for each student, setting priorities, and making decisions like this. Then, when each student is on the move, they can continue to discuss what they want to do with the policy. I believe, though, that there are strong reasons why we should have a great deal of ambition about adult education, just as humans have in the North countries, making sure that the older ones who for some reason have fallen out of the system will later get a proper education. I am not necessarily convinced that when you are 25 to 35 years old, the best way to get to school with 16 - year - olds is to be in a school system that is 16 in the early 1980's. At least that's not the way our brothers in the North have generally gone. It is to think about how we will proceed in further development of adult education in the country, but we have already created a great deal of Internet connected to the university schools that offer the way for adults to go through that system and into the university system. All of this is for discussion and natural to do so, but the reason for this approach was that we had to establish priorities, had to make sure that there would be more money on each student. It's going on, and I'm very proud that the Generals have decided on the financial agenda to do so. A respectable president. These were key points I would like to mention about the status of education, culture, and sports in this financial bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-07-2.u67	A respectable president. This has been an intense discussion this time in the special circumstances that we live in. It has not been surprising that the discussion has been about the position of government finance, such as where we are in the economic context. How income stocks are developing, what distance is being made. Is that a conservative budget? Are we reaching our goals in financial policy? What are the debts of the state? How are they progressing forward? And that's how you could continue to count. This is an extremely important discussion, and it might be done more by discussing this large context of the budget when it comes to budgeting at the General Assembly. There are, however, unique groups of subjects with hope and self - determination, a natural part of the budget. I'd like to start by reminding you that, as I used to follow the story talk, this time the budget is very, very, very burnt to be submitted by a government. In view of this, we made a very clear procedure for setting up the budget. We felt that it was our primary responsibility to follow the synopsis agreed here in August on the long - term policy barrier and the exchange of the leeway that is present down to the segregation parties. Second, legal decisions were made and third, some decisions based on the government's approval on various matters; many of them may be minor in the scope of the overall context but have had to be taken care of in a number of important matters. This is what I'm saying, in the budget bill, this was not added to political policy decisions beyond what led to the approval of the long-term programme during the summer, which was back together last spring. This means, for example, that when you point out that the payment is not expected, it includes this explanation. The strictness of the bill leaves relatively recent changes in the terms of transport, and I could continue this way. So I also noted that this must be the aspects the budget would especially deal with, to examine these terms, the unique task of a recent Parliamentary decision to implement transport, the tips being made on how to prepare contracts for the Western Environment Centre, etc. Now we have information that we didn't have this summer about what the bidders have offered and how important the roadmaking is. I'd like to briefly introduce another aspect that I have to admit is growing in my mind. When I was on a budget in 2003, the committee was often discussed with me that it wanted more access to a member of the Member State's budget. At that time, the committee had not been given direct access to financial requests. I think it's still this way that the project is not opening up all the management and financial systems because of all the requests that come into the system. Communication with individual institutions was then carried out either by reviews or by visits from the members of the Member State to the Committee. The Committee's work was tested to determine whether additional funds were available and after events responded. In recent years, though growing, I have found that the members of the state are turning, even before they talk to the council, directly to the press. A few months ago, for example, we saw that the university was spending a considerable amount of money with full - page newspaper advertisements to point out that there was a lack of financial resources in line with the expectations of those who go there. Also, we have seen a good deal of success in expounding and disintegrating the financial orders of the individual Member States, e.g. in the health system, in the media. In the past, this conversation took place primarily at the council and the legal committee in connection with the budget. I have to get this over here because I don't think it in all things is a very successful development. All the legal arrangements we're in after the Constitution begin, that no fee can be paid unless legal authority is obtained. Then we set up a budget law here, and after that, funds are given through the Ministry. The law assumes that it is one of the first duties of the members of the Union to stay within the budget established by the General. Today, however, it is not much of a matter for citizens to come and recognize that these institutions are highly lax and that land and nation are ashamed that they will not provide large financial resources. Here, the General has to ask himself, "Who drags the line? What will a person do when members act as if they are not obliged to obey the law from the Council in these matters? To me, that's a big deal. We know where the shoe will squeeze when it comes to the infrastructure and the main social services at the present time. We just got out of a campaign, and we've had a long talk about those things. Clearly on transport, the construction process is still low. It's very important that we find ways to improve the maintenance of the road system. We can be happy that it is now warm outside, and there will be some relief on the road that has often cost billions in recent years. Hopefully, then, there will be more to it than just other maintenance projects and experiences. This is a huge case that we will need to give increased attention, as discussed in the discussion, including the following: 'Cause there's a huge stream of tourists in the country. In education, yes, I read the ads from the headmasters. I noticed that they said they needed money. We here take pride that university levels, such as other levels of education, are completely competitive with what happens best elsewhere. In our long - term schedules, we increase the contribution each student makes, but we can constantly ask ourselves if there is enough to be done. But I don't think it's good to think that the conversation with the Ministry is moving from the council. The procedure is to give counselable attention to the conversation. We are a member of the Parliament, and things are going to follow events, especially with larger institutions, taking place by means of an intermediate conversation between a panel and its members or institutions. We're moving away from that arrangement to talk to the government through the media. I don't think that's a good development. And I find it really incredibly sad that tax money is spent on buying government advertising to promote views that should be directly addressed to the public. I think it muses me to think that the council is not represented by the people in the country, that they have to skate by the council in order to reach the people in the country. To finish this with the education system, we got a good deposit from the highest level. Secretary of education. It is clear that we are making a better year for a year, but the priorities are endless. Then we have the huge task to watch out for health care in the country. I notice that the director of the Land Hospital is deeply involved in the year in terms of the budget. I'd like to give one indication that, among other things, it has to do with this changed arrangement. The accompanying copy assumes that some 1,200 million people are correct. K. is exclusive, perhaps primarily to shorten a waiting list next year. They are not already identified as Land Hospitals because the Ministry will set aside time to review how their funds will be used best. But at least during 2016, the funds went to most of the country's hospital. Then, when discussing contributions to the hospital in these funds, it must be kept in mind that it is a complete factor of over a billion. Otherwise, the hospital has spoken of the need for 12 billion, but it contains a number of types of fragments in a good report that has been distributed by the hospital, which is not necessarily required by the hospital because it has been identified as 12 billion, of which it is absolutely essential to obtain 5 billion, of which it is now in the current year. This has to be done well by the budget board. There is a significant difference between 5 billion and 12 billion. I'm not gonna talk about taking into account your rights. We might then be talking about less than 4 billion, or just about 4 billion, or 12 billion, a big difference. 4 billion is not a large sum in the context of these budgets, nor is 4 billion in the context of total budget living this time. And under no circumstances should there be any reason to make the Icelanders feel as if their health systems are all on their side, that is totally different and unacceptable, when we are defending the right of some 200 billion health issues. Remember, too, that in this budget bill, we are going to increase the contribution to social security by 22 billion next year in excess of what is appropriate this year. 8.5 billion are due to the increase in pay and benefits in line with pay development in the country. That's 8.5 billion. That's right. It's gonna show up in more things. More than 2 billion are listed in the demographic trend leading to more people's rights in the system. More than 100 million are connected to a better driving strength and 11 billion more recent laws from the Council. A total of 22 billion that we've decided on, in this budget bill, to spend on social security beyond what was valid in 2016. That's a historic increase. 22 billion - Well, if we put it in context of what the Landspians say is absolutely necessary, it is true about four times that number. This should be kept in mind when contemplating our priorities. We can't do everything at once. If we decide to put 22 billion into one category, they are not again for the rest of our cases. This is what I would like to have said right here at the end of the discussion that I feel has been perplexing, as it were, of all the time in which we live. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson came into this room and found that the council was in serious trouble to get to know and accept indications and comments, but I feel that everyone will do their best to resolve the matter and I wish the committee were well pleased.
