ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u1	To answer, health minister, education and cultural minister, environment and resource minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u2	A respectable president. The media are the cornerstone of democracy, and the strong and independent media are our best weapons against corruption. Therefore, there is a serious concern that their management environment has been rapidly deteriorating, cut, and tilted by both small networks, private lighting mediums, and on VOLV in recent losses. Therefore, I ask the minister of Education if he is prepared to promote changes in the tax environment and the media support in order to turn the defence into an offensive. There is a serious concern about how technology and international competition have been changing the environment of the Icelandic media. The Advertisement market is shrinking into bitter competition with large international companies such as Google and Facebook, who don't pay taxes here, however, there are heavy tax charges on the servers trying to carry out news and cultural coverage in a language that only 0.3 million people speak. There is also an ever - increasing desire for consumers to pay for content as we really need to maintain more than ever, which is critical, powerful media to provide the upkeep that needs to be provided by corruption in an increasingly complex society and in which we have to deal with such projects as overgrowding financial systems, Tortol scandals, and so forth. Private media have called for VOLV to withdraw from advertising markets. I say, the only solution that agreement can do is create all the media, the state radio, the private lighting mediums, including small Internet media and other media companies, healing old newspapers, better operating conditions, so that all the media still have better conditions. I'm asking the highest. Education minister whether he has allowed himself to be taken into account by this drive of the Icelandic media's troubled position and whether we will see better management conditions and increased support for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and would like to immediately comment on the last question raised, whether some sort of opinion or debate has been made in my Ministry on the state of the press market, then yes. This summer, I called to meet the head of the lights media, where they made clear to me the position they believe to deal with the media and was very consistent with the description. A senator here presented challenges and changes in the media markets in recent years. It is absolutely true that there is a complex situation, including because of the size of the state radio on the advertising market. You cannot overlook the fact that in the North countries there are no national radios at a commercial market and no wonder those who are in charge of the media companies ask how the government intends to employ it, to what will it take to level that position. Now I know that there have been opinions on the exact tax environment of the media, and there are reports on that. But I believe that one of the things we have to do, and should be able to advance a transpolitic stand immediately, is that we now use the next few months to determine exactly this position, to the council, for example, and I may cast it here to the why. A senator, the idea that the council is a work force, a crosspolitic, who has three months of time to submit a clear diagnosis of factors that may arise. A senator made a subject of his speech, i.e. changes in advertising markets, changes in technology, making the situation developing in the way of the above. At the same time, I'd like to say that in my department, special attention is being given to the environment of the optics, such as Translation obligations and other factors necessary to consider in line with the changes in technology that have occurred on this market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u4	A respectable president. I am pleased with the proposal by the Secretary of Education on transverse cooperation to improve the labour conditions of the media in the country, and I was confident that it would be serious on both the Ministry of Education and the Government Secretary of finance, to let the actions speak in this subject. In many ways, we face a situation similar to that of the media before the publication of the book in the country 25 years ago. Then we had to ask ourselves, " Do I want Icelandic editions to produce books powerfully in English, and we decided to cancel the sales tax because the editions simply went under attack? ' I think we need to introduce some measures that may be consistent across the line to improve these management conditions, but they need measures that will not only cover special sources of light but also provide increasing networks, to the old newspapers, and to improve the terms of the Kingdom News.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u5	A respectable president. That's how we agree, me and what. A senator, the need for a parapolitic stand for such action, and at the same time it should be noted that there is not a long time in front of him for action. That's why I'm so happy for this reaction. Senator. I believe it is well within the scope of this council that there will be an arrangement for Congress here and it will be agreed upon as they shall be laid upon the work of such a committee and laid down for the arrival of the classes now held at the General Assembly. I'd like to suggest, sir, a respectable president, that in addition to the Senate decree, there are groups that would then enter new ones at the council after the election might arrive at that job. But I want time to be used now for the next few weeks and months to allow such diagnostic work to exist. I have no doubt in any way that many of the officials of the media claim that the situation has become unbearable for many of them. I totally agree with what. In terms of the fact that it's not enough to just look at part of the media flood, we need to watch the broad market, at all the media, both large and small, both those who are available on paper and are online, because we need the powerful media, and I believe that there is an entirely parapolitic agreement about that view. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u6	President. Yesterday we had a very good discussion on the validation of the Paris Convention. I wanted to see that there were not many in the discussion to get some things from the highest. Environment Minister. First of all, I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to the precise schedule that allows us to validate this contract, whether there is a time plan for something other than simply filling in a ditch, which in itself is a good price, but of course, we need to use it carefully, for I have not yet seen the exact interpretation of where to begin and where to end it. I also wanted to hear the highest attitude. A minister to see if there is any reason to go even further and to concentrate on molding some policy of infallibility or such, so that we can ensure that, for example, this is the case. can grow more vegetables. There's been talk of a certain course in that direction. I remember that it was VG talking about cabbages, not aluminums, a long time ago. At that time, many people laughed at it and thought it was silly. However, growing vegetables by using technology has now become a major development in controlling, e.g. growth in vegetables with light. I wanted to ask you if there's anything about it, e.g. In the Ministry, which could be made accessible and further discussions about future policy, sustainable development and long-term planning on how we're going to validate the Paris Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u7	A respectable president. Thank you for your excellent inquiry. It's nice to be able to recall the discussion that took place yesterday. Environmental issues and such climates are very wide and involve most aspects of human life. This is especially true in our everyday lives and behavior. Therefore, I am very happy that tomorrow we will open a presentation in the Pearl where both Fenur and the EEA, together with a number of free national organisations, work together against waste in all areas. I urge everyone to come there. That is a major part of our understanding of how we conduct ourselves, as individuals. There are a lot of things in there and that this has been done in the Ministry. Together for waste, there is work at the Ministry that has been linked to reduction food waste. We've worked together to prevent waste, to try to reduce plastic waste, and in this regard, we have a relationship to waste. it's been a state-of-the-art party resolution that's come from here on out. Truly, in our program of climate schemes, we plan to cultivate more vegetables, to cultivate more forests. We are very early in it, and we have a lot of land where we can certainly put down both vegetables and forests to bind carbon. On the contrary, we try to fill in ditches, such as whales. A senator took care of it. It's a project that land transplants do, and it doesn't do just one project, there's a few of the land - healing projects about it. We're trying to get the whole environment with us, and we've had a lot of people come to this, like the Presidency, the Bishop's office, and so on. The bishop arranged this. It's normal to do something about these things, including In a barracks where the President was with me in July.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u8	President. It's a pleasure to hear that there's a job beginning, and I hope to see a detailed plan on these matters. It is clear that we cannot overlook the woes of global warming. Every day we see evidence that we are almost missing out on the opportunity to do something. We're in a time crisis, and that's why it's urgent, and I'd like to make the most of it. Ministers and all members of the council, to let climates live in the discussion, since these matters are too little to be discussed, and we need to find mutual solutions. I think it's very important and I'd like to ask the highest. Environment Minister if there is no greater interpolitical work to deal with the problems we face as mankind.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u9	A respectable president. I'm a big fan of this, and I think it's normal for the nations of the world, not just Iceland, to come up to it. This is a common problem in the world, and it is important to counteract it cross - lax, both within the country and on the world. That was exactly what happened in Paris. Then the nations came together and decided that there had to be something to do, but before we had been arguing about what to do. But something happened there at the last minute. We are naturally doing a lot of work, and we also want to create a system here, a innovation in promoting good works. We read the magazines this morning, and what did the magazines say? It said that we had to start ensuring ships' land electricity, which could actually reduce emissions by 4%. That's a big job, and it's gonna cost money, and it's probably gonna cost some of the continuum transfunctioners too. It may take us to engage something in the north, if we go a lot to do it, so that the transport routes won't be too long.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u10	Now that the latter part of the life span of the present government, it is appropriate to give counsellers the opportunity to look back and give us insight into the vision of the vision of the individual issues they have been privileged to perform. At the top. In fact, the office of the Icelandic language has at times been discussed by the minister of education and culture, and the current one has stressed that we support Icelandic language in a digital world. It has been both a conquistador proposal, a proposal for financial payment, and for other reasons. V.E.G. A minister in these conversations with me, and for other reasons, he has always explained the importance of having a good language, when it becomes evident that in some respects it is under attack. It is one of the ingredients of being a community on this island. V.E.G. The minister last spoke about it when we at the government stand made a suggestion to make a significant increase in the budget and the Supreme Court. The minister voted against, to support himself in the trade of these things. I'm asking the highest. Minister, because he's about to start packing up in the Ministry of Education and Culture, how will he understand this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u11	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. I agree with it. A senator said the importance of this matter. In fact, I believe the tongue is one of the pioneers that we have an Icelandic society here. It's an independent nation. As for the situation, it is proper to recall that the government agreed at its meeting to provide special funds for this project, or its origin, as well as financial support. Then an employee was hired to review the situation, what would have been won, what was not done, etc. That employee has completed this crossing and returned to us, we've had a meeting with him, we haven't even gotten the report ourselves, but we've been over the next steps of the case. The proposal that has come out, and I have since produced my ideas on money supplies, is that the next phase of the project that is actually the project, i.e. what technology is needed to use and how it is used to make use of the databases we have and, in fact, what to do about the databases. But first and last, it is the complex technical problem to build, if I can use that expression, the machine that is there, describe it accurately, and what you might expect to do with it, and how best to do it with the technology companies, which we have to do. It is estimated that it works at an average of 50 million. What I've done is that I've suggested that this be done for the money right now, i.e. Go to work this year, and time will be used until New Year's Eve, and likely something until next year, in the assignment. It is of utmost importance because it must exist in order to attack the project, the individual aspects of the construction project, the interaction of the technical element with databases, and other factors. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think this should explain why. A senator where this is exactly what it says.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u12	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and rejoice that this has taken place in a stable manner. Now we are referring to a certain portion of the project, so to speak, 50 million now and immediately under the hat of a budget. Then I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of whether he believes that it is best to believe that the General Assembly will further deliver this project into a longer future - I am even thinking about the future of a coming superpower anniversary or some such milestone - and the General Assembly united in a handsome demonstration that we are going to do a good English language for the long future so that it will continue to be the foundation and importance of the fact that we are a nation of our own.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u13	A respectable president. I think it's good to do the next show, the to-do. Of course, we need to look only at the cost schedule, review it, these were the first words we received. When that description is presented, it is also easier for us to recognize the estimated costs. The number a billion has been mentioned, but I have the impression that this can be more expensive. True, technology change and development in the world may thus become less expensive, but it is very difficult to determine the exact cost. But I think it will do just fine. A senator proposes that when this work is started and on the basis of it, the Allied Council is in the position of agreeing, for example. with a concierge how to proceed. But I strongly suggest that not only will the General or State do the work but they will be working together with their professional life because they have shown great interest in it. [[The president calls.]] It is understood that the importance of this project will be solved, and the job life wants to do it through funds and, of course, cooperation with the technology component, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u14	A respectable president. A U.S. Marshal's Committee. A health secretary to shape a policy to reduce the harmful effects of drugs has produced a report and has reached the highest level. The Minister's committed it to the council for further implementation. The chairman of the Commission, the Borgar of Þór Einarsson, told the results of the report that there is a significant change in drug metabolism and that it has the highest influence. Minister taken in the same line. A key suggestion is not to put drugs in prison but rather to fines for what has been done, as it has been done. Of course, it is important to note that it has not been a matter of throwing people in prisons solely for carrying doses of consumption, that knows the staff, and of course it knows the highest. Minister. However, the report suggests that laws will be changed so as to fit in with how they have been carried out so far. So there is no change in viewpoint unless there is a greater emphasis on guilt. But a good point is not to fine people like me who choose alcohol as their own drug, just the others who choose different drugs and carry them. Then there is much of the problem, but it forgets to explain how the guilt of drug abuse is subject to the idea of damage and the idea of helping to escape addiction. So I direct the Minister to inform us here how these two things go together in his mind. What kind of guilt do you get from addiction? Of course, I'm not secretive, and I know that these two things don't go together, you don't punish better behavior, that tells us all a law in psychology and behavior. [[The president calls.]] Second, it does not help perimeter groups, such as drug addicts, to get in their pockets and take away their money. [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to hear how a minister envisions this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the inquiry but reiterates what I have previously said publicly that I have waited for the report to be discussed in the council. These are the results of a group of members appointed on the basis of a synonym where I was assigned to initiate this work. I received this in this fall, and it was announced that the report was made when she was admitted to the council. So I wait for a discussion at the council on the suggestions presented there, which are 12 if I recall correctly, before any position is taken. I'm doing my job, and I'll be happy to discuss it with you. A member of the council as well as others here at the time of that discussion. I hope that this discussion can be carried out as soon as possible, because we have waited a relatively long time for the work that is brought together in the report. That's right. That's right. That's right. A senator that some of this report is not exactly new to any other than to confirm, as in this case, a specific legal arrangement, which requires adjustment of the law. However, I would like to mention other factors that are very good in my opinion, which are the tip of the injury. I also find very good matters that involve changes in blood drug measurements, etc. Also, minor offenses, etc. There's something good about this. True, some of these questions will be disputed, but to answer the question as a matter of course. A senator suggests that it is no solution to try to fine people from addictions. [[The president calls.]] I don't think there's anyone, either in the staff or in the room who thinks there's a solution to addiction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u16	A respectable president. I was happy there at the bottom. Minister to finally find the answer to the question I brought out here. At the beginning of his talk, the minister said that he would wait to say something about the report there until the discussion began. But it's good to hear that a minister doesn't think it's a magic solution to fine people out of addiction, for that certainly isn't. Nevertheless, this is the main point proposed by this group. But this was the subject of the staff. That is noteworthy, and I want to hear what is at its height. A minister has to say, that the head of the state police in the staff wasn't able to agree with the proposals of the staff and didn't vote for them. Some, including me, feel that these suggestions are very effective. What's the bottom line? Minister that a representative of the head of the state police is unable to support these reforms? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u17	A respectable president. It's nothing special unless we have one suggestion of the 12. I think the Marshal supports most of the other suggestions or at least his representative in the group. What I find most valuable in these material, which attracts the approval of the General Assembly, is that there is a declaration of a change in emphasis on the treatment and implementation of practices that fall under the drug law. It is long time for me to change our ways, change our attitude, start working more with these matters as health care rather than with crime, i.e. What turns to addicts. That's where the biggest change of attitude is. We know all the hot cables on the drug - free Iceland in the year 2000, and since that time, in the year 2000, there has been no change in focus or attitude. This is in progress, the report and the work. [[The president calls.]] The agreement at a council reveals that there is a change of mind in these matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm glad you're here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u18	Mr. President. I want to direct my words to the highest. Education Minister for the bill now available to the council, the LIN bill, on the Icelandic loan Fund. I think it is a serious offense to be equal to study on the part of the government if the bill becomes reality and it prevents people of all ages from enjoying their abilities and education regardless of their economic status and habitat. The bill assumes that each person will be given strength away from whether or not they need it. We know that people of the region who have to be rented in the capital area will be exposed to the high expenses involved. In addition, growth is tripled. The link is closed. They're gaining a load of payment on the low income, e.g. women have more than no less pay after school. Those who have suffered hardships and have not been able to repay and have had to cancel them have no chance of borrowing in the future. Study aid is limited to 50 years of age. We know that the workforce is such that people who lose their jobs at mid - life are finding it very difficult to get their jobs back, and they are trying to control their chances of borrowing to get more access to a job market. That's the way you keep counting. I'd like to ask a minister if he's really not worried about it, if this becomes reality, that the loan guarantees that this equality for study and social equations will be guaranteed. I'd like to ask a minister if he wasn't concerned about the groups I mentioned, the people of income, women, people from abroad. These groups are faced with inconsistencies because there is a great difference between them and those living in the capital area and from income to income. I would also like to ask if any analysis has taken place before the bill was presented with regard to these groups, women, harvesters, people from abroad, and students from abroad, e.g.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. I've watched many comments on this subject. I have felt that there are a number of sources missing from a number of sources of detailed analysis on the effects of the bill and, in particular, the interaction of the bill and this system with the other assistance that the government provides to the students. I've noticed that, for example. in discussions about rent, rent costs. I have seen criticism of that point, but it has not been followed by calculations that have been viewed as unique examples and the positions of students set up and calculated the outcome. The facts of the matter are: 85% of students who are now taking student loans will get a lower load of payoffs. A lot more students at our biggest university, the University of Iceland, and for example. At the University of Akureyri, there are women. The low pay load or low pay load will be useful to that group. Hv. One senator mentioned that she felt that it was unfair for everyone to have the same strength. Then I'd like to ask. A senator, a respectable president, one question. In the bill that the current chairman of the left green was presented for the loan fund, equal concentrations were expected to be made to everyone, where the strength was calculated as a proportion of college advance and then distributed in an equal fashion. In other words, exactly the same thought. Was a what? A senator agrees with this methodology, but does that mean that it is given the same strength as it is done in this bill? That's what counts. A senator will answer that question because I believe that this is a very important matter that should be placed above a group of political tugs. [[The president calls.]] I know why. A senator knows the bill submitted during the last term in which a funding system was expected, and that system went out on exactly the same thought; that its strength was equal, regardless of family size, regardless of family circumstances, independent of income. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm calling for what? A senator will explain.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u20	Mr. President. V.E.G. Well, the Minister of Education is clearly in the best of defense and of asking questions about the former Ministry of Education and his bill. It would be better if there was a bill and we were hoping for a relief when a new education minister arrives in his next term and puts out a proper bill that will benefit the people who need to borrow, but it is not to be embalmed by those who live in a home house in the capital area, who need no allowance, and thus spend the money, instead of making use of those who need it. We are to show pride in this society that there is just as a place to study from sex, age, income, and situation. This bill is flexing that path, and again it is taking under the wealthier ones and preventing people who are on the edge and who have less access to study, to study. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's very dangerous. The independence party's representatives in the requisitions have promoted equality for study. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They should check on this bill of education.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u21	A respectable president. That's why I asked why. A senator. The bill under consideration during the last term says, a respected president, in a paper: [[Up front.]] ▪ The height of the concentration to which it was then added -- ◯er was guided by a certain percentage of the fund's basic progress at any given time, or by 25%. Hence, it is not the loan that each student borrows. It is the same amount for everyone. Same magnitude for everyone. During the last term, left greens contributed to a system that would be recorded so that it would be the same strength for all. [[Up front.]] What I, a respectable president, have done is suggest exactly the same thing as they say: It's unfair to ask about it, it's unfair to ask about it. A senator after his opinion of the very nature of the matter. A senator had a very heavy reputation. [[Up front.]] How could that be? When that bill was presented with the exact same thought, did a senator not tore up those views, the same amount of strength to all regardless of family circumstances? How can that be, noble President? What I'm saying is this: There is a possibility that this bill will ease student loans by 85% of those taking student loans. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] A respectable president. There are those who need it, and I point to what has been forgotten so often during the discussion, and it is important to watch the student loan system in connection with other Kingdom assistance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u22	A respectable president. I'm very happy that we're the best. Ministers have managed to arrange this discussion. I find the size of a big, important group of subjects, far too small to discuss at the General Assembly. I also feel that the regional policy at one time is very little at all during the discussion, and in general, I don't think people know a lot about strategy. The last one was adopted at this council, which is, in fact, far too short for such an important program. Most of the things mentioned in this program and already approved have been implemented. Maybe everything was going to happen next year. The question that I find very urgent is, How do we make sure that other farms are in the capital area, but here in the capital area, they are at the head of the demand? What Is Needed? I think that we as a nation most of us are more and less inclined to agree that we want to be built on the land. We want a strong country, and of course we want a strong capital. You wonder, though, " Is it really possible that things will just develop somehow, without anyone having their fingers in it? ' We often hear the view that everything that is reasonably important is located where most of the people live. This is the dominant attitude, but it actually maintains the trend that most reach south. Who would not want to live where the service is best, the work is the most varied, the best access to education, the variety of culture? Without precisely calculating it, I can imagine that only the funds we have placed in the Harp since its construction are more than all the financial resources that have been placed in the country since ancient times. I'd like to sit down and figure it out. When it comes to civilization, I feel that the country will be left out in particular. I'm not saying that I regret money placed in cultural affairs in the capital area, but one of the reasons why people want to live somewhere is not only basic services but also culture. This is what I think is important to me. We know, in effect, that if nothing is done, riches accumulate in few hands, so we have a tax system that aims to change this. In fact, the same is true when people disappear from the inhabited earth they feel and experience that somehow they have been left behind. We see that the European Union and neighboring countries have to take decisive measures to influence the development of the environment. I think it's the right way. We can't let these things just happen on our own. It's not working. In Iceland too, we have made conscious decisions. Some aim to make the capital area stronger. Then I can mention, as I heard in lectures I enjoyed, it can go back to 1750, and I can mention the entrance Skúli a fógeti that the king's Danish king was very strong, because at that time there was a cold area, broken down, and that is why there was a lot of work to be done. Sometimes you need to do it. Of course, there have been coincidences and jobs in the country, but perhaps a little monotonous or perhaps in terms of industry, which has not always been good. If we are going to strengthen the settlement outside the capital area, we need to take on, in my opinion, much more targeted measures, since we have actually taken decisive action. We have not clearly defined what our goals are, why this operation is performed, and not someone else. These actions are not necessarily part of a plan, but they function randomly and are often random. And so it really does, we can say, that they will be passed over. In my opinion, we should have a 10 - to 20 - year plan on community issues, as we can see in the northern countries. I think it's very important that there is such an interpolitic partnership, and I think that the classes agree to a large extent. It is something that can go contrary to categories. Once we have a plan and have decided that we are going to have these operations, it is much more likely that it will succeed, and they will not cause a wolf's spray, as I would allow myself to mention the transport of a Fish Lab. [[The president calls.]] I agree with that operation, but the way it was performed was completely out of the map. [[The president calls.]] It would have been better if we had seen that we were going to move that institution at some point out to the country, and we're going to do it this way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd love to hear what's at the top. A minister has this to say, and he has another subject in his second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit is deeply involved in bringing up this important group, the community. I have always had a very deep conviction and a clear view of how the settlements are supposed to be. The main reason we're supposed to run here powerful, creative regional policy is that it's Iceland and Icelandic society needed that the whole country is inhabited. It is simply economically practical, not only for the region but also for the capital area, that it is a dynamic and valuable society around the country. It is important to me that we say things in a clear way. Based policy is not to be lost by any of the government's alms to the inhabited earth. Rather, based policy is on the contrary to the opportunity and means for an Icelandic community to increase the wealth and progress. I'm going to briefly review the three tools that have been under development in order to put on based policy and follow it along, thus attempting to ensure residence in many areas, such as winter. A senator rightly mentioned here. First of all, it's the Board of Directors on Social Affairs. For about one year, there has been an active board of directors of the Council on community affairs appointed to representatives of all councils and representatives from the European Union. The audience is from the local part of a rural society and a graffiti. The Control team works out the definition that based on the definition of cohesion is all the subjects that affect the quality of life and the competitiveness of a part of the country, such as residence, employment, and innovation, and the aim is to get the entire Ministry to act as a unit of community. It is important to coordinate advice policies directly or indirectly. I'm going, as everyone knows, with the water supply and agricultural sector issues, but as we all know, policy and planning in other programmes can have a major impact on development based. Hence, the steering team is very important to keep track of one course being carried out. The Control team also provides an annual report for the Minister on the implementation of parish plans and is a government for consultation in regional matters. In May. The government decided to hide the head of the group to shape clear policy measures on markets and practices, such as the preparation of financial policies and financial agendas in the field of individual recruitments and other public policies. We have stressed that if a planned action is considered to be out of harmony with government policy, the representatives of the board will inform the rulers of the Council. Second, there are national parish programmes. It is based on local cooperation between government, board of directors, national and rural communities. The application programme shall recommend regional focus on the main objectives of based planning, planning, cultural policies and the events of other public policies. Last year, a new protocol was adopted for the implementation of protocols and protocols in the law of No. 69/2015, and the importance of legalizing the locals as much as possible. Thus, rural communities themselves gained greater custody over settlements. Local governments have a better knowledge of the local circumstances and attitudes and are in a better position to enable the local people to participate than the governments we consider to be central. This is very important to me, so I generally agree that the local people have more to say how their territory is covered with money. I underline that participation in policy activities, planning and project management is fundamental to achieving better results in rural areas. Third, it is a policy based strategy for 2017/223. Council proposals for the resolution of a new strategy for 2017/223 will be submitted to the next council. According to the aforementioned law, No. 69/2015, a new work done at the development of a urban strategy has been established, but the main indicators of the project are increasing consultations with the Ministry, Company and local community groups and then the general public has been able to send in proposals on the homepage of the Office. The current strategy for working to date seven years instead of four years of age. That is the years of 2017/223 below. That work has progressed well, and it is assumed that the Office of Building A Ministers will draw up a new plan to seven years very soon. The exact details are not available at this point at which the emphasis will be complete, consultation with jobs and schools, rural and national organisations, as well as advice and other bodies are not finished. But very soon after I took up a new office as a local minister, I gave a graffiti agency to implement the tax system for regional purposes, as it has done well in our neighboring countries, and is my main entry into a new community plan. The ways you will be looking at include reduces the cost of insurance from the capital area, reduces the costs of those who travel long distances to work, and cancels student loans in poorly educated areas. I hope that these suggestions will be fulfilled and that they will prevail. These are suggestions that are known elsewhere. Finally, I think it is very important that we all agree to speed up the development of various infrastructures, such as communication, transportation and electronic security, and to ensure access to public health and education services. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u24	A respectable president. However, there is no real structure at work in Iceland today. Building policy is just a word on paper. Yet, there is now a song in the quality of much of the right and equality of the urban population with good transport and high network connections so that rural, employment, habitat and services can be combined. But it is far from the fact that these main structures are everywhere in the right way. On the contrary, they are a major inhibitory factor in urban development in many countries. As we know, e.g. The road system under many of the damages and long distance from the Internet connections that should be acceptable to them. Of course, it is not acceptable in the second decade of the 21st century and is contrary to the official policy of integrating services, uniting institutions, employment areas, and rural areas. It will be increasingly urgent for rural society to receive e.g. Enjoying a growing stream of tourism so that they can successfully cope with urgent tasks, but they still have no impact on such policies. Of course, we know that the sound availability of home - to - house service is very important to education and culture, but unfortunately it is not in an acceptable way. The last action by the government, to use funds to prevent the passage of 25 years and older into high school, is one example, not showing a strong understanding of the importance of education to balance the situation and improve the standard of living in the country. Now, it would be a song to attract people to the settlements of the land with green payments, an embezzlemented tax appeals - why should they be useful only to big companies? [[The president calls.]] - but none of this is being done because there is no regional policy with Iceland's people today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u25	V.E.G. President. I was glad to hear what was going on. Marine and agricultural ministers developing a future policy, to seven years of age, of the National Park Policy Organization. I'm sorry to have to agree with what's happened. &lt; 0.001a &lt; 0.001a &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.001 When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir The bramble of Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir and his whisk. paritaprevir Ólína the Þorvarðardóttir daughter, however, that the country is not a place of geographic policy. This is vital if we are to stay in the country up to a fixed course in follow - up time. When I look at those who live even. East on the land, on the northeast corner, and on the Westland, there are a lot of things and things to be done better. The road system is even. In a way in the northeast corner, the roads are clean and cleared, and people damage their cars by trying to pass through them. What is central to regional policy is developing a policy in employment, transportation, communication, education, service, and recreation. All of this makes one land a inhabited area. It is not enough to have a capital city where everything is present because as the settlement moves closer and closer to its core, it becomes weaker. It's important that we have all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u26	Mr. President. It is important for all of us, both in Reykjavík and in the country, to have the country built. That we cherish the scattered settlements as well as that we cherish our capital and remember that we are one people in one country. At times, I feel that this discussion is isolated from those from the country. Of course, this should be a matter of interest to all of us, discussing how we can best manage to preserve our country and ensure all, regardless of our estate, good and adequate living conditions. I think that's right, and I can agree with them why. Of course, when it comes to regional policies to secure infrastructure, whether in the form of transportation, communication, or education, it is an important part of the State. These are matters that people all over the country, as well as that of the capital. But I think we also have to realize that the trend here on land, although many people think it's a little exaggerated, is not just Iceland's. Around the world, young people are especially moving from scattered areas to urban areas. We need to take into consideration this matter. People are picking up certain items that are not just about jobs or infrastructure but that are picking up something else. That's what you hear in so many places. People want to choose to live out certain advantages that make places attractive. I think it's very important for the government that makes regional policy, and I agree with the highest. Minister, to listen for the voices across the country. I specifically mention the parish plans and national meetings that were held in all parts of the country. To control where they themselves want to go, we must use the power of the settlements. It was noteworthy at their meetings that, for example, there were people there. Education and culture usually come to the top. That's what matters when you live somewhere. Not only is it the workplace, that the road works, but this also is the very essence of life. I think it's very important if we're going to build here based policy for the future, considering that people in the same time are moving. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't live in the same place all its life. That's a long time ago. [[The president calls.]] That is why it is so important that we listen to people's voices and minds and actions toward the very essence of life that is so important.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u27	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit for bringing up this tremendous interest and important matter. As is the case today, certain settlements are simply about to lie desolate, especially if we look to the West. There are settlements that are about to disappear. There's a tremendous decrease in the number of people there. It has been a long time for people to move from there to a place where there is a service, where there are roads, where education can be obtained. That is why I found it particularly interesting to hear from the highest level. Minister how he intends to cooperate directly and indirectly, how policies in other schemes can have a tremendous impact on a country - based position, especially on education. It is now a song that has been called for, among other things, from the European community that exists in the country, that the Norwegian way will be done in the student loan system. This has proved to be good there, and it appears to be necessary. These kids, students, often leave home early, 16 years old, 20 years old, and have to move around. When you've been away from your hometown for ten years, why should you come back? What's there that pulls you back? If the family has even moved? Somehow we have to deal with the reality that there's something to go away with, something at home. When all are gone, when there is no one present, no entertainment, e.g. There is no bar or theater or art, there is not much to turn to.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u28	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion, it's important. Building policy has so far, not just with this government, but with governments before, in all the old categories, is about three things. It has been a matter of fishing, agricultural, agricultural, and agricultural policies, and heavy industry. I feel that it is important that we consider these factors and accept just how we have failed with the emphasis of maintaining our country. With these three emphasises, we have failed to achieve the desired results. To achieve goals for regional policy, we need to think about these things over again. That is why I find it very noteworthy when I am at the highest level. A minister here speaks of locals, national parish plans, and other matters where I agree with him and agree with him, but it is noteworthy to consider what his government has done in these matters. She's hit the national parish plans because of the table. [[Up front.]] She's reduced it by a lot. This, of course, knows people all over the country, knows the local government all over the country, and it's been very critical. We need to rethink the facts. They don't have any chance of giving pleasure to a great deal of pleasure, hoping that they'll be living around the country, hoping that eaters will just stick to that kind of thing in various villages. [[The president calls.]] It's not going well enough, and we need to rethink basics.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u29	V.E.G. President. It's a graffiti that affects everyone. Hence, the important step was taken when we left the matter strictly on the government and rural communities, including the capital, to become active participants. It is important to view the whole country as a whole and all communities as a vital link in a powerful society. The government has taken very firm steps during this terms in order to equalize residence conditions. These include measures to balance house - to - house electricity costs, and now Iceland's effort is full of light - related forces. V.E.G. President. Already a third of the missing fiber - optic cables is to be granted over the next few months and the complete project is due to be completed in 2020. When these matters are well understood, we can actually talk about employment options without location. The next step is to put effort into better connections with the electrical transport system. This, along with transportation, is, in fact, a basis for the rest of the country and to be a major government project for the future. V.E.G. President. Now there is a new bill on the Icelandic Board of Studyers to be discussed at the council, and it is important to consider the opportunities that are involved in the system change. Bringing up impulse systems through the tax system for reimbursement loans. For example, university students might be motivated to settle down in so - called sick areas of the country. Would it not also be normal for students at a university high school to have an equal strength? Wouldn't that be a normal continuation of high school shortening? Unity needs to be ongoing. They need to become involved in all government work. Hence, it is happy that the work programme is now working according to a work ethic that has been under way for several years and has been legalized in 2015. We now have a total law on policy-making and application programmes. Building policy is a matter of opportunity for Icelandic society to increase its value and support progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u30	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this important discussion. Stronger settlements all over the country mean stronger Iceland. Hence, it is important that when it comes to civilisation, we end everything because we now need clear vision and serious surgery, major serious surgery. When I talk about major serious operations, I'm not least dealing with transportation because in the past of this government, they've been out of control. In historical context, transport contributions have never been as low as today. At the same time, we watch growing tourism. We have one agency that says that we need to spread more tourists around the country, and we have another service that draws our feet from building up the interconnector system so that we can live up to these goals. I can take an example of Kappus Road, which is a ideal opportunity to strengthen a certain area of tourism and to reach the overall goals for the country all that is spreading better to tourists, but people always draw their feet. Transport is a large part of our regional policy that, in my opinion, it is completely unacceptable that there has not been one transport program here at this council. And they're still pulling the government parties. We invited them to take out a transport program in June, which was refused. Here was a vote against it. Here's the score, here's the work. This is what men are doing. Then they say all kinds of beautiful things, but they do nothing. Transport is the key to enjoying all the things discussed here, enjoying culture, having a larger recording area, so to speak, for their lives, and enjoying the pleasures of life that the regions have to offer, as well as for making this career opportunity. [[The president calls.]] We can see that, for example. And in the seaship, and in Ólafsundur, the injections of The Lord's Vain have been there. These are the actions we have to take to look into, but that government is totally drawing near.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. For taking up this important discussion, I can also say that I was delighted to the highest emphasis. The minister of the law put in his mind. I would especially like to point to the factors that he mentioned as to the Council Controller's Management Board on integration between recruitment and how various policy measures in many seminaries must be intertwined in order to build a powerful rural policy. That is exactly the point of the matter. The minister of the law spoke of this, that our dwelling course may be revealed in all the multitude of languages. Therefore, it is important that we keep out of it and use the instruments of control that the Parliament and the government will have at any given time. I'm here to specify things like a national budget and a new State budget. That law specifically discussed how we should present financial laws at any given time on the basis of local issues. There are many things that are done in regional settlements in Iceland, and let's not talk about the country in such a way that there's a tragic recession and a lot of warmness. Although there are individual tasks to attack and work, it is simply a matter of how our policy is displayed, e.g. in which we now raise medical funds, finance to the university system, etc. You wonder, " What controls and standards can we use there? ' So I've entertained the idea when we talk about the university seminary, so I specifically mention it as an example, if it shouldn't be a certain percentage of the funds that go out into the country. Similarly, there is health care and such things, since there can be no success if we call health - care issues in this context, that we do not improve access to health care and provide health care in the region at the same time as we add it to the southwest corner. [[The president calls.]] I can give you many examples in this regard. But it's a great discussion, and I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u32	Mr. President. It's always good to take up a discussion about community affairs, but I have to admit, where I live in the country and have participated in this discussion very often, that you are getting a little tired when you continue to refer to policy makers and reports. We have hundreds of kilos of reports and policies that could be used for miles, so that's not what we need. We need money and real action. It sucks that there's always a fight for every cent and a hold on to what's in the country. This government should look at itself in this respect, transport funding has been reduced and has been cut down to the little universities, education has been made in the country, 25 years of age and older, not to be able to attend a high school that should be left in the country. The health system has been impaired, and attending health care at the capital area involves a high cost to the urban population. Postal service has gathered, the government bank has locked up branches throughout the country, and so on. Let's just look at things as they are happening in front of our eyes, but not always talking about some way out and south and saying it's all coming. They need action, and they need a real government that's going to work with people and businesses in the country, but don't view them as handouts and throw some chicken feed on people when men are convenient. It's not like that. The opportunity is open, and we need to work with people who work well at innovation, education, and have great ideas both in agriculture and in the fishing field. That's how you need to think, but not just work to synchronize this with the other, but it's all happening if you look at what their predecessors have done over the years. [[The president calls.]] Let's also look at the fact that there's a lot of art and culture in the country. There is no lack, but there is a lack of equality in the country with the entire capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u33	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this great discussion. In fact, I find it quite remarkable that the Watermier airport has not been present, I think it's a step in the right direction. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'd like to remind you that I spent a considerable amount of powder on the previous talk highlighting the importance of our having some long - term vision and some plan. Here was a reference to a national application program, and it was exactly good action that the government actually threw out of the table. 400 million were added to the budget in 2013, but in 2014 a government budget bill was put on 15 million, perhaps because someone else had the idea. That's what I'm criticizing because we're more and less agreeing with in this category. At least then, let us be content with it and work together. I hope that the current job is at the highest level. A minister will be taken parapolitic and at peace and value longer than expected. I'd like to see a plan to 10, 15. There's so many things I would've wanted to talk to you about. I think it's part of the media that matters. How's the news about the country? You can hear about the shopping weekend: Icelanders flock to shore. Or about our good summer that was, what, in the afternoon, when a man repeatedly read: "The people of the land are tired of the weather. " It is only natural that news is being carried out in the country as well, and it is not that when reporters come to the country, they would have come ashore to visit. I don't know if you understand what I mean. But in many parts of the North countries, a large proportion of the members of the state media are located in the country and they work their news from there, not just to say, "Now this was a festival in this community, but the news is just the other side. " I think it matters. The distribution of public witnessing is very important to me. I would like to remind you and point out what the EEA is doing which should only be north. How people there can work at the branch where they choose to work is tremendously cool. [[The president calls.]] If the biologist, an expert, lives in Egls, he is only working at the branch office at Egls. [[The president calls.]] We're gonna need a lot more time on this, Mr. Honorable President, but I'm sure I'm not gonna be able to get into this conversation at the Senate Hall, but I'm just gonna start writing Facebook records on the community, but thank you for this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u34	A respectable president. I want to thank you again. A senator for the discussion. I'd like to say first that we've been adding up the money set to the parish plans and other plans that were certainly cut down. This is in harmony with the progress of the state funds we make. Now it is that the government will produce a very good home when looking to a government fund, so that the next government that will take over, how it will be organized, will have a fine chance to put large sums of money into the settlements to name something. There's another amazing thing in this discussion, not only that the airport wasn't mentioned but it hasn't been mentioned the greeting system, which is which is, I think, too, in the local discussion, completely new. I'd like to introduce one, for example, to the Westerners. It's a lot of positive and cool things to do on the West. We must not become caught up in talking only about negative images. There's a lot of spacing when it comes, for example. To carnivorous business and so on. There are many creative people in the West who are doing their business, but we also know that the infrastructure needs to be strong so that it can flourish even more. At the end, I would like to say that the government has been using very important measures when it comes to structure, as discussed earlier, the balance of energy costs, and house - to - house expenses, for example, and the fiber - optic project. Now we are entering this new strategy, this new course, which is quite important, although some do not think it is. Of course, much has been said and written on a community, but we need to deal with certain things. We want to make certain use of the tax system. We've set up and strengthened this control group I mentioned earlier. Control team, including.. to prevent, or to try to prevent, what has happened all too often, puts it further in such a way that when one government official intends to add a job or put money on something, it is not on account of another ministry or agency taking a job while, so that the right and left hands are a little working together, not working against each other. Then, of course, as I said earlier, the local people have to have a little bit of saying where and how we work on the settlements. [[The president calls.]] This is true of most things, of course, transportation, energy efficiency, and so forth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u35	V.E.G. President. This is where the social security law is being proposed. In an adjustment process from the greater part of the sledgehammer. The welfare committee says that a change in 20th paragraph should be made. The law where the change is that one parent cannot be specified. The same is true when there is evidence that a surrogate mother is the mother of a child. Localization is prohibited according to Icelandic law. However, the book of Law is being smuggled into a local tunnel. The talk about surrogacy is far larger than it can be handled in this way. So we're going to have a left green vote against this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u36	A respectable president. I think that's exactly what we're dealing with the real problems surrounding the legal status of surrogates. It is especially the part people question in this matter. However, I come to the conclusion to myself, and only to myself, after considering this matter, that I cannot let my attitude toward surrogates hinder child interests. In this case, I appreciate the interests of my children more than the moral principles I have in my own position. The big issue in this is the surrogate, but I don't think it's in the field where we specifically discuss it, but in the exact case, when problems arise, which are the result of our attitude toward surrogateism.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u37	A respectable president. I'm right that the members of this committee party are not under any circumstances saying yes to a surrogate. A well - paying committee has provided a special account because of the bill of the welfare committee and the Senate resolution proposal for a prime minister to provide a bill that authorized a surrogate approach. In view of the accounts that have been received that are many complex and elaborate, the committee does not trust that it is a bill because it contains so many moral and persistent questions and therefore decides to put the matter aside. It's not a matter of decision to make that claim. But with this bill here, it is not under any circumstances to accept surrogacy as such. They are trying to match a particular group of children, though, who have actually come into existence under such circumstances. [[The president calls.]] However, there is no way to confess local passage in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u38	A respectable president. I just can't agree that this word, surrogate mother, will enter Icelandic law. I know people want to try to find a way, and I don't believe anything but to find another way. I am in my heart and a prince's objection to what has been called a surrogate barrier that I just can't even sit by. That's why I'm going to vote back.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u39	A respectable president. I feel sad if this is about to be a locality. Of course, it's about the rights of a child who has nothing to say in what way he has come into the world, is a complete subject in this matter, and I don't think that we're going to allow political differences about other things to distract us so that we can't make decisions about securing a child's rights rights, whatever the world puts. I can't vote against this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u40	A respectable president. I accept the words of the senators who are seated on a welfare committee and here have spoken crediblely, and therefore I vote for this change. I think it's not about surrogacy, as we've seen here, moving it to a book that I'm against her. It's about the rights of children who have nothing to say about how they come into the world, and we need as a community to keep all laws in order to have them finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u41	A respectable president. I'll pass on a vote for the change proposal but I'll vote with the proposal that looks so different. That's because I'm not convinced that the changes are necessarily my thing, but the whole thing is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u42	A respectable president. On behalf of the Professional Road Committee, I recommend a bill to legalize the changing of fish control laws, No. 116/2006, with subsequent changes (silver and macroll). 1st par. "The following changes will be made to temporary VIII of the law: a. Instead of the words ▪20 trains, 2nd issue. 2 mg. They come: 35 trains. b. Case one. 3 mg Saying, Of the price of labour for the hunting of herrings and mackerels at the end of the year 1.mg. " The Law of Jehovah Is Near, " No. 74/2012. 2.g. It reads: This law already comes into force. This report shows that in 1 mg. The provision of temporary VIII by the Management of Fish Fishing Act requires that a minister have a provision for 2,000 trains of Icelandic summer solstice, 2,000 trains of Norwegian-islensk fjord, and 2,000 macroil trains for miniboats. According to 2 mg. these fishing warrants are permitted for commercial fishing and are permitted to be assigned to each ship up to 20 trains of herring or mackerel. According to 3 mg. The price is at this price of 8 K. for each kg of herring or macular. The bill suggests an increase in the amount of supplies that can be distributed by sild or macrol so that 35 trains will be replaced by 20 trains, and it is also suggested that the length of the arrangement be extended. Then it is suggested that the price for fishing be taken by herrings and mackerels, by law on fishing, No. 74/2012. There was an agreement on this in a trade committee. Ólafsdóttir was absent at that meeting; otherwise, the committee is behind the bill. First of all, it is about increasing the resources applied from 20 trains to 35. It is so grown that it must be applied in a so - called colony pot. Newcomers, who are not given a mackerel, can apply to catch from this pot. The application is to be applied no later than on Thursday, that's their rule in Fish Room, and before Tuesday next week you have to pay for what you can distribute, so the distribution is not done until Wednesday. In effect, it takes a week to apply for these sources, so the committee found the number of 20 trains on the smaller side where the fishing has been very recent. The price has been fixed in law 8K. As most of us know, the mackerel prices have been dropped, so mackerel sells at about 50 to 60 k. If there is no change, it can be said that those who apply for this pot and that includes recruits have to pay more than four times as much as others, for this price has to be paid before they catch, and then they have to pay for the price of hunting, as do the rest of the items given. The weather has gone very well, and you can tell me that I looked at a Fish Room this morning, and it shows that lineboats and handboats are actually the only fishing company that's already caught their distribution in the fishing season. Only after fishing, some 1,700 tons. The distribution was 6,000 tons, and it has actually been caught more than that. Other groups of ships, such as the processing of ships or ships, have much to do with their authority. I think it's a total of about 53,000 tons that's going to catch from foreign macrovota. Thus, the committee considers this to be more likely to contribute to the continued fishing effort of small boats and to test how long the macromen are hunting until the fall. The committee believes that this will contribute to the increase in the share of small boats in hunting at macroils and that there will be less left, preferably nothing, of the macroil privileges assigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to explain my position in brief. We've been discussing the matter on a professional committee, but I was away at that meeting when it was taken out. That's why I wasn't involved. I'd like to have it delivered to my book that I want the way of small boats most, I don't cross the case, but I'm not on the grounds that I always think it sucks, and I don't do well at the council when we're handing over a fee or a handshake and moving on as far as possible in various matters and in various aspects of fishing politics. Pills for mackerel are far too low, in my opinion. I don't object that small boats get smaller ones, similar to another drop. That's not what I'm going through, but I want us to keep these things in a different way and have come to that argument. I've talked about looking at marketing solutions, especially for mackerel, and speaking to them at the last legislature when we discussed the new resources. When they were to be checked out, I reasoned that I wanted us to take up some of the mackerel as an attempt to find out if the market couldn't handle this situation better. I think we should move in a little step in that direction, and the mackerel would have been a great start in those cases. As I say, I do not violate this change as such, but I want to keep it in mind that I want to see other methods of controlling the fishing system than that of a hand control that often becomes a frightening attitude. As we see now, things are being arranged afterwards, which are probably doing in this situation, but I wish we had other systems here to work with.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u44	Madam President. I'd like to get involved in the discussion where a professional health committee proposed the proposal here for a change in the law on the control of fishing. Its focus on the presence of smaller species of macroils and herrings, though especially the mackerel. We know he's an amazing creature, and he's coming into our jurisdiction to eat, and we think of this as his food cage, and then he goes back. We can't keep him in the open unless we have another month. It is important that we take advantage of it and hunt the mackerel while it is in our jurisdiction. I'm not talking about my projection having a chance to catch him at a normal price for what it's worth. It was noted in the speaker's talk that the product price on the mackerel has been between 50 and 60 k, as I understand it. I think it's normal that you look at it and that the money the state has taken for access to the pot that is in this social section 3.5%, takes some middle of the increase and is moving down to the existing fishing fee, for which these makings have to pay outside, 2.78 k. As mentioned earlier, there is a big difference between which fishing fees pay the seafood companies for access to the mackerel, and smaller outputs that have to first rent from this pot at 8 p.m. and then paying a catch fee. I believe that it is just and reasonable to contribute this matter and to use the resources we have in the land weekend, i.e. the macro, and therefore do it in this way fast and well. The other thing is, the mackerel has not been in our territory for years. I believe that he could have been taken safely in any other way. This government made the decision to share the mackerel, saying goodbye to him. He's out of his hands today. In the marines, fishing clearances have been shifting to the largest projects, as we calculated. It is also in memory, many who did not have good standards back to three years, so they received little, so they did not consider themselves paying to do out on the high cost they had paid to change their boats for mackerel fishing. So I'm very critical of the decision to greet the mackerel and that he is betrayed. I don't like this system, and I think it's right on the first chance, when a new government gets to power and has some ambition to make changes in the fishing system, to see how it can be done so that others are given the opportunity to have income and access to the resources underneath. Of course, there are tremendous interests involved. In fact, the invitation is given in the Faeroe Islands, where a certain amount of Hoydal and other species are taken up and offered in the country these days. I think we should study it and consider it, even though I'm not aware that the cod we're hunting in Iceland has all come to an auction. It is a different matter and takes much more time to discuss and reason on the consequences. Of course, regarding the mackerel, who is new in the jurisdiction, we would have the courage to examine ways in which we might offer it some way according to the classification of development, making the smaller ones much higher under the head than it did. After doing so, many people withdrew from the table with pain. The cost of making their boats on a mackerel fishing had been huge, but it became apparent that there was no basis for continued operating. I believe the 2,000 tons that are under there of herring and mackerel are very good and important. That's why I think it's right to be on the case and to help make sure that there's a chance for me to take advantage of fishing in a mackerel while he's still on our land weekend.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u45	V.E.G. President. I'll always be a little surprised when people discuss the control of fishing, whether it's a mackerel or something else, talking about some system other than a fiscal system, which has been very good for us. Why should we draw the mackerel out of it? If we just rip up, it's only a short time since mackerel swam into our jurisdiction. What is the reason that we Icelanders share in this total mediocrity pool? She's because some cleaned up, took a chance, went south into the prom sea to catch a mackerel. It's as if the Icelandic politicians are all right when we're deciding how to trade and who to hunt our share in the macrotics that it's some sort of auction or fair instead of building on the fishing experience, that those who made it get a share. Is it really reasonable to think that it will pay and is normal, even though we look only to the constitution that is based on the fact that humans enjoy the rights they thus gain, that they have attended the sea? Believe it or not. A senator, for example, is it beneficial for the economy and country to go some kind of auction route with the mackerel and even any other species we hunt here?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u46	Madam President. I'm not a spokesman for auction itself. I think it's proper to consider in certain cases. That could be the case with the Maori. I'd rather the state have a powerful tenant he rents than renting from each other. Hv. A senator speaks of those who have found hunting experience and who have attended, for example. macroil and other new species should be put in first place. I think it's a very good thing that they did it, and we wouldn't be making it out in Iceland, unless people see their interests in making it happen. It is not as if men are making out just to gain their Icelandic government rights for shared stocks. It makes a lot of money for humans, too. Then let us look to the fact that the owners of an outlaw are not alone. There's sailors and landworkers. What right does it have to this resource? No one. Should it not also have the right to the resource, just as the one owns the ship or the finished operation in the country? Is that not also justice? What does the Constitution say about that, the right people to make these men rich? I think people should start thinking about more than those who own it. The people who own these big corporations now did pretty little if they weren't people to sea and land that would take the catch to shore and process it. I think people should keep that in mind. I believe that fishing is totally possible in this country in a way we don't know what we're doing now. We're looking around the shores of the country and we'll see how this nation's landscape has been treated. The fishing system can be replaced so that it is more acceptable for all, but not just for some.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u47	V.E.G. President. Yes, I agree that it should be shared by the fishermen who draw the fish to the land. Of course, they get a share in valuable things. What I'm saying is that there are these fishing guys who divide the profits between them when they get, who go for this mackerel far beyond our jurisdiction. It is important that they enjoy it. They took the risk, there was no great improvement, and even a loss at first. They make this right, that we Icelanders get a share of harvests in a total cuckoo. I believe it is natural for them to enjoy it. We all enjoy the practical development, sustainable development, and I think it's totally inappropriate for the Icelandic state to come here and say, "I own all the rights. I just want to ask you out so I can get as much money as I can in a state fund at some auction. This may well be harmful to the government and the state funds, but there may be other and much larger discussions. I'm just saying it matters that those who took the risk went far, formed it right, we can't overlook it as some people want to. I'm not saying that. Rather, the senator is determined that we need to look at the fishing experience and that those who know it, those who have done it, will find some way to do it. That's how our whole system's built up. I think it's just. And then we can debate what's supposed to be a lot of taxation on this, what's worth in it. But all that talk about auctioning makes me feel completely ridiculous. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u48	Madam President. Of course, it is typical of conservative independence to talk about this capitalistic bread crumbs theory, that it always collapses some of the pieces of bread of those who get everything in their hands. But that is what separates us from our opinions, my left man, and my left, green and dark. A senator as an independent conservative and spokesman for the market. But if you do. A senator, a spokesman for the market, would expect him to look to market laws regarding auctions. I repeat once again, I will not pass over these auction ideas. I feel that they can apply if my goals are clearly defined. But they are far from where they are from, because they are at risk that they may throw everything to themselves, and others don't have the chance and the opportunity. There may be enough uncertainty about the country's habitats. I believe that this great right which they are supposed to have ahead of all others to the future which have originally been the pioneers that their interests have not been placed in the table and will never be. They will always enjoy being pioneers. No one is talking about their not to enjoy something, but they are not supposed to be alone. We also know how the armada system was built when the captain of the company moved between and every type of action that had nothing to do with the fishing experience. Rather, it was all manner of movement that would supply resources to the few and strong and between parts of the country and leave bleeding behind. I think I know these matters well... that I know the flaws of the eater system. [[The president calls.]] Nobody has to tell me it's happiness at one time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I know we're both built-in and we want the best interests of small boats. We both agree on this, and of course I welcome it, though we do not always agree on the fishing system. At any rate, we agree that we suggest that the small boats, or recruits, who attend this pot pay twice as much as four for fishing. We agree on that. It has been presented in a talk, not by reason. Senator, it was a mistake. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir who objected that we were doing this, but I'd like to draw attention to the fact that this is actually what we're looking from a manual by having a regular nickel in there, this price is moving up and down to the beat of the hunting fee. The rate of hunting is just like that. It's like this under five, seven, forty-four percent. That's why I'd like to ask him why. Senator how she feels about it. Is she okay with a 5% catch fee, or does she want to see a higher number of gross height? Hv. A senator mentioned the auction route. I can't resist the question of what? A senator will see if she can try the auction route by the small boat fleet. If so, how did she imagine it would work for this fleet? Does she not fear that the largest of them would stumble?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u50	Madam President. First, the auction route under discussion. I'm not a spokesman for auction routes, but I'm open to look at the possibility of offering such species as mackerel. There's this kind of thing that's coming in here. It's going to be possible to offer up and try how it's going to come out. Regarding the auction of part of today's social pot, this 5.3%, I would be more impressed with the fact that it would be a powerful taxon of the state that would take the price and the cost of the smaller items involved. I don't know if it would be a good idea if men would start to bite at it, that it would be a big pot that would produce some normal competition, and so on. I don't think it would necessarily be the most reasonable thing in that subject, but you're never supposed to say anything. I'm not going to shut anything down on that subject, because I think it's also relevant to definitions and fences of the projections and other factors involved. It's what it would be like. I've said that this government has fallen flat on everyone and shielded itself behind the fact that it's lowering my makings. Today, we see that the largest water supply pays far less fishing fees than smaller boats at the same hunt. Is that normal? [[The president calls.]] I think there should be a look at the possibility of some sort of step change in our tax system for different types of fishing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u51	V.E.G. President. I come up here to discuss a system change in the Icelandic social security system. It has long been waited for this justice and disappointment that it has been accepted as a minister for all this time to bring it into the council. V.E.G. The minister himself spoke of this as a matter that had been worked in pieces. The truth is, this is at last a change that may cost some money, and it probably has not been trusted to squeeze them out of the fists of the cheap right government, the right government, which has been primarily bringing money from the less money to the more prosperous. In terms of the system change, the system is being simplified and it's very positive. What is also being done is removing a dollar from a coin that is a very righteous action and necessary. That's what I celebrate. But there are things that concern me, and of course, it will soon become evident in the Committee whether it can be done and how it will affect the collection of the bill. When noted that the decrease in propentan is too high, 45%, and especially in conjunction with the lack of free income limits in the system. The simple thing is to combine expansive groups and to cut off credit limits and such, but there were different vacation limits on different revenues in different subsidies. The number of people who rely on the forwards of this system may have lived under the dreary conditions of never being absolutely certain how they could be affected if they lost their income, whether they were funded income, pension income, employment income, or rent. Of course, there is a major system change, and we on the Committee will have to do a very thorough review of its consequences. Then we find it in many of us, although there are a major share of ills in the community, that today's basic pension and pension fund, i.e. A lot of people think that some people don't get paid on social insurance, but I personally believe that the social security system is supposed to be our share, and everyone should have some basic rights in that system. But there is a division of meanings. This is also one of the factors that I know will be discussed in the Committee. I'm not going to go deeper into this system show. It's just something that we're going to get some reviews about and think about, and the committee's going to go over. What I'm worried about is that the insurance is not being raised. Although a number of people increase their dollar raise, they are due to decommissionment of a cent in the United States, but maximum rights continue to be 212,776. for someone who lives with others and 246,902 k. for the person who lives alone. I'm really worried about this. I think it's ambitious, and in view of their feelings of concern to the government, because of the social security system and the attitude of those here at the time we in the United States tried to drive up the raise, but they were infested by the government, I think it's remarkable that a minister over his head has the courage to make these bills unchanged. What we in the United States want and would like for last year and still want to improve the social security back to May 1, 2015 and then have the same reference period as for labour market employees. We would have wanted more elevations and clear plans for pensions to achieve their blundering development in collective agreements. The risk is that when the pay slip is done and if there is no intervention, and social security will adapt to that, you will develop baloney. Dwelling results in roughness. Insecurities are bad. He is unrighteous for any individual who becomes to him, but he is also a social ill. That is why OECD says to the nations: "You, in particular, view evolution as equal, is so important, especially for economic growth. But he's very important to health. It is very important for social cohesion in communities, and that is why we must not let our social security system drive us back to paying back on the development of those in the labour market. In addition, Madam President, I am pleased that the system should finally be simplified and removed from a dollar to one. I don't like that we're going to stop having the system public. I don't have any doubts about a particular process there, and it seems to be a significant serious comment, including... from an older citizen in Reykjavík. Then I feel that the payments are coming too low and that I'd like to see an increase in them. Then I'd like to talk about two other factors, one that I think is a great improvement, which is a provisional principle in Article 18. As the situation today is, if people go to a nursing home, all their payments will go to a certain extent to the nursing home, and people will get only provisions, a maximum of 70 of you. K. per month. But these are changing things so that people get their pay as usual and then pay for the services of the nursing homes. It was reviewed yesterday, I believe it was the right thing to do, Madam President, that there was a why. Árnadóttir That this could involve the trap of several groups having financial problems. I agree with them. But this is an experimental project to make an agreement with one or more nursing homes to test this arrangement. It's been called on for a very long time, and I'm happy and I think it's very important that we take the first step now and see what is possible in these materials. Then it's the law for raising a pension. This has now been discussed on the committee. What I'm most concerned about is when we think about a microenergy pensioner. There are very many women about 60 years of age who go into the disability business because they have a musculoskeletal problem because they work stress and work under circumstances so that they do not have physical ability to work until they are 67 years of age. Women who work hard and earn a living, stand up, and are unable to do so because of physical stress. I really don't feel that such a system change can be made unless it's done by further public health analysis. And there's the key to working protection. In this case, 67 years is not caught in stone. This is an age belonging to the old Bismarck system and has become a fairly intrinsic reference. I'm not going to question the fact that there may not be any basis for raising retirement, since we are much healthier and much older. But I'm worried that there may be a negative outcome in certain groups. I feel that we need to consider this in the context of the fact that while we making decisions in society generally have an average of prosperity, there are plenty of working people in the community who do not have the age of 70. If we are to change these criteria, we need to be much more ambitious in our secular protection. Finally, Madam President, it is totally unacceptable that it is not being made up of the same changes for micro-energy pensioners as that they are to be left behind with a cent across a cent, the group that may be the most vulnerable to the beating of these provisions. There's been reports now that there's something going on in the Ministry. But it's also true that we're going to vote October 29th, but we're not going to have a problem about this, and it's really unfortunate that we're not discussing all of this in context. I'm sorry that micro-energy pensioners are not in there and, of course, we'll be on the Committee's behalf and we'll determine if it's acceptable to leave them in this transition.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask her about the 19th floor. Hv. A senator is spoken of as being equal to justice and in the 19th chapter. considers those in a nursing home. Only those who are qualified and well fed will be there. Those who are there cannot take care of themselves and need help and service. In the past, these people have often been in hospitals because there is no room for the same people in nursing homes. If a person goes to a hospital because of health problems, he or she will not pay for it. But if a patient or adults go to a nursing home because of health problems, they pay for service there. Those with pension or income up to a certain extent, up to 378. K. or more, it usually takes 378 of you. K. into the nursing home. Now I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Is becoming an adult equal and just, so that you have more money than basic pensions or pensions in the social security system, are there people who can't really take care of themselves, and need to be in there? If people are so unfortunate as to own a good pension or possessions, they need to pay more than other people in the same area, but if they were in a hospital, they would get everything free of charge. Where is the equation and justice in this system, a respectable president, and what? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u53	V.E.G. President. Because of what? paritaprevir Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter, Ragnah, asked me about the equation and justice in this system. I don't think so much is there, for I specifically said that I was happy that I was trying to get out of that position. I talked before about people's allowance being about 70 o'clock. K. I was wrong, Madam President. I'm gonna make it right, that's 58,529 you're gonna do. K. But because this has been highly critical, many people have disagreed with what is normal, we must simply say it simply: No one has trusted to change it, for it is costly. That's where the knife's been standing. So I rejoiced that this time I should take steps to change it. It won't be simple. Of course, if we do not start with the task, we will not solve it. That's why I'm happy to say thank you very much. Minister for bringing this proposal into the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u54	A respectable president. I wanted to ask you what I thought. A senator of the best way to handle this system. I've been thinking for a long time that one of the biggest problems, or, in fact, the biggest problem with the social security system is the misunderstanding, especially with other options offered by rural society and so on. I, like other members of Congress, get regular complaints from the users of this system. They usually complain about the amount of money and often go into great lengths about why the system is the way it is and draw my attention to what is completely ridiculous in their view. It's usually been this way over the years that I don't understand the outcome. It's all a lot more complicated than you'd like it to be. This system has to be complex in some way. I don't think it'll ever be very simple. But I believe that the misunderstanding is one of the biggest problems, especially when it comes to trying to solve it by means of some debates and suggestions and refinements. One of the things I'm going to discuss briefly is that here we're talking a few things at once. We are referring, on the one hand, to the simple system and to the amount. Of course, there is always some connection. Would it not be most reasonable to deal with the project by separating it slightly and simply, while trying to make it more reasonable in terms of the amount, etc.? What's the food? A senator president of what? The welfare committee on that? When this is shared, I have found two distinct goals mixed together, the traditional left / right conflict on what is fair and what is just, and the goal that all must share in common, i.e. To make it simple. I'd love to get a second opinion. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u55	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's query, and yes, the system is truly complicated. It is a great deal of justice to simplify it so that people can better understand their rights. It should also be noted that if you do not have certain rights in the social security system, you also lose other social and social rights. So it's very complex. There's a distinction here. This is a system change without doing anything about the funds. A little more money comes into it because a dollar or a dollar goes out, but you can certainly make these changes without raising the amount. But in view of the fact that this government has left behind a pensioner, has failed to pursue the social security system as it should, I find it strange that she will finally allow herself to make this change, which is almost comparable to the suggestions proposed less than four years ago, and that she will not be able to provide money to improve something. But the changes can be made in two ways. The question is, Is it preconceivable to all the tens of thousands of people who rely on advancement from this system and who have not received similar increases as other members of society?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u56	A respectable president. If you look at the cost analysis, as I understood it in the bill, you're not moving much when it comes to the financial expenses. Of course, you're right. But this also concerns a changed pension age in the bill. This is not much critical of the bill on my part, but it is rather a question of how we should approach the subject. If, on the other hand, we are always mixing fair reasons for what is reasonable and which is not, and how to simplify the system, I am concerned that what everyone should really agree on would become unnecessaryly compatible with something that is conflicted when the goal is really simple. On the other hand, when we discuss the sums and reasonable questions, there are naturally much greater and more political differences. But I really like this bill that it seems like it's mostly a stream of simplicity. As I said before, it always means the amount, it always affects the amount, so it always gets mixed up. Of course, we should try to keep these factors as little as possible together, i.e. if the aim is clearly to simplify the improvement system. Then I wonder what it's like. A senator would do this himself, apart from the expected faster doing this in view of criticism. Senator. In case of a moment. A senator would be a welfare minister, would she not offer different bills that tried to separate these factors to the best of their ability? Would you be here maybe two bills instead of the same? I wondered about the procedure because I really care to simplify my system just so I can answer the questions I get when I walk around town. I find it hard to answer them, and I thank them for their confession because everyone else has the same problem. It seems to me that's the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u57	V.E.G. President. In February 2013, the UN President proposed a bill to change the social security law. The bills that have been crushing here during this terms are devastated by that bill. Small changes and numbers of committees have made no remarkable progress and few progress. So I wouldn't have any problem putting in a welfare minister for changing the social security law. I totally agree with what. A senator says that a system change is needed. We could have done that three years ago. On the other hand, social security is the basis for the income balance system here on the country. We have the tax system and, on the other hand, the social security system. These two systems form systems that balance income to ensure the implementation of all Icelanders. After the issues here have been raised, I would point out that when such a significant bill is being presented, I feel that it is not at the same time being responding to the call for an increase in social security. That was the point in my case, but that is also what this government has to face with the voters will achieve this bill. And as I came to see in my case, there's a lot I really like on the bill, but there's a lot we have to talk about right there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then there's a bug that's not raising the payments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u58	Mr. President. I'm just gonna go over a little bit about changing the social security law. There has been a long wait to get some sort of dresser compensation for the group of older people. It is memorable when we were standing here making budgets, and it was required to gain the benefits, which could not be done according to what was said, and our suggestions in the smaller section of the council were dropped. It's not that the bill is completely impossible, it would be better now. There are some things that are fine, and we senators have seen no restitution other than the older citizens'national relations, where the decrease of a dollar and the improvement of a team will be combined. As we have entered earlier on the 18th floor. left him. Þóra ThatSteinunn what happened yesterday. Its focus is on performing a study project, or it refers to one or more nursing homes, the arrangements for the payment of the local population. Looks like I'm supposed to get to everybody that matters. It's to ensure all minimum pay, i.e. They should be given around 58. K. for the provision money. In turn, those who do well financially have to pay more. It was suggested that, if the change takes place, nursing homes will have to pay for their own public living, i.e. food, cleaning, laundry, leisure work, and rent, as presented here. Then you need to think about those who are sliding and under there and getting a minimum wage of 58 of yours. K. may not have much leftovers. I think it would be a very good thing if this were very good on the part of the Committee. This bill has been highly critical, although many feel that the worst are the interests of the worst, has the lowest progress, improved by this bill. But it's been confirmed here that it's not, either, it's more about those with a pension fund. They're the worst in the world that only gets a pension from social security, i.e. I'm just in a striped pension. V.E.G. In some speech, a minister said that their future benefits would be improved. The benefits of those with a pension budget are somewhat improved, but insurance pensions are more impaired, and other income also reduce the pension. The money fund is our property that pays you into it, so it seems odd to you that once you've been collecting a pension, paying off your income, and putting down a tax payment it's something that's not gonna work for you, i.e. In fact, it is suggested that insurance agencies be an extra issue, but the financial funds are the main focus instead of the building system being based on an insurance agency rather than on the reverse. At least that's how I experience this bill even though I want to state that I haven't read it yet, but I've just slipped through it. It's not a simple thing. The pension in neighboring countries is that I understand considerably higher. Similarly, income connections are not as well known as ours. It speaks of raising the age of pension from 67 to 70 years of age. Many find it good when others feel free to do so. He's lower, for example. In Finland, over a period of about 63How65 years, he spends a total of 60 years in other parts of the north. Still, we work much more than our neighbors in the North countries. So there is much to consider. I haven't felt this bill has put its arms around it... and I haven't heard the person I've heard... who are, for example, the one I've heard. ... ona welfare committee. Our neighbors are also lower than our neighbors, even though they have a brilliant economy. We've heard the government taste a little because there's a lot of money, but they're all going to pay off debt. It's like the lowest wage, because the lowest pay for a job is very low, that's somehow never time, that's never the time to go up. Pensions for the elderly who live alone are just over $22,000. And they'll see every wise man that it's completely unacceptable. Older citizens have made the same demand that their pension be at least 300,000, as the minimum wage was required. After all the procedures in this case, i.e. a conversation on the board of Peter's committee for some year is the conclusion that the basic pension is not to be raised. I would have personally wanted to put more money on raising the basics of those who have nothing else. I believe that the highest. Ministers, like others, receive phone calls from people who do not have anything else to offer and possibly support from their company, even for their need of each month. These are the people we need to focus on, I think, before we start thinking about the people who have a pension fund or the people who can be working longer. This is one of the things I believe the committee is doing well. There is also a very low income target. It is like those with disabled persons, such as seniors, that the workforce must also be ready to let people continue and even invite them, if they choose, part - time, or so. But the workforce has certainly not been that way, it must be said right now. It is also important that it is said that there is no discussion here on the issues of disability but only of older citizens. Work management regulations were taken, though at the highest level. A minister has made clear that it is still being worked and implemented, but the labour market has not been receptive to offering work to people who may have 30 percent of their ability or something like that, even rock. Of course, you know that being a patient is not always a simple matter and maybe a day's difference in people, and as a result, it cannot always be a bus. There are others who have a certain ability to work, and they have cars at work. It applies both to seniors and disabilitys, for it becomes the poorer citizens. There's nothing different about it. As we look at the reviews the older citizen's Félaða sent away, and the books they made on the committee, they rejoice in what I started talking about, i.e. To combine basic pensions, income insurance, and productions into one of my pensions. They, however, suggest that with the improvement in the economy, this decrease in pension policy will be reduced in stages over the next few years. It's not expected here. They're taking up a pension age. In itself, I can totally agree with that. It is sometimes said that 60 is the new 50, which is, of course, the best. So let them say that working age and pensioning become more flexible so that 50% of your pension can be taken and at 50% of your job. They say, as I told you before, that here is primarily a support to those with pensions, i.e. This decrease, a 45% decline rate, of all income. A table in the bill shows who comes out better than others. It has to be said at the moment that it is striking how low this amount is. If a person has 150 you. K. ... anddoesn'tliveone as soon as he gets down by 5 of you. K. It's a lot when you don't have any more. If he lives alone, he gets cut by less than 15 yards. K. Well, I'm not talking about less than this, but I'm not talking about people who even need to buy drugs and that sort of thing. They also call attention to the fact that this vacation target is, in fact, contrary to the Commission's opinion on reimbursement of social security, resulting in 2009 proposals. It is not suggested to take off the income market but to suggest that the future policy will be a significant increase in the number of vacation markets. The aim has been to increase reasonableness in the social security system and to achieve that goal best by reducing the degree of impairment. This law gets a function of the individual involved. I know it's seldom that we get all the things we want, whoever we are and at any time, but it's no secret that we've been going near this group after a crash, and that's what it's always been, it's always been too low. Because these people have done their work in the past, you feel that they should do better when it comes to things. I'd like to see the Minister go into this with a basic pension. I accept the opinion of an older citizen's partner that the pension fund will be an additional one. According to these bills, all pensioners who are under those minimum limits, i.e. below 100 you. A.K., slightly higher pay. But those who make more than 400. will decrease, and will be explained by the deduction of the rule that pension fund does not interfere with pensions. According to this review, 2,200 people will have a reduction and no pensions from a insurance institution if the bill succeeds. [[Up front.]] - Secretary calling in. I have no doubt that those with decent income may not necessarily need a pension, but this bill is the main thing that goes out on those people, i.e. who have no other income, but not the worst.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u59	V.E.G. President. We're discussing something very important. Not only is there a great deal of growth with a report but it would be very important when it was made up for the standard of living in a large number of individuals. The first thing I'd like to stress is that we have to look at this matter, the social security bill, in relation to what happens within the pension fund because the processing table of the labour market parties and the government is also primes at the pension fund in the country. I don't think this can be understood. I agree with the words of Harpa Njáll in an in - depth article published in the Morning Press, where it calls attention to this. Harpa Njáls is an expert on welfare policy. This is the first thing. The second point is that although this matter has been developed for a long time, and I don't doubt that humans have tried hard to work hard there and look for extensive consultations, it is still that some members, the government groups, and the Micronition, are not involved in this bill or support it. This is the second factor I wanted to draw attention to. What I want is the connection between the social security and this bill on the other hand and the pension fund. What's being done here is moving the age line to take a pension from 67 years to 70 years. It will be possible to take a pension earlier than 65 years of age with impairment. I say, there needs to be a connection between the agelines in the general pension system and a pensionary age at the pension fund. In the general pension fund, this limit is 67 years. Incomplete pensions from the government Department of LSR are at 65 years of age. It is now spoken of in the labour market agreement to bring this threshold up, to set the thresholds from 65 years to 67, and according to this as I understand it, the target is set over 70 years because it has to be interconnected, I have a right to an uninvolved pension from public security at the same time as rights of the pension system closes. So we'll see where the guide points. It's talking about moving the dates all over the world up to 70 years. What does that mean? Does this change when people from the public, e.g. Can go to pension? No. People have been in the so-called A Department of Pension Funds since the beginning of 1997 when it was negotiated for the new order of pension on the public market and for the public. Then a rule was created that is set for 65 years by the calculator, the zero point. If you decide to go to a pension earlier than 65 years, then the pension will be reduced by 0.5% per month, being cut by each month. What does it mean for someone who gets 300 grand? K. In a pension fund? That's 1,500 bucks. per month. One person who went to a pension from his 60's lowers his pension by 90 far. K. every month, from 300 you. K. He drops it down to 210 yards. K. However, if he postpones making a pension until he is 65 years old, he increases his pay from the pension fund by 0.75 percent. What does it mean for the person with a count of 300 fars? K.? That means 2,250K. every month, every month he gets more money for his own money. Now we're getting the suggestions to move this formula into. What does that mean by the crowns? That means impairment, this great impairment. That's why I say this bill must be considered in the context of negotiations between a public labour market and public employment market. It is now making some agreements that must be made known. We need to discuss all of this in context. I'm well aware that government employees want insurance at their remuneration, pay deposit. It should be automatically. When I entered a labour market in the late 1980's, this financial insurance was contained in an arrangement that assumed special contracts in which the state and also the rural communities changed the pay of their employees according to experiences in accordance with the pay box on the market of special agreements. Now you're going to create an automatic mechanical connection between them. I have serious doubts about that. The same thing was tried in the '80s. Then they were to sell the rights, disable the rights of public employees, reduce them to a pay raise. In 1990, I think it was, we managed to avoid it. Lucky for you. At that time, the requirement was always to lower, equalize the pension rate, downhill. That was always a requirement. We were able to resist this and improve the pension rates that led to higher rates of pension in a public market. That was the result. Now the pension fund is in 15.5%, then the property savings is on top of it. It's a lot of money, a lot of money. One day a week, you're working for the pension fund. I believe that the whole pension system needs to be taken for surgery. [[The point is, how?]] I've suggested that we rethink our material production and to what extent we should be inside the flow system that I think we should go back to an increased degree. I would have wanted and talked in my last term that we would take a part of a resource fund like the Norwegians do and put it in the social security system. That's where a parking truck would be used for that. That's what I'm saying without having some serious condemnation of this bill. I don't want to do it simply because I haven't done a lot of research. I'm simply saying that we need to be careful, and we need a lot more discussion, including the labor movement and the community in general on this context. What's a little scary about all these contracts is that men are negotiating in a way that they've all guaranteed under their own feet and then negotiated for less terms into the future, feel that they are securing the future of people by raising their salary and creating mechanical screws in the context that I allow to say that I don't believe in. I don't believe they think. So I say, in spite of all the hard work that has been done and I'm not minimizing it at all: let's look at all this context. Let's take a slow walk to the ground. Let's get more articles, more views, more attitudes, because we're talking about our pension rights into the future. We have heard now, not just now for a year or a year before or during the last term and then, as well as the time when the elderly may not be suitable enough for them. Then let us take no steps that make them worse. Let us take care of that. Then we need to continue to take these matters into critical discussions. I think, for example. that it was a good initial step, not in the last government, but in the past, when distinguishing between disability, not putting every invalid under the same hat, those who have been in the labour market, who have received disability from pension funds, and those who have never entered the labour market, and who have to rely entirely on the public pension system. We began to divide the groups. The same applies to the elderly. It also requires that this separation be carried out. There is no need to talk about disability in general and the elderly in general. We need to examine each group's circumstances. It is the natural problem in the social security system that, on the one hand, is called on clear lines, clear laws, clear rules, everything is transparent, and justice is called for, as I am doing, often meaning complex rules because people's lives and standards and ideals are being met in general. So it's hard to do. V.E.G. President. This is what I really wanted to emphasize. It's supposed to be a slow pace. Let's get out of the public market contracts, general employment markets, just ahead of time, we're not supposed to get it done, and we're not supposed to have that kind of thing brought in before the end of the council, so we can't do that. I don't know what's going on up at the Ministry of finance. What's going on there? They're not on the table at the highest. Department of Social Affairs, Department of Health. They're already in the Ministry of finance. I agree with those who say, "This case must be taken into account. They're all under the exact same umbrella. That's how we deal with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son for his speech. A lot of interesting things that came out there. In general, it has been very interesting to listen to the discussion on this bill. Commenting on the fact that the case was not made earlier, we began a recent report on the Committee and have been working the bill since then in a group of work where key players are involved. I am absolutely convinced that all members of this committee or other committees who came to work on social security, whether we are talking about the Annual Committee during the last term or the committee discussed here and produced 2009, have really tried to make suggestions. Exactly like what. A senator named them, we have so many individuals who live in so many situations. Then there are these views: Do we want to have a simple system, or do we want to try to meet as many people as possible, which means a measure of communication? I can agree with that too. A senator notes the importance of taking note of the interaction between these of our key systems, the pension system and the social security system. That's the main thought of these changes. However, there are regulations in the bill where we say that changes in the law on the pension fund must be made at the same time to make sure that they reach their goals. What I've been doing during this term is that there are so many other things that are also playing outside the social security laws or social assistance laws. My priority is the housing business. That's what I've been stressing and worrying about most because the figures, the social references as the former government, are what they are. A senator sat in, suggested, showing us that the people who have mentioned their hands in Iceland are the rent - rent people, the people who have a lot of medical expenses. That's exactly what we've put first in the terms of the season, i.e. to change rent markets, increase housing support and establish a real payment system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u61	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Ministers for her responses that were fine, and especially against one thing, we agree on the need to look at the overall issues, the social security systems and the changes we make in it, don't talk about age-changes in accordance with what happens in the pensions. That's not where changes are made. We are told in the media that it is being discussed, machines about it, but we do not know exactly what it is but that it is said to be equal. Then I ask and have often asked about it before in this discourse: Which way, up or down? I've been in charge of the declarations of paymen, especially of the European Union of Iceland, that the idea of moving down is to bring the rights of public employees down to the level of what happens in a general labour market. I want to go the other way. I want to move those that are up above. This has been our struggle goal for decades. There I refer to the organization that I have developed from, BSRB, and we have had a lot of success in this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u62	A respectable president. I believe that the welfare committee will well review what has been presented here in 1st. I am very grateful that she has been a meaningful and effective preparation for the committee on the progress of the situation. I also want to say, in view of my experience, that I worked closely with the labor movement on these big housing issues, including the U.S. and now regarding changes in social security and general employment markets, that those who took the lead in the labor movement of public employees have done a great job in my opinion and will certainly care for the interests of their clients.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u63	V.E.G. President. I have no doubt that men have done well in their work and that they had good intentions. It is natural, though, to respect the fact that all of us are going to have these views. We stand here, and I stand here on the talk chair hired to express my opinion and perspective. Of course I will. If I don't know what my former unions are doing, I'll tell you. It is called a democratic debate. It's always for good, I suppose.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting talk now as usual. Hv. A senator mentioned in his talk that he had gone into a work market in 1980. Actually, the person standing here is not born yesterday but was born in 1980, so I have not been close to as extensive a knowledge of evolution as this last 36 years or so. Senator. But I already would. A senator began to talk about the difference between 67 years and 70 years, if I understood it correctly. So I'd like to hear a little bit more about it because if I understand correctly, I'm not sure that it is, there's a difference that makes it that some rights of people get affected. I'd like to hear more about this, and I'd like to ask myself, " If I can't have different ages without any such problem? ' I'm not entirely convinced that I understand the problem exactly. Hv. A senator had numbers that I liked to hear. Also, I'd like to hear more about the idea of each one. A senator's reimbursement in the context of the pension fund, that's the way the resource fund works, the idea of teaching children something in elementary school works as a solution to everything. It's a little bit of a treasure that's working like that. I'd like to hear more from what happened. A senator on how he provides for the resource fund to live up to what we are discussing here, but more is involved in this over 67 years and 70 years, the difference between whether this difference caused some degree of impairment. A senator and then what can be done to prevent it. [[The president calls.]] Does this need to be a common legal age? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u65	V.E.G. President. I believe that the nature of the matter is aimed at it and must become a fixed integration in the agelines set out in the social security system on the other hand and in the pension fund. You must have a right to a non-involved pension on social insurance when your rights in the pensions go out. My criticism is that one thing cannot be resolved with another. I'm warning you then that the move of age in the public funds, which is now zeroed to 65, will translate if these boundaries are added to a substantial failure of a pensioner from there. I mentioned 0.5% per month of each game and 0.75% of it, i.e. This is the benefit after 65 years of age. We're talking about, not just about age, we're talking about a dollar in your pocket after you're in a pension and a considerable amount of money. A person who goes to his pension at 60 years of age will reduce his payment if he has 300 you. K., about 90 ounces. K. every month by leaving earlier. Of course, this date depends on where they are set. Then the other thing is the resource fund and disappearing from that vast treasure generation. I have reasoned that I believe the pension fund is just too big for our economy. In particular, this was dangerous when the currency heads were and had been, locked up, and you get this greedy capital of bait out here on every ground and become too dominant in the Icelandic economy, I think I am. I think there's too much risk in this too. Therefore, my proposal was that we should be like the Norwegians who, to some extent, take the oil reserve into the social insurance and give the resources that would come to pass into public insurance for some of their financing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u66	A respectable president. I can see that in the future we will have to change these ages very regularly because the nation's age mix is changing, and it's changing towards a larger proportion getting older. That's why I wonder if we don't have to coordinate this age over the whole area, i.e. between the pension system and the pension system, unless this should always be a problem that we especially need to stop every time. Is it not some age that all of us must agree that there should be somewhere in some area, so increasing that age is not a big thing in the way of time? Because one thing that happens over time is that we grow healthier, contrary to what most people think, and that we can work longer. This, of course, has such effects, and there is no evidence that this trend will soon change in the future. So I wondered about future solutions to the problem. Surely we are going to allow it to stop us from changing the system every time it arrives in the next few decades. So I wondered, " How can I solve that problem permanently? ' I can only imagine two things. It's the case, and I'm interested in what you think. A senator's job is to coordinate this age so that it's always discussed all at once automatically, undeniably if we moaned about changing it in one place. The other is to change this somehow with this impairment, which, in fact, I don't see quickly how you could do it without challenging the purpose of the system to begin with, i.e. These impairments either do not occur or are simply mild or what. It's a lot of impairment if people take out too early as a whale. A senator goes over. I can't see the solution there myself. It's just the one thing I can think of, or it's the only thing I can think of having it all worked out. If that explains my question, I hope so. A senator can go in on it a little bit. Or, is this so that every time we have to go all the time, we have to go really slow? [[The president calls.]] Then I realize that the development of this class would be relatively slow as time goes by.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u67	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I think evolution should be slow because we're dealing with such a huge deal. What's happened with the pension age is that we now have this running in it. We can go to a pension from 60 to 70 years of age, so it's up to us. And it's an insurance calculation of the degree of impairment, the self-sustaining thought behind it, for every month if you go into pensions before 65 and what the benefits are left, 0.5% before, 0.75% to go. Why the difference? That is because as we grow older, our lifestyle decreases. It can pay for the pension fund to keep us working longer. That's what I'm thinking. It's just insurance calculations. What I'm saying is, in fact, we're not discussing when people go to pension because the curve is right there, it's right there. We can totally control it. The question is what the formula is supposed to be about our standard of living. That's the big question. That's what we're dealing with. That's where I'm saying we're not supposed to finish this discussion without getting very good into it. Now I'm told that the agency of public employees is negotiating a change in this system and the condition of getting some pay raise into the contracts I allow me to have certain doubts about. This was tested at the end of the 1980's and left behind. Pension rights were held. We continued to improve them and to improve them for everyone, including the growing general labour market. At that time, the Allied Union, unfortunately, fell against this proper benefit of public employees, there was a disagreement on that, which resulted in the raising of their companions. [[The president calls.]] This is reality. Let's look at him.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u68	A respectable president. I will speak a little sooner than I would have liked to discuss this discussion, perhaps following a different talk. I would have liked to hear from what. A senator because I find it so interesting as he says it. For this one. I will review what I have considered in this matter. First, I'd like to agree, though it may not be the main thing, which has been told by someone else. Parliamentaries and is that these amounts are too low, i.e. those that happen to users of the system. Surely, there is something that we need to deal with. Although it's not about the nature of this case, it would be normal for me to deal with the problem at the same time, which is not something I simply expect of people, because it's a complicated case, and it mixes with fair reasons for the amount and how the system works. As you can see in this bill, the amount of money changes according to the circumstances of people, as you would expect it to be an important system change. Here's a reminder to simplify the system and change the pension age, make it a little more flexible. I myself believe, as I have considered several times, that the complex phase is the biggest problem with these systems. I find it difficult to discuss the competitiveness without the system being simpler because when users themselves get into trouble, by any means, a dollar to a dollar to a dollar degree, which is blessed with this bill, or interaction so that two systems will have a negative impact on each other or something like it, it is no longer a question of what the law would want to have fair but how the system has actually broken out against the user, without someone having necessarily intended to have it. These are problems that arise when systems are complex, problems people don't know how to solve, no matter how much they want to do. That's why it's so important to simplify our systems. I agree with someone else. A senator who spoke earlier that I think the system needs a complete reexamination. I realize perfectly that it is not easy to do so. It must be measured, and it will take time, and it is a complex project that I do not expect to be one of the highest. Minister on the inside. I think it's a project that has to do much more than give it to one particular politician, even if he has part of the government with him on his side. I think this case is of that nature. The argument is supported by the claim that despite efforts to simplify it, the system is still very complex. I think it's in my eye as soon as it's mentioned. As I said earlier, I rejoice that a dollar in return has been removed from the bill. I hope then it's gone, though I have to admit that I don't know all the smells of these systems well enough to know if there's a similar problem elsewhere. But this is certainly what I've heard most complained about. I believe here is the issue of history, I hope so. Hv. It's probably better with a welfare committee. It is generally difficult to make structural changes so that they will not be harmed. I think it's always so they don't get hurt. Then, too much good is to be seen, and it is preferably possible to deal with the temporary arrangements for a system to catch people who become part of a system change. It's complicated, of course. It's not easy making a safety net around it, either, I figure it out completely. Although I would like to consider other psalms that others have not done, I feel that it is worth mention of social security. This is also a feature that I see very much around the foreign languages and is a characteristic of a system full of handnails. The global insurance system we've decided to set up is designed to help people in need. What, then, must be done? Yes, people need to be kept in need. It is highly fitting that people are not being given money that is not meant to be given. This attitude is bound to be included in the system, and it is also seen by the legislatator and whole society, I would say. The same is true in foreign languages. There are certain conditions that we have set. We're going to give these and this group and the other opportunities or the other rights, and then we need to make sure that the person deserves it in some way. This means that when we engage in the work of deciding who deserves what, we tend to include rather than personal factors, personal factors, such as If you have a mate, something I think with personal things in each person's life. Another factor may not be quite as personal, but it is certainly an opportunity for people to make practical application of situations, and it is whether they live with others. This has been a bit difficult for me to talk about, both in Generals and in general, because it is as if society has decided that it is normal for us to take into account the factors when we define improvements and rights. I want to tempt that ideal, and I'm completely open to objections, but I think they can get in the way and get in the way of how close people have been to such questions over the years. I looked up a calculator for pension money, and it's asked if you have a mate and if you live alone, and I got a little offended because I don't feel that it has anything to do with the system. I feel that it takes some money not to ask their questions, maybe not 50 billion years, but I think it's all right if it's realistic that some money will be taken to break away such a question. There's something that needs to be discussed in a better void, not necessarily on this occasion, but I'd like to throw this out because I don't quite feel like what the Icelandic and Icelandic people would like to go far into people's personal lives in general life. All I need to mention is a national record that could go on shorter than that, especially in the light of technical advances and means of achieving some goals without going so far into people's private lives. But I also consider it worth mention when we discuss social security and a similar system. As stated in the report, by permission of the President: As shown in Table 3, professional pensioners are likely to get worse in almost all cases according to the new rules than according to local rules. It is only the incomeiest and the income - making ones in the range of some 374,0003/4473,000 jars. in a month of employment, which will receive as high or higher pay in a new system as it is in the current system. With the premonition that I don't fully understand this system, there is always this tendency to make sure that we only make sure that there are compensations that we've decided to deserve, and then we put together restrictions that may have unwanted consequences. I'd like to mean that a lot of income connections, especially large but also mere subsidies in their nature, are in a way that discourages them. They are so that when a person with no income and the use of pension or social security or whatever, any system in which he is in the position of reducing his income by earning a job, it is in practice to that user tax, even a lot of tax, depending on the circumstances. It has a discouraging effect. It involves an inevitable waste, a waste I don't think will help anyone, a waste for the individual who is not only a financial one but also in the sense of freedom. I think most people want to do something. Many people haven't figured out what they want to do, but I'm totally convinced that almost all people want to do something. They want to be part of a community. They want to matter. They want to make or participate in something. When the system is designed to deal with people, it discourages them. I don't have a complete solution for it. I would link it to the civil pay discussion, which, in fact, is quite different from all this discussion and, of course, at the very beginning that it can be viewed only for the future. I'm not suggesting we pick up civil pay, I don't think it's time and it's real now, and it's probably not gonna be decades, but it's worth looking ahead on how the situation changes, especially unemployment because of technical progress. But there is another discussion. I'm not going to get very deep into this. The very concept behind civilian pay is that there is an enormous waste in our present systems because of this influence, an effect that no one wants to have there, an effect that no one would want to be there, but still there. These are the side effects of the systems we've built up by being constantly shielding us. The lips are natural, certainly understandable, and even necessary, but they inevitably have these effects. I think we should keep that in mind when it comes to this. I have to agree with that. paritaprevir Jónasson's son's attitude is that it is a little bad how late this matter is discussed at this assembly. It would be nice to have more time to discuss it, especially if it is to be done more. Similarly, I have to say that I find the discussion to be just as useful even if it is now, it is here for the future, and further information will be obtained by the Committee. I think there are some things that are very important. A welfare committee will review thoroughly, including the context of the pension system and the field illustrations for simplicity, and preferably, at least, to see what may be more simple. The authority to take part of my pension is interesting to me. I have to say right now, I have so little time to discuss this, that I don't quite understand exactly how it should work, but like the highest. A minister himself mentioned in his first talk is something that the committee brings to a closer look and hopefully to a good degree. It's an interesting approach, especially if the payoff target is canceled, as I understand it. When I sat here in the hall earlier and was listening, especially to what. Jónasson Ögmundur couldn't help feeling that there was a special assembly to discuss these matters. Then I immediately thought that this was true of many more lawsuits. I don't think we'll ever get a very deep discussion about this group of litigators, and so do many lawsuits, in the councilroom. We usually get an excellent discussion in committees. It also takes time. They are closed, they are not radioized, which means it is harder for the public to get into their conversations. These conversations are often, based on my experience, what sheds the best light on large and complex issues, not necessarily all issues, but certainly big and complex issues, except among those who have taken some special interest in them or who simply have experience in their own personal or professional systems. I'm not going to keep this any further at this time, a respectable president. I still have to decide how I feel about this whole matter, which is the nature of the opinion that the committee needs to consider so that they can come to a better understanding. I think this discussion is important and I expect it to continue very far into the next terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u69	V.E.G. President. I like an interview with what. A senator of some time ago reminding me that the subscription was ▪ Congregation is not the goal of the year. That's where it went. A senator over the various groups that are in a desolate state, listing a group that he called "futures." I've asked you once before. A member of this group, whether this group is growing or decreasing, whether or not it is sexualized, i.e. whether this group contains the same amount of both sexes. I'd also like to go inside. A senator by what he said earlier about people wanting to work but who had not yet found out what they wanted to do. Now it seems so bad that the part of the Commission's proposal for reimbursement of social security that the energy assessment failed to establish, a significant percentage of the opposition of Iceland's Qualified Community, which I actually thought would welcome these reports, but it wasn't. But my main question to what? A candidate is about this group he could handle during the interview from the past and whether he can inform me and the people about the group that this is and how it is made up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u70	A respectable president. I remember that reason. A senator asked me this question before, and I have answered it before.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u71	...not an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u72	Hv. A senator believes he has not received an answer. Then we'll just try harder. I hope I have a little more time for that right now. It's not true that I said that equalizing was not a goal. I said that in my mind, it wasn't just that everyone really deserves the same thing, it was not necessarily a justice matter, it was a financial matter. I'm just as an agent. I am now a liberal relative, and I have no reason to change my mind even if, of course, I give it a chance over time. But the reasons for this, as I tried to explain in this interview, are primarily economic, not just the rights, although they are also there. I think it's a matter of economic importance that there's an equality in the community. I think it's important that the economy be useful to as many people as possible. It's not true that I said that equalizing was not a goal or that it wasn't important. It's a goal, and it's important, and I believe it and I'm equal, so I hope it's clear. I hope so. At any rate, a senator allows me to have the views I personally have, I hope it will not be hardened any further. My comment, I don't remember exactly how I put it, but I certainly used the word ◯ummurs, were not to specify a group according to my knowledge, so I can't answer the question. A senator about sex or what group it is. What I was referring to is the attitude that many people have that they are prone to social security, unemployment benefits, and a number of such equations give strength to losers, those that other people feel to be losers, not to me. What I was trying to say is, "Yes, you know what, it's okay. It's okay that there's some expense, the cost of it, which goes to a bunch of losers, but I'll answer to the population, because it's not as important as watching it, and that the people who need these devices can get these payments. [[The president calls.]] It was in that context that I used the word, at least to do it. I hope now I have answered the question. A senator will be happy to do so again if this still exists.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u73	I'm glad to hear it. A senator is provided with an increasing equation. So we are in the same boat because the proposals of the Committee as they are available and the discussion of the Committee went very hard on the possibility that men had an opportunity. I have not yet fully understood the explanation of this particular group that I asked earlier in spite of my words. A senator, but I'm taking it so that he believes that according to a public rumor, there's a group within the host who really isn't a cripple but is such by his own wish and/or personal initiative. I'd like to get this clear from the senator because if it is, I completely disagree with him. I believe that people who now enjoy these benefits, which many people think are considered to be narrow - cut, including me, have passed through food, microenergy evaluations, where experts have determined that they do not have the ability to function. That is why I still want to, away from this undefined group as a dog. A public speaker seems to have launched a public talk, asking him about the attitude I had at the moment, whether he believes that the performance assessment as suggested by the Commission's proposal of social security is more likely to assist these people in becoming more active members of society. Then I am not talking about saving money to the state but of making the individuals able to reimburse more active members of society so that they will have a more full and meaningful life. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u74	A respectable president. I can't give a final answer now what I think of my ability to work. I've had a quick look at it. But the criticism I heard about it has not completely been able to relate to the ideas I've heard about the ability to work so far. At the moment, I'm in favor of it, hoping it will have the effect of it. A senator mentioned. I can't really answer that question better at this point, not until I've had a chance to learn more about the difference between the quality of life and the current structure. But according to everything I know about it, that's a step forward. As far as this group is concerned, I think, more respected President, at least. A senator tries to be more shocked by these comments than is necessary. That's how it is in a community of hundreds of thousands of people, and we've created a system of tens of thousands of people. Of course, this discussion is always there and has taken place here in the Senate Hall and especially since then. 2.m. Reykv.. s. at a time, which is a candidate, h. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, that there are people who misuse the various systems. Of course, it's always there. Whether it's 0.1% or 1% or 3% or what I don't know. There are others who know better, I have at least one. I didn't hear very large numbers at those committee meetings that I've been looking for. Of course, that group is there. He's probably very small, or at least I think he's very small. But every time we discuss these matters, you become constantly afraid you won't do this or the other because there'll be some group that others call a loser more than they deserve. What I'm saying, for I seem to be more equal than a boy. A senator is that if I understand the critics correctly, I feel that this is an acceptable sacrifice, certainly to some extent, to make sure those who still need them. I think it's the most important thing, far more important than the fact that we're constantly wondering if this or the other one is cheating on a system. It can happen well in all systems. There's no blame for any group. [[The president calls.]] It's just the nature of human society. I'm the one standing here saying, "We're supposed to stop wondering if these people are calling us losers or not. " That's not the main thing. [[The president calls.]] The important thing is that people get what they deserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u75	V.E.G. President. I want to express my satisfaction that this bill is being passed here. It is based on the results of a committee on a review of social security that was initiated by Pétur Blöndal, who was then controlled by his sickness and relief. I need to express my special satisfaction that the main objectives of the committee decision, i.e. The transparency and simplicity of the system should be returned to the bill. It is true that the bill as it is available will not solve any human problem because what it is in general and will deal with general improvements in the laws we have had here in recent decades. These laws have been modified and so complex, such as today, so that there is no man in Iceland who fully understands them. We had a very good member of the Committee who was suspected of being the only man in Iceland who fully understood the social security system. He mentioned it very early in his ministry that it was overeat, he did not. Each of us realizes that when the system becomes so complex that no one can accept the ability to understand it properly, it is time to change it. Before this committee, there may have been four, five such committees at work. I am very grateful that this is probably the first time that the results of such committees go so far that her proposals go into the bill, and they are recommended here at the Great General Assembly. It is a cause for rejoicing. There are also some interesting things in the bill and in terms of improvement, including the offer of a flexible retirement, i.e. that retirement can be from 65 years of age and from 75 years of age and 80 years of age at an early age because we as a nation are getting older and we are feeling better. Also, it is said that we can take half of our pension and do half a job, which prevents the often retiremental isolation of society. In whole, it is a very positive step. The frustration in this case is that the Commission's proposal of professional assessment, which the Minister had prepared in a case that would become a sort of experimental project in order to set up an assessment of performance, will not now be realized because of opposition to Iceland's Environment Association. I'm really sorry. I have previously described that because of a very good position on the Commission on the development of the fundamental report, it is a very bad thing that Iceland's Scaring Community should not want or trust in taking full part in the work of the Committee to the end, thus affecting its content, for the benefit and benefit of its partners. The poor also saw no room for representatives in the work continued by the Ministry on the project of the bills, and I am deeply sorry. I believe that with the arrival of this group to work until the end, the result could have been even better than the one shown here. I think it is extremely urgent that such an organization, such as the Qualified Community, affects the future situation of its members. However, the older citizens' union recognized and participated in the work of the Committee to the end, thus affecting the content of the bill. This is the only major change that has occurred in this system for decades. I'm very proud that I had had a small part in it. There is also another thing to celebrate, i.e. that it is in itself the goal of identifying the resources in Iceland to take a pension. Therefore, the role of social security should be sharpened so that they will seize those who do not have other houses to protect, i.e. that those who have a fund of pension and who are able to stand on their own financial terms do so but that the emphasis is placed on those who have been mentioned. It's clear that, on its own, the bill won't do everybody. It is quite clear in my mind that e.g. The elderly group who have the desired group will need specific measures. Therefore, it is very important to identify the problem of the group in order to take the steps necessary to settle their share. You have the impression that this group is the people who live either in rented houses or in debt to their own homes, and who have high medical and pharmaceutical expenses. I think it's perfectly clear that if we're going to capture the problem of these people -- and it's exactly the same with the desperate population in the most difficult place, it can be said that these are four, five thousand people in each group - I think absolutely necessary that this group's problems are clearly diagnosed and seen how it appears so that they can be handled there. I don't think it's very complicated. If this is going to turn, for example. various changes can be made in drug costs. I remind you that about two and a half years ago there were ideas here to put drugs like that. on lower value tax level. It would immediately reduce the cost. Then there is something that is more thought - provoking than that those who struggle most that there is freedom here to import such things as agricultural products and other things, do not consider drugs and buying to be offered in the international market, and consider major regional failures if they do so. Of course, such economic care is not to be listened to. The cost of medication in this country is naturally to be taken with all the advice we have. We should not allow this to stop us if some special interest groups resent it because there is too much at stake. It is at stake to improve the standard of living and life of a group that is going to be hit very hard. All of us here are under obligation to try to make the best of it. So I'll tell you again, this bill is a very good start, and I sincerely hope that members of the committee at what time. The welfare committee endeavors to do this quickly and effectively so that the compensation here will benefit those to whom they need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u76	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion much, but I think it's a reason to discuss here just a bill of changing the social security law that is particularly attracted to the elderly. In particular, the possibility of a flexible retirement process is that of simplifying the improving system, both positive goals. However, it has to be said initially that we are now in the council and that the program has expired, the election has been announced, but the length of time has not yet been determined in addition to the Council of II to review the issues under consideration. This matter is of nature, although there has been a significant consultation with the erring person and some part of the case is a product of great service in the past, it is uncomfortable to discuss it with as short as we expect, even though we really know nothing about it as it is here at the council. It would have been good to have time to discuss this matter and study it, even though it had a considerable length of compromise. Before going into the material, I'd like to say that there are already reviews in the receiver from different organizations and groups of older citizens. Not all of them are alone. Yet, it is easy to say that most people live up to their big goals and consider them very positive to be toward a simple system and a flexible retirement. However, it is critical that certain things are not done, not to be taken into consideration. Not to be overlooked is the fact that the bill comes from work that was intended to produce quite a few more factors. Then I'd especially like to mention microbubble issues that aren't under here. So it would have been good to have time in these matters, to discuss them at the same time, for this is, of course, just one part of the job. I quote here a story. We'll make sure that the older citizen's national relationship has sent us our opinion, even though things have not been formally discussed. The money of an older citizen in Reykjavík has also given us the opinion of members of the Parliament and of the Grey Army, a group of older citizens, so we can see that there are things that would be desirable to consider in connection with this bill. But I hope that this will be a good time for you. As I mentioned earlier, it is a positive goal presented here that retirement will be more flexible. Of course, we can see that groups of older citizens have changed completely from perhaps two decades ago. Of course, it is part of the fact that people in general live longer, and there are other possibilities for maintaining health according to age. Hence, it is not unusual for people who have to give up their 70's still have full - time energy and are eager to continue working. Therefore, it is important that, along with these laws, the workforce responds to these changes, that the labour market learns how to apply its services to senior citizens. There are many who want to work longer than 70 years of age and perhaps in some sort of part - time work, even some other jobs they've done before, but there are not necessarily many opportunities, and there are very different sectors. I think there may be a great opportunity for that, for example. to use people who have been in a position of authority but can be of great benefit as experts or in any other type of work, even if at the same workplace. I already feel a certain change of attitude in the job market, and I think it's important that the work market is involved and that a flexible retirement will become a real possibility for the older citizens who want to work longer. Of course, it is also important to remember that not all have good health or work that allows them to work longer. Then, especially, I quote to people who have been working hard and who have come to a place in their lives that they simply cannot do the hard work they have done up to this point. Of course, there is a difference between having a job that does not test you physically and, for example, physically. 'cause you're a bad guy, you know? 'Cause you're a bad guy. So I think it is important to consider these matters that we remember that the circumstances of older people differ greatly from the health, field, and so forth. Then I'd like to mention it as a result of the simplicity and harmony of the system. I'll be first to admit that this system is certainly way too complicated. I agree with the goal that simplifying it is important. It's important, and we've all heard it, senators who are out of nowhere, that it causes people completely unnecessary anxiety and difficulty in forming the relief groups have different proportions. A positive step, then, is to try to simplify the system, for it is true that it is extremely inaccessible on chapters for ordinary people. That change is important, but it needs to be considered, of course. I'm saying that I haven't read the report yet, but I see a film in the back of here that an attempt has been made to distinguish different genders. That is the conclusion of this diagnosis, and I expect the committee to have time to review it well, that these changes will generally be better for women than men, and therefore equal to the status of the sexes. I think it's very positive that this analysis is submitted. It is in harmony with government policy and the last government that we run a sensory economy here and detect a fiscal structure. That's exactly what I've been calling for in a number of other government primes. I just mention a recent bill about the Icelandic loan Fund, or about a scholarship and study aid, which I remember by name. Such an analysis is not available. I think it's very positive. I just want to say that I'd like to see in all the prime plants, the directors, who are aiming for a system modification such as the two I've mentioned. What worries me, however, are the pills here. It explains how the declines are and how the changes are made in terms of pension income, money income, and employment income. The problem is that those in the lower category get 212,776 you. K. in this shallow progress, nothing changes, i.e. This is the number for those who do not live alone. If you live alone, that number is 246,902 yous. K. I must review also in the information of the older citizens' community, that older citizens and poorer citizens made the clear requirement for making collective contracts, and decided to negotiate that the lowest wage would be raised in stages to 300 you. K., that their minimum income would also be 300 yards. K. That is not an inconsistency requirement. Based on the stratosphere criteria found on the Homepage of the Ministry of Health, there are no humans holding 300 of yours. K. in monthly revenues. They are capable of meeting the prospective endpoints in the area. I want to take this opportunity at last and say that this requirement is not forgotten. This needs to go over to the welfare committee. There may not be a large group that belongs to the lowest income group, but there are still some. [[Up front.]] Now I can't hear what's at the top. A minister says here on the bench, I guess she's got those numbers straight, and she can go over them on time. But what I want to say is, there's a lot of attention to the size of this group and how we can meet the requirement we all know, about 300 of you. K. Minimum income. I think it's important that we not only look at the system change, which is important, we also have to look at the worst, as in other sectors of society. Because there were whisks here. Senators discussing whether they're equal or not, I'd like to say I'm at least. in the group of officers. I think it is important that we examine these groups specifically in connection with the bill for the work ahead, for it is not good to finish this job if we leave any group behind, how small or large it may be. I don't think it's working, Mr. President. This is what I want to say at the start of my life, but I expect us to have a lot of discussion about it here. This is a big case, and it requires a thought that I think we're all ready to go. It is reasonable to examine all its features carefully. I believe there's some pretty good evidence here, so we can do it, but then we have to see where the time is leading us and the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u77	A respectable president. I don't want to delay this meeting for long. I come up mostly because it's 1st. about this most important bill of change of social security law, where people say that there is a major system change. It's a simple one. Yet, it will not be easy for people to realize that the peripheral effects of damage that continues in the system are not light, for example. So I believe this system change that people talk about is now more in word than on a table. I also trust that the case does not occur in 2nd. I don't know when, on October 29 is to be chosen, I think the decision has been made. I don't understand how people are going to get the case over the matter because it must be discussed, and it will take at least two weeks, then it will be discussed on the committee, and this will be discussed in the council. We need to have time to see how this so-called system change works for people because I think that the word used is, i.e. Organization, it's just a word. I appreciate it after very much, as they sometimes say, in fact. Then it will be considered on the committee, and then I would learn from the council what comes out of it and so on. It's just my opinion that the matter can't be over for the rest of the council. It's all too big for that. Then I want to say, I just want to name two things that I find very strange here. First of all, the cost in the first year is 5 billion, I think I understand correctly. Yes, annual estimates for the annual change of the new system are on the chart on page 5. 34. And 2017 is about to cost us 5.3 billion. But the people who are in the lowest category, the people who really need the most, they're not supposed to get one small cent. Not a cent. We're going to turn into words of some system, pay five point points to something billions, and we're not going to make it to the lowest earners. Then we're bringing a flexible retirement age, that's very good. We're encouraging people to work more. Older people can be more efficient, and at the same time, we're going to lower the job income-free market. On page 15 of the bill says: "It was observed that, to a degree, the system change could lead to the total income of a small group of people, - all right, even though it is a small group - a small group of -- a gene pensioner, especially of those who have a job range of 105,000,3374,000 -- it is now a small, small interval - ◯geti down. This results in a much higher income-separated average of income income income and capital gains in the current system. Yes, yes, that may well be the case. Why, though, do we need to change that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u78	V.E.G. President. I come up here to express myself that this bill is being performed, which may be joyous, I don't know. It's the result of the big job of the committee that started at the beginning of the season to try to change social security. I think it's natural to realize that something needs to be done in that situation and do it well. I trust completely with the members of the committee, I was appointed as a nobility at the time, but my deputy would love to participate, so I did not share fully in the ministry. I've only looked at the bill, and I have to say, as it is, that I'm going to read it much better. There was someone who said last night that there were two men in Iceland who might know something about the social security system. I'm definitely not one of them, to be honest. But I wondered, " Is this good, and there are natural critical voices in the community, and people point out that it's not good, as it were? ' paritaprevir Bjarnadóttir said that those who have at least already had no rise. That's what I think, naturally, is very serious. For many years, we have known that the situation is bad for certain populations in the community, for older citizens, and especially for micropiercs, who live almost at hunger, and who have been fighting for many years for the better. That may be the key, we need to improve it. I'd like to quote one man named Björgvin Guðmundsson, who is a businessman and a former city agent and a postman at the State Department. He has gone to the head of an older citizen in Reykjavík, who was its chairman, and on his website, he says how he has contacted and cooperated with political parties. He says today, with permission from the President: ▪ Many seem to believe that the elderly and the poorer ones will be better if their social security bill is approved. But that's a misunderstanding. Politicians and particularly government representatives have climbed for a long time, one to two years, that their worst interests will be improved. But this isn't right. It's an illusion. This propaganda has been emblazoned everywhere, so the most unlikely men have come to believe this. Then he asks: What's the worst situation among pensioners? It's those who only have a pension from social security and no other income, are in the striped pension, as they say. Are they improving their interests? No, not about a dollar. It was confirmed at the Council last night. Secretary Eygló said that their interests would be improved in the future. Is that a source of great comfort? But what are the benefits then? Yes, the advantage of those with a pension fund is somewhat improved. Still, older citizens are canceled for basic pensions, even though older citizens have always put emphasis on keeping it. But the number of TR pensions is more impaired than in the past because of professional employment. In other words, their prosperity gets worse. I believe there is a breakdown in pension funds. We own this pension, and the state has nothing to do with cutting it either directly or indirectly. It's time to end. I think this man knows a lot more about this than I ever do. If that's what he says, then it must be examined much more and try to fix it. Now I don't know. I see at the top. A minister shakes his head, and I trust her to explain it to us why she does it. But I think we should go over this well, the case comes to my committee, the welfare committee, and we'll definitely take a good look at it. I hope we can take a good look at this, that we can send away a bill, whether it is during this council or wherever it will be, which will improve the benefit of all, and we can offer to all micro-rich and older citizens a decent quality of life. Whatever the wind, it is fundamental to me that we must offer these people a decent standard of living. I think that's all it's asking for. As a nation so rich, we should be able to do so. Something else is kind of shameful. And the situation in many of these groups today is, in fact, shameful. We are to unite in this as one, against all categories, in order to change this, so that these groups can lift their heads and walk through the streets as citizens in the community. There are far too many people outside the system or who have to land outside the park and are in terrible pain. My wish is that we solve this case just as we solved our housing bills in full cooperation and we took care of it and give it back to our own bill that ensures that no one, not one person, will land outside the park.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u79	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much for this discussion and agree with it, and I am absolutely convinced that the welfare committee will handle this project as well as she did about the housing. I don't trust any other committee to deal with this project better than the very welfare committee, which has repeatedly shown what we can do when we make our team. This arrangement, the changes presented here on older citizens' social security, is about simple, that we better understand the system, that people know their rights. It's not like today. It's about increasing the flexibility of the system, so people have even more about how they push down because of age or more poor health when they get older. On that basis, when the system changes are through, when people know what right they have and understand it, we will continue to add. It was so clear about last year, I don't think there's ever been such a percentage increase in cash as before, and it's shown how important it would have been if we'd taken care of that system change so that people would have come to know what we were actually putting so much money into the system. Here we're creating a new pension, I can also use the term basic pension because the so-called basic pensions that are always talking about are named under the social insurance laws of pension. This is where we're making a new pension. It is proper to suggest a certain degree of impairment. That is the suggestion for this committee and the committee that served there. On the other hand, we have a new set of laws, the new that half of your pension can be obtained, and it doesn't matter how much other income you have, it will not cut that part. It is in my opinion that much of the views of changes that are due to the decommissionment of job income. I've said that in the past, and I encourage the committee to be very careful with this law. We're also setting up a new arrangement, there's been a place in the pension system, but we haven't been in the social security system, that people can go to a pension earlier, before they reach a minimum in their pensional age. Now it is 67 years old. If the bill becomes legal, it will be possible for people, if they have adequate rights, to start retirement or pension from 65 years of age. True, this means that he will not be as great as he would have been if people had gone later on to pension, but it can also delay and thus have increased rights. Also, I don't doubt that the committee's comments are going to be very accurate about the payoff target of employment, and I wonder if they can be moved to the reduced percentage suggested by the committee and is exactly here on the bill, also in the bill submitted at the end of the last term and also earlier during this election period by the Group of the United States Congress, and she reflected on the interaction that, in the case of a little more complicated stage, by setting some sort of the sector's cut-off end so that the cost will be the same by adjusting it. It is also important to point out that out of the 33,000 older citizens now receiving pensions from social security, 23 people have no other fees, according to numbers that I received not long ago. Everyone above this 23 gets more. I'd also like to say here that if the proposal would be accepted that there would be no impairment of pension income, although here we are taking steps to improve the interaction between the social security and the pension funds, which are said to be two key systems, we would be primarily to consider those having the most, because this is suggested to cut off when people are brought up with 450-1,500500 you. K. ... inothercounts. I don't agree that we need to add the support there. I'd rather look to what we can do about these 23 people or what we can do when we get the system change through, when we've also improved our systems and reached the conversation. Then we will also sit over what we can do, how we can envision adjustments, and how to improve the situation. That's something we all agree on. Everyone agrees on the importance of this. The last I saw that there are some 60,000 people who receive one way or another payment through insurance clinics and about half are older citizens, 33,000 older citizens, and it really is important that we consider how we can create the best systems. This proposal is made after many years of committee work in which a major interest organization came in. It is important to keep this in mind, though it was a desire to go further in some way and to promote it in a special way, to agree on the suggestions on change, to be agreed on as practical suggestions, and to benefit the individuals who receive the payments and to the rest of the community. I hope that men will go well, as we've done in the Ministry on Special Studies, where men are looking for the future, what do we want to do when the system change is real, but in order for us to get there we must first finish this system change, secure the simplicity, make sure we understand all the system better than we do today and increase our flexibility. Then I know that we'll all agree to continue to improve the ideal pensioners.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u80	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in housing law, 44/1998, with subsequent adjustments. The objective of the changes in law is to identify the role of the government in providing public service on a stable way to the future. Governments are suggested to provide a comprehensive housing policy with the use of the General Assembly and that the role of rural society in the molding of housing policy is clear and expanded and the establishment of stakeholders through the development of a meeting. The conduct of government housing policy has also been established as a reliable guide by sharpening the main role of camp loans to work on housing policies and to be a minister to advise in the shape of housing policies, to work out information on housing markets, and to support rural development and implementation of their housing plans. The end of rural communities is key to planning and maintaining the social services and housing of those mentioned in Iceland. The contents of the bill are largely based on the proposals of the project management and the cooperation of a forward-looking housing team from 2014 on the above committees represented representatives from both countries and rural areas as well as major stakeholders. At that time, similar institutions were taken into account in the north, mainly from Norway and the ARA, Finland. First, the bill suggests changes in the law in accordance with law No. 52/2016, of general apartments, and changed the role of the camp loan fund, including because of the projects he is given in providing a stock proposal on the basis of their law, which was adopted by the General Residents at this early summer. One of the main roles of the fund must include so-called stock contributions designed to support the building of tenets for persons under certain income and property limits and to provide specific loans on social grounds for marketing failure, whether in general or in individual areas. Second, adjustments to regulations that deal with the role of the fund and the binding of separation between the projects it has had so far and the tasks it will take after the bill's validation become law. This proposal was made in close collaboration with Iceland's Secret Bank and the SEC, where they were urging that this be clear. Third, there is a sharp focus on the role of camp loan fund, rural society and the General on policy development and housing planning. The fund's role has been changed so that policies, analyses and planning are made larger under the heads and laws on the rural housing programmes and their obligation to help those who have difficulty making housing are clear. It is suggested that local housing committees be removed, and it has certainly not been respected, but the tasks of the rural community will be given a government which, in its approved position, can, be entrusted to other members of the community. It is suggested that the legislation be added to a new chapter that specifically deals with housing and housing policies, which include: To find a new arrangement dealing with the arrangement for housing that should be held every two years and the obligation of a minister to submit a Senate resolution of housing policies to ensure the presence of the General Assembly. Fourth, adjustments are made to the sources the fund has to lend to individuals to buy property for its own use. The fund is now authorized to provide loans to buy on property that are below certain markets, as well as a limit to the amount of loans it is permitted to make, regardless of its location. The change suggested here is that in order for the funds to be allowed to lend individuals to purchase property, borrowers should prove that they are not borrowing acceptable interest in a loan agency for the location of property or for other reasons. However, the current maximum loans and maximum value of real estate will remain unchanged. Finally, adjustments are made in terms of the payment problem of creditors and decapitations, matters that are of great importance to improve the management of the fund and to reduce the risk of the state's funds. A respectable president. The bill is an important continuation of the law that was accepted in spring, especially the law on general apartments. The bill is also a continuation of the laws that were agreed on in 2012 that significantly changed the financial status of the fund and limited its substantial loans and the consequences it has had. I also believe that careful analysis, planning and clear housing policies are important in ensuring national housing security. We've already suggested what I'd like to say, for example, that today we were introducing a new panel, in which we take together the information available on housing, to include in this council a discussion of how we want to conduct housing here, this fundamental right of people, and what vision we have. I really hope that the bill will work well at the council and that we may once again be able to say the final result of the work being given to the project on the future premises when this government began. A number of cases have entered the Parliament, which has been based on that work, as well as on the agreement reached with the labour market partners. So I believe that we are doing exactly this, finding the role of the government in the service of public service in the public service of a stable facility to the future, where we look at what the North countries have done and build on it. So I allow myself to suggest to a respectable president that the bill will be after this discussion referred to the highest level. The welfare committee and to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u81	Mr. President. The evidence of changing the role of an apartment loan may include the following: that the fund has little to do with it, that it really does not play a role in the current law of law. I wondered what I learned in my speech about social security. To this council, there are a number of great, urgent tasks. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there's anything wrong with this change. Why not take a closer look at these matters at a new assembly after the election? We got a great presentation from the highest. Minister for some time ago, the proposals for housing matters. It was originally assumed in that proposals, I reiterate that the role of the camp loans would be changed, but that we will be looking at some new official housing company and a new role so that we will not deliver the mortgage only to the bank, especially while the bank arrangements in this country have not been revised, which I really believe is necessary. I think I've got a way of getting along with a couple of other people. Councilmen of the highest order. Ministers who feel that it is very important to revise the banking system, that we consider to form an institution of a community bank. It hasn't been done. We know all about the point of view. Councilmen and the highest. Minister of the Independence Party to the idea, which, of course, is a team of cooperaters. Minister. So I do not realize that we are actually putting down an apartment loan fund in the present form and leaving it with a very limited social role, and that it is not intended to follow the ideas about public housing society that would take over the role of the fund in some way and that some ideas about the community role of the bank have not been addressed. So I ask the highest. Minister: These are changes, but is there anything that encourages this to be done? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u82	A respectable president. The reasons why I have not come in earlier with suggestions for the future role of the camp loan fund are a few. First, the big project for us at the Ministry of Health has been to deal with the fund's business problems. It's been through. I stressed this to the management of the fund when she took up the assignment that we would stop putting money from a money fund into the fund. But we've laid, I think, about one new land hospital to raise the money of the fund, or about 50 billion in recent years, not during this ideal period, but after the collapse of the bank. This has been accomplished. The sea has returned the rest. It is obvious, however, that we will not be able to solve the fundamental problem of the fund that turns to his financing. The sea cannot pay for the letters he used to finance himself. Thus, the bill contains provisions to minimize the concern of paying off the funds. Since then, there has also been a marked change during this period in the mortgage market. The changes towards the Substitution Fund are primarily due to the changes in law made in 2012, where the loans were severely limited. It is unchanged according to the bill and because a large part of the banking system has returned to its community property, i.e. It belongs to the State, so we can be very much concerned with how to build up our new financial system. Me and what. A senator certainly agrees on the importance of increasing his social thinking in the banking system, but in recent months the pension fund to which we are direct owners has been taking on an ever larger part of the housing market. [[The president calls.]] It's gonna make a big difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u83	Mr. President. True, loans were limited during the last terms, but we have seen continued to do so. The apartment loan fund has not been authorized to lend disloyal loans. While discussed, at least 6 percent of the subjects have not been reduced. by members of the council of the left green, if it is not reasonable to allow the apartment loans to lend on lower interest. And when pension funds offer loans at better interest rates, the loans normally choose such a loan. I welcome the highest. Minister says, we agree that the community role of the banking system needs to be revised. I care about that. We haven't done that yet. And while the banks are somehow owned by the government, I doubt that the public will experience a real influence on how the banks are controlled. Of course, there is a natural difference between what we call a community bank and what we call a traditional bank owned by the State, which is mainly driven by interest in money, and does not have other viewpoints that can be guided by environmental, social, or social goals. That's why I repeat my question. V.E.G. A minister points to the position of the fund, it is known to us all, and it has been discussed here repeatedly. But is there any need to complete this law on the short remaining time of this council when we know that the financial system has not been examined from the viewpoints that have been discussed? We know that there is really some uncertainty ahead of us, for example. which government here we are taking over after the election, whether this review will take place at the end of the election or whether banks will be sold only to the highest bidders, and we have come up with the whole loan market, apart from these very limited sources, to banks in the market, which are primarily to consider interest purposes. So I'm gonna ask you again, is there something to finish this matter? Does that make any difference, even if this is resumed in the course of November or December? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u84	A respectable president. In terms of this bill, I think it is right to know what the vision is about the projects I have been given as social and housing minister and, as well as, that the fund has entered such a position, often by difficult decisions, decisions that have taken care of for all concerned - to set here for the future. That's where we've watched the other states of the North. That's where we've watched what's been going on at the mortgage market. We're looking at the role of our rural society, the importance of planning, a role of great importance to be sharpened, to conform with the laws of general apartments, and to add to the terms of financial resources for the financial problems of borrowing and writing. However, there are also primes in the council that are going to finish, such as. The bill on real estate loans, which I would like to encourage the senators to study very carefully and with the legal nature of it, because it's where we're setting general loan guidelines. The majority of the financial systems we have, whether we're talking about the banks, the savings, the apartment loans, or the pension fund, have become a community property. We're setting the rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u85	But not community business.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u86	It is natural for us to do so while doing so. We are making sure that those who feel that they cannot get what they are looking for in the market will be able to consult an apartment loan fund. Regarding the decisions made, and it was presented as a possibility, like insurance and so forth, we had to check on unscrupulous loans. [[The president calls.]] But the conclusion was, and I've tried to follow it, that by doing so, we were still adding to the risks of government funds and possibly leading to an increase in money from a trust fund to support our own funds. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd rather see that money go into development on a new network of lavender access systems and extra support, such as housing improvements, and generally other aspects of the welfare system than sponsoring social security numbers at the apartment loans. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-08-149.u87	A respectable president. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to legalize the criminal treatment laws, No. 88/2008, with subsequent changes, on conditions for XI application procedures. section. The committee has discussed the matter and has been Bryndís by the local district attorney Brosí Helgadóttir, Sigríður J. Friðjónsdóttir of the State Attorney Generals, Ólafur Þór Hauksson, District Attorney Stefán A. Sveinsson and Reimar Pétursson from Iceland's Legal Society, Helga Þórisdóttir and Alma Tryggvadóttir from Peronótir and Skúli Magnússon Magnús Magnúsarsson of Iceland. Then the committee had a telephone meeting with the Halla of Bergþóra Björnsdóttir from Iceland's police chief of police. In addition, there was a meeting with a board of administrations and monitoring committees and Internal Affairs Ministers. There were reports from the district attorney, district attorney, Iceland's attorney-slocation, U.S. Marshal's Association, Iceland's Chief of Police Association, and the Board of Overseers. The objective of the bill is to clarify and narrow down the conditions required to justify the application of the guidelines required for 81rd. and 1st. 82. g. Laws on Prosecution, No. 88/2008. These actions are in particular listening and recording of phone calls and will be discussed only on wires, for simplicity. With the bill, the changes made in the implementation of the controversial process are mostly 2kress. The bill that suggests that when a judge fights for telecommunications, he orders a lawyer who will protect the interests of the listener. Finally, a change to 85th degree is proposed. The law that deals with the treatment and destruction of information obtained by requested actions. In accordance with local legislation, a wiretap can be used in case of an investigation involving a five-year prison offense or if there is a state of public interest or personal interest requiring it. It has been stated that the resource has been abused as the prosecution had free assessments of what constitutes public or private interest. Courts have virtually never withheld a call for wire shutting. At meetings, representatives of Iceland's Court Society and State Attorney noted, however, that a high percentage of approved prosecutions by the courts on authority to telecommunications was not without denouncement, as was the case elsewhere in the North countries. With this bill, there is a change that for telecommunications to be used, research needs to be directed to a six-year prison offense and a state of public or private interest needs to be demanded. Although the required penalty for fractures is reduced by about two years, there is, in fact, a condition for the application of wiretaps, where the use of the resource will no longer be justified because of violations with lower penalty frames with the public or private interests alone. In the second paragraph of paragraph 1, paragraph 2. The bill, which will be 2nd. 83rd. The handling of criminal matters is considered absolute by the law of general penal law, No. 19/190, which describes fragments that can be used for study, although the conditions for breaking six years of imprisonment are not met and rich interests are not met. It's a 175. a on planned fracture activity, 206. g. About prostitution, 210. gr. About porn, 210s. a 210. g. ................. 226. ... adisturbanceof liberation, 1 mg. 232nd par. for fractures against the restraining device 233. gr. the threat of committing a criminal act and 264nd par. a about taking bribes at owners or employees of companies and about their payoffs. The district attorney pointed out in his review and at a meeting of the Committee that this list needs to be added to the 109st. a general penal law to bear bribes to a government employee. In support of this, the recommendations by OECD and GRECO refer to the government of the United States. The committee agrees with the indication and suggests that the preceding article will be added to the list of 1st. The committee doesn't think it's a cause of 210. a legal law on pornography, which is primarily about the prohibition on the distribution of pornography, is listed among the rules of violations that are considered to be serious enough to justify the application of a wiretap regardless of whether its general conditions are met. The committee suggests 210. g. Should be removed from the list at Article 1. The bill, but the entitles it to 210rd. a 210. g. b, dealing with child pornography. With 2 st. The bill suggests that a judge who has received a warrant for telecommunication will be appointed to an attorney who will protect the interests of the person to whom the telecommunications are directed. The lawyer should sign a word that he will keep silent about all that he finds out about the dissertation of the profession, including those for whom he takes interest. A lawyer has the right to access the evidence and has the right to comment after studying it. On behalf of the European Court of Justice Association, it was noted that only in the bill's comments would it be stated that the attorney's interests are involved in charges against judges to the Supreme Court. This would have to be shown in the text itself. The committee agrees with this indication and suggests a change in this situation. At the same time, the judges'Society pointed out that it was unclear what to do with the approval of a lawyer in the event of such charges. To respond to this point, the committee suggests that in 2 st. The bill, which will be 2nd. Ninety-four. the treatment of criminal cases should be referred to in Article 38. The rest of the law, but not just 1st and 3rd. hers. Some of the clients who sent in envelopes and attended a hearing at the Committee expressed concern about this planned recruitment process for telecommunications. The application of the alternative would be less sure, the better. The outcome would be useless if the use of the drug was checked out, and in fact, the damage would be even greater if it was asked to the point of disposal, as this would give the subject a head start on those who tested his alleged offense and could corrupt the investigation in various ways. On the contrary, it was noted that lawyers are government officials and that they should be trusted as well as other servants of the legal state, such as judges and accusers, in order to maintain legal discretion. The committee considers it necessary to ensure that, as little as possible, an unwanted information flow is available. This suggests that it is desirable for a lawyer who does this interest - care work generally to fail in the field ministry. According to the wording of the law, a judge arranges to appoint a lawyer for the job. The committee feels that it is important that the choice of an attorney will not be automatically accepted. Rather, it will allow judges to allow room to select a lawyer whose trust he considers to be the exception of a survey of the possible relationship between the attorney with the defendant or others who have a particular interest in the case. In the 3rd. The bill is presented with a change to 85th par. Act on the treatment of criminal cases that discuss how to handle information obtained through telecommunications. According to current legislation, the information should be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed, as this has not been passed on to the court. It has been stated that on this occasion only the prosecution is left to determine whether information is relevant in a criminal case, and thus there is a real risk that data that might be reputed to the defendant will be destroyed. Thus, in the case of Natunen v. Finland from March 31, 2009, the European Court of Human Rights concluded that the destruction of telecommunication was directed against the defendant's law against Article 6. The European Convention on just treatments, in which the defendant and his defense failed to determine whether the evidence could have benefited from a criminal defense. In order to handle this, the change to a case is proposed on the basis of a study, and no data about it must be removed until the final judgment is passed. The committee's meetings have established a view that the article is too definitive in this regard and that data disposal should be allowed when it is evidently meaningless. It was noted, however, that such a law would not really change according to current legislation, so the prosecution had once again made a decision as to when the evidence would clearly be considered meaningless. The committee agrees with the latter and does not suggest a change in this factor. Then came the review of Peritoneal Protection and the meeting of the Committee with representatives of the Agency proposal to add Article 1 of Article 3. the bill that data should always be deleted when the study was not a cause. The Commission agrees that data should always be destroyed in the absence of post-study criminal charges. However, the committee believes that this obligation is already responsible for the requirement, so it does not feel that the need for change is needed in this regard. In paragraph 3, paragraph 3. it is suggested that the district attorney monitors the destruction of data in the article and establish rules on how it should be conducted and how to ensure that a follow-up of the individual or who has had access to information before it was destroyed. Is this a response to a lot of criticism that has recently been carried out by the wire shutters, including some of which have been published by the U.S.A. Please note that in order to form a conversation between the defendants and their defenders, researchers could not have left their trails. At a meeting of representatives from the Internal Affairs Department, this paragraph was proposed to include an added requirement that the district attorney submit a yearly report on the implementation of the surveillance programme and the application of the figures set out at 80,◯82. ... thesexpecting of criminal treatment. Such a report would include the number of cases, the number of individuals involved, the number of judicial decisions, the type of action and the duration of the procedure. Such a report should be available on a U.S. district attorney's Web site, and the General may call a U.S. district attorney for a meeting to discuss the report. The committee agrees with this proposal and suggests an appropriate change. In discussions with this bill in a council hall, it was concluded that in the light of history, the wire wires have been abused for political purposes, democratic surveillance is needed for those who have carried out their wires. It would be important for any political representatives to arrange for this sort of surveillance and to arrive there, for example, in the case of the General Assembly. by selecting representatives from their ranks, from government and government. In its review of this case, the changes the bill calls for, but stated that the Committee considers it necessary to also investigate whether and how to maintain and monitor the use of police on the resources mentioned at 80,◯82. par. the treatment of criminal matters that are most selective and how to link such with the General Assembly. Guides the Commission and monitoring committee in their review of preliminary regulations to guide these views. A general and educational committee specifically discussed this proposal and agrees with it with minor changes in wording. In view of the above, the committee suggests that the bill will be approved by a change that I leave to the audience to read in a committee program to find out what, in the text itself. Hv. Councilmen Steingrímsson Steingmursson and Haraldur Einar Einarsson were away at the hearing. In view of this, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, 2nd vice president, Þórisson Jórisson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Mlæfjörn Helgi Gunnarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Þorvarðardóttir Þólótttir Þöfótur, and Vilmurmurm Árnason.
