ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-100.u1	A respectable president. I would like to start by thanking the welfare committee for a great deal of good cooperation and a lot of work in changing the law on housing communities. I also want to use this opportunity to thank the many stakeholders involved in the processing of the bill. This bill is a response to experience with the problems of a number of housing partners working in Iceland following the collapse. This is a reaction to how we can strengthen their position, to meet different viewpoints, to farmers, and to their partners themselves. We have learned much from what has happened in recent years. In my mind, housing partners are one of the main stakeholders under a powerful and active housing market. These changes will lead to my opinion that housing partners will be even more powerful than they have been and we will see hundreds of apartments built in this framework following the approved bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-100.u2	V.E.G. President. We vote for a bill to legalize the law of housing partners. The primary objective of this bill is to make it easier for housing partners to work in Iceland according to the government's objective that citizens live in housing security and have a real choice for farm shapes, so that individuals can increasingly choose between farm shapes. In addition, the bill's objective is to increase the protection of homeholders and to further explain their legal status, other members, as well as their own housing partners. The bill also aims to promote sustainable development in such partners at the same time as it seeks to improve their multiplicity by assigning them their own authority on a number of factors that could affect their business in their approved business rather than on the strictly legal basis. All of them. The welfare committee is taking care of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-100.u3	V.E.G. President. I say here, on behalf of what? Commission and monitoring committee, for committee visits to the 3rd Environment. with a change in bill proposal to correct the changing of Iceland's national flag and national shielding laws, No. 34/194, with subsequent changes (using the flag at the launch of goods and services). You can find the nominee on the roof. 1168, No. 156. The committee has discussed the matter again after the second issue. to meet Ágústsson Geir Augustssson of the Ministry of Presidency and The Björg of Þórðardóttir from the Society of Industrialism. In the treatment of the case, there were indications that led to a review of the case. The tips aim to ensure that the flag is used for markings, to enable consumers to provide clear and transparent information on origins and not to limit too much production to be able to handle the source. The Commission agrees with the importance of this and suggests some changes in the language in order to enhance the clarity and transparency of the flag for consumers. The Commission suggests that rather than aim at being considered Icelandic, it is produced here in a country from a domestic source of raw materials that it becomes available, considering that it is produced in part or in part from domestic raw materials, because it has received adequate work on the region. This requirement requires, in effect, an adequate part of the country's worth increase of goods. That condition is also in accordance with the rules for the assessment of products origin. The Commission concluded that in the case of agrienvironment schemes produced in Iceland, consumers increasingly require their origin in meaning. Thus consumers may be misled to believe that exported agricultural products, e.g. Meat, milk, and vegetables bear the Icelandic flag. The committee agrees with the need to deal with this and suggests an additional law that includes the exception, i.e. not to be considered Icelandic if it is produced from imported raw materials that are the characteristic part of the product and that are physically similar to farm products, including the products of farm fish grown here, a product produced on land on farms, a gardening station or gardening plant, or the use stocks of the sea caught by Icelandic ships within Icelandic fish trades. The Commission also agrees on the view that a product designed in Iceland needs to be distinguished by whether it is manufactured here or abroad. The committee agrees that although both can be marked with the flag, it is very important that the flag at the same time always appears in the sense of goods in which country it is produced. The committee feels that this is the result of providing normal information to consumers about the product. The Commission also suggests that a minister will be committed to further implementing a Regulation as to what is considered adequate development, what constitutes a characteristic of the products and the physical substance and the definition of the productive land. It can be said, a respectable president, when we draw this up, that these views have always been on the subject for its treatment, and that this is to the limit of meeting the requirements of consumers and employment with the origin of products when it comes to the use of the flag, especially when it comes to agricultural products, marine and Icelandic vegetables, as well as to make clear the design of the land. The committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes contained in a committee program and that I refer to the changes I'm not going to read here. The following was the case. Councilmen absent: Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Arnardóttir Lára Eagledótir, and Akni Páll the Árnason of Aarna. Under the committee's opinion of publications at the General Assembly on April 12, 2016. Councilmen: Jónasson's count, president of the century Government and observation committee, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Hjörvar, and Höskuldur the son of Þórhallsson.
