ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u1	There are: Social and Housing Ministers and Environment and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u2	A respectable president. Now, the inquiry is not relevant to the Minister of Social Affairs and Housing, but as associate minister of the Northlands. I don't think it's often that the national co-work minister is asked questions in question class. I think there's a good reason to have words at the top. Minister who responds in the power of this office this time because of new illegal legislation in Denmark. It's only a matter of controversial legislation. I would say that it is precarious based on all sorts of opinions about human rights and humanity that we would like to adopt, especially as a northern nation. The legislation assumes that the property of refugees and refugees can be confiscated, and it contains many other laws that are very inhuman from my standpoint and that of many others. I think it's a road to a certain baseline Northland community service with it. So I want to ask the highest. Minister how she sees this law in Dana's life. Of course, we respect the national and national rights of self - determination to establish our own laws, but we northern nations have repeatedly defined us as one body based on values and attitudes toward human rights. That's why we have this office, the head of staff of the Northlands. The Ministers of Collaboration, the Ministers of the United States, and we have a coalition in the form of the Northern Council. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it has expressed objections to these Dana legislations and if it has not done so, whether it intends to do so and whether it feels that it is the right thing for me to believe that there are some baseline values that have come here to unite the northern nations. That is where I talk about the attitude toward human rights and about the kind of humanity that we are trying to develop.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u3	A respectable president. Thank you for this inquiry. The senator's words are true. I think this is the first time I've ever been asked a question as a fellow minister of the northern countries. The situation in Europe as it has been in recent months is something we are deeply concerned about. The news that has been received since Denmark is something that is truly reason to discuss here and how people have been responding to this assignment. What we have heard most in the media around here is just about to take money from the inmates. However, there is another matter that I would also like to mention that I am deeply concerned about, but there are limitations on family unity and the effects it can have on the inmates who receive the status of refugees and their chances of adjusting in Denmark or in another country where they get asylum. We have seen that it is difficult for an individual to start a new life if he is deeply concerned about the lives of his family. We have thus been thinking about what we can do to facilitate family unity in Iceland. There is a meeting next week in Finland, including will consider how we can expand and improve cooperation with the northern countries, which are involved in helping refugees and immigrants in general to enter the norse community. As far as I can see, that proposal is based on exactly the Norwegian values mentioned by the senator, but I certainly believe this case will be discussed at that meeting as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u4	A respectable president. I hope to the highest. Ministers present the clear protests of Iceland, and hopefully the government that it deals with that thought. I think northern society is most likely a matter of sharing values, and we share attitudes and emphasis on human rights in this cooperation. We are democracies. These are open societies. I think it's to confiscate refugees' property completely contrary to these values and as much as the highest. A minister mentions the family regulations, much more rigid arrangements for family unity. I'll tell you right here, our deputy in the Northern Union, why. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall has presented a clear stand for the future of Birts against these legislation in cooperation with groups in the Northern Council. [[The president calls.]] There are two groups that are our sisters, they are now the same sisters, and they are sisters of the Agency. Venstre supports this, but Radikale Venstre's been on his feet.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u5	A respectable president. I once again thank the senator for the encouragement. It's as if I've given a tremendous task, as indicated by the proposal that is being proposed by the Norwegian Minister. It shows that this is not something we should assume to be just happening right now, but, as I have said repeatedly, we are looking at a changed world picture, a changed reality. This is what they're discussing at European level. This is being discussed within the Norwegian Ministerial Committee and I firmly assume that, of course, members of the Parliament will discuss this, not only the reactions we see now in Denmark but also in other countries and how it will be best to process them. This will be done on the basis of the emphasis the senator here referred to, on the basis of what has characterized our Norwegian communities, normological values, on the basis of respect for human rights, and on how we can support each individual who comes to us and those who live in our society in the best possible way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u6	A respectable president. I'd like for this occasion to agree with the last thing. A senator and an illuminator of the measures taken in Denmark, and in particular a concern with the Northland co-work minister of the state of which the Norwegian passport partnership, the cooperation of the borderless North countries, has arrived in the year 2016. I don't know. I'm here to ask the highest questions. Minister of affairs, housing matters in Iceland, and measures in them. Sadly, though, the remainder of this terms has not been so much mixed up in them and is now at the end of it, it should be delighted that they have reached the highest level of bills in this country. Minister for action on these topics. There are positive things to support my view. However, it is a concern that what has been fine in housing, large and strong communities such as the National Social Services and Social Services in Reykjavík, the people at a housing market, who have been able to provide resources for thousands of people who have needed safe housing, are concerned about the issues and the premieres. Social Services strongly opposes the general bill because there is a much greater need for funding from the European Commission, but social institutions call attention to the time to recruit stock loans, but they don't expect any subsidies this year. They are particularly concerned that stocks may not be funded this year and that they will not make loans, and that this will result in a hole between the old and new system, an increase in the present year's problem. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Minister if she intends to take some action for this reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for the query. In terms of the individual organizations mentioned in the inquiry, it is particularly important to them in the primary projections of the general apartments where it is certain that these communities will not have to change their activities in any way. They can continue to work in either part - time or as an automaton, but if they choose, they can continue to work in a new arrangement, a general residence society, with the possibility of taking along the funding they have obtained at 3.5% into these new communities. However, they can continue to function as they have so far. The societal community is the society that has, like, what has. A senator knows, be in the greatest project of social housing ever since a collapse. For a while, I think it was the only one in Reykjavík who built a house. I am absolutely convinced that when the company examines the added support of the founding process, where we're talking about 18% standard payment into the club plus 12% co-finances that are also required by their rural communities, and after that, in turn, they're going to make a substantial contribution. Homes have not increased their apartments but have plans to do so. The same is true, the law turns to the fact that the company can continue to operate, and we are working hard at the Ministry to ensure that as soon as the U.S. Council is finished, we can go to advertise for sponsorship. I have encouraged my rural society to prepare for this, since the Council has delivered 1.5 billion for this year's provision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u8	A respectable president. It's the highest. Minister to say that the Board of Social Services merely misunderstands the bill? Then I'm concerned because, as the Minister says, the Social Services is among the few people who have worked in social facilities in recent years. She has made new resources and has built with great variety. I'm asking the minister: Is this new arrangement worse for the student camp than it was already? Then I'd like to ask the Minister for Social Relations. Is it not to the minister's schedule, if not provided solids this year, to put aside contributions to subsidize growth, such as was in the earlier system, so that in the present year there is no greater problem because neither systems work, nor are the old, nor are the new ones being activated? Enough is the problem, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u9	A respectable president. I emphasize that the bill is now being treated by the welfare committee. The management committee is reviewing the comments that have been received on the subject, and of course they will be considered as much as possible. As I have stressed, this contribution is related to collective agreements and a tremendous amount of consultation has been made since everyone had to contribute something and give something left to work together on the bill. What I would like to mention, however, in particular about the apartment loan fund and the formalities the fund has given is that we will meet with him on Monday and review the promises made by the fund. I expect that conclusion to come, so we can make sure that these communities do not have to worry about the new system, any more than any other organization or those who are interested in increasing the number of apartments and supporting the least. We're adding much support, and we're going to grow in the next four years by 2,300 apartments when it comes to the new social network and hopefully more when we look further into the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u10	A respectable president. I agree with the members of Congress who have expressed their hatred for more recent legislation at the Danish Parliament, which is least said to be a tragic conclusion. But I would like to direct a question to the highest. The social and housing minister for the United Nations Children's Fund, published last week and presented striking results. 6,100 children aged one to 15 years suffer a physical shortage in this country, of which less than 1,600 children suffer a serious shortage. The most important factors are parental education, parents'job involvement, and housing status. I'd like that at the highest. Minister, who has already responded to the results of the report by saying that they will strengthen her in their own knowledge of the basics in the housing and in their actions which are not clear whether the agreement will remain as compared to the data received through the bills, that she will further explain her actions and responses to the results of the UNICEF report and exactly what her actions will be in behalf of children suffering from a material shortage in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir for this inquiry. I think if anything happens. A senator would be interested in why we discussed this in detail, but we can do so at this brief, unprepared time of inquiry. I would like to use the opportunity to thank the United Nations Children's Fund especially for this initiative, but first of all, I would like to point out that what the Children's Fund published here is in the evidence that has been performed in cooperation with the Ministry and that has been published in one or another in the so - called sociology that had been introduced in the past and the initiative of a former senator and Minister of the Guðbjartur Son of Hannesson. The effects of the crisis are very clear. On the one hand, statistics are being compared at the beginning of 2009 and then at the beginning of 2014, respectively, over a five - year period. We see the effects of the crisis on our children very clearly. What is very clear, by digging a little deeper, is that even though we have usually seen that these are children of single parents, the situation is very important, and then the position that the person is in the rent due to limited income is very important. As a result, the tenet market is a fundamental factor in strengthening the social tenant pool system that we are doing with a bill on the general apartments where we greatly increase the donations so that more apartments can be built. Then there are the changes we are making in our housing repairs. Inside these are also growing funds for the rural communities to enter the special mortgages that are left with them in order to be supportive of those who especially need it. [[The president calls.]] These are the actions I have pointed out, but in addition to this, we hope to soon bring in a new family policy that has been closely cooperated with various free organizations, which are further measures to meet these children.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u12	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for her diagnosis of the United Nations Children's Fund report in Iceland. I would have liked to have more clear answers from the top. Minister for immediate action in behalf of children suffering a material shortage in Iceland. They can't wait. We do not want children who live in want to wait quietly for what politicians decide to do in their behalf, to wait for Congress proposals, to wait for the development of bills that are familiar with committees. I would like to receive a clearer answer when it comes to immediate action in behalf of children.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u13	Thank you. A senator once again. I understand that she makes the question that way. I have stressed these big issues, and I want to use this opportunity to encourage the council to work as fast and as hard as possible. As for the reaction right now, I expect in the next few days to sign a trial project called TINA that is a cooperation project between us and Reykjavíkurburg to help young single parents in a direct way to self - help, how we can be more supportive with these families, especially the children, by helping their parents. This is in harmony with what experts have suggested for us. This will be a two - year assignment, and hopefully it will be sufficient for us to expand it even more and to help others in this group. I hid it especially at my time when I reassigned it - and then I negotiated that the Habitat could better identify exactly who these are. [[The president calls.]] However, the living room has pointed out that it is difficult because there are few among them who are better off. Still, we want to know precisely who they are so that we can really help them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Social and housing minister for collaborative planning for prevention of various forms of violence. First, I'd like to ask a question about sexual, mental, and physical violence, which was the cooperation of the Ministry of State, Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Health, and was conducted in 2012 ◯2015. In 2012, the Enlightenment was rooted in the legislation of Iceland and the government on the European Council's Convention on Prevention of Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse of Children, approved in 2007. I got to know this assignment while I was headmistress and watched its progress, thinking that it was a very useful and useful job, including the work that I was doing there. with a variety of educational material, such as the photos get yes and stand with you. This project was formally completed last year, or about a year ago. I want to know what's going to happen. What's the rest? At the same time, I would like to ask about the conduct of national formal consultations in order to improve the cooperation and handling of matters related to violence and its consequences in the community. That project is also based on the work of the social and housing minister, the minister of education and culture, and the Minister of state who was signed for more than a year. What is the cooperation of social services, child welfare, education and health systems, police and prosecution under the premeditation of the three schools? What will be the subject of the discussion? What subjects are put first?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u15	A respectable president. When the State Secretary of State and Education project ended, the three ministers came to it, I, the Minister of State, and the Minister of Education, were very important to the fact that we were about to continue working against child abuse. We also need to realize that violence witnessed or experienced by children can be far more extensive. This has been evident in the experimental work we have done and are involved in domestic violence, children, and the effects that make children aware of such violence. We signed a new declaration or declaration of national agreement against violence, which, of course, puts much emphasis on our children. We have felt very important that we will continue to carry on with the work that was under the awareness, and I want to give special attention to the local doll show the neighborhood kids that I signed a contract in December to continue where students are taught how to be violent against children and how to handle child abuse. We have also been thinking of how we can promote child - welfare committees and children's clinics in caring for our assignments. There was also room for it after children's house went to a new home, and we could ensure extra money for the business to consider expanding it so that services could also be provided to children who have been exposed to physical violence, severe physical violence, and support for parents. Then it is a pleasure to relate that today, just now at 11 o'clock, it is beginning a work meeting in which some 100 people have been announced to be working on the National Convention. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There, the government is convening with all those involved in this project and implementing the first action program against violence in Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. The questions that come from me, they may be working with them later in this meeting, but I still want to give it a try. I want to know more about what your priorities are and what your subjects are. What should be made out of our discussion? Is the procedure being carried out? Are there ways in which we can work out individual and family needs? Or is there a second subject? Is everything taken at once, or is something put first? Is working with your children or violence in close relationships, or is the Internet working in some particular order, or is working in all areas at the same time? [[The president calls.]] I've also wondered how we, the lawgiver, will be able to observe.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u17	A respectable president. Thank you again. You're right, I couldn't quite answer the first question. The very point of this cooperation is the emphasis on cooperation. This has been demonstrated in the pioneers'work, e.g. The new practice of domestic violence in Southnes, which has been introduced, and the new work produced by the Southland police has been initiating violence against disabled people, and in the Children's House itself, how important cooperation between those involved in these matters is. It must be a partnership between different institutions and services, including a free partner organisation, and a cooperation and agreement to act on early reactions to violence and cooperation to promote authority and awareness in the field of action against violence in Icelandic society. This afternoon's meeting will be done with the three o'clockwaffin, as it is called, i.e. Awakening, reaction, and authority. What has to do with our welfare services is welfare services, counselling and long-term support for those who can resist and have resources for their workers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] When I've been discussing this with my colleagues on a global level, I simply find that we're here for a pioneer job, we're doing something that hasn't been won before. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then it's so important that there are so many people who are involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u18	V.E.G. President. On October 30, 2013, I recommended as a 1st member for a synonym that was finally adopted May 12, 2014, with 58 joint votes. It was an arrangement for reevaluation of laws and regulations in terms of molds and their damages. The motion said so, with the permission of the president: The Council concludes to hide the Environment and Resource Minister to appoint a collective review of the laws and rules of construction in relation to mold molds and the damage they can cause. The staff will submit their report with their results and proposals for July 1, 2014, as the minister is officially reporting. A respectable president. It is most recently reported that the then minister responded quickly and immediately appointed a 10th - year - old group of eight people, who also received a lawyer to write a report on the legal status of those who are injured by molds. It's the best report, and nothing but good about it. The proposal was broadly supported, as I am saying, and the report is very well prepared, there are many suggestions for reforming the laws and suggestions for changing regulations. Following the report published in November 2014, I would like to ask the highest. A minister, and the question may be very simple: What has been done since this fine report? Who's winning and what? Is the Minister and his Ministry being working on a change in law and regulations, as any suggestions given by the staff? A respectable president. We have recently been reminded that mold has surfaced in several public buildings, but molds have not been talked much into in many homes in the country that cause health and financial loss. [[The president calls.]] This is a very important issue, as it was obviously revealed by the approval of the Generals, and now I simply ask: What has been done?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller for the inquiry. You can sense that construction issues and adjustments are high in your people, and that is not unusual. That's the issue with young people. It is necessary for a structure to be practical, and that, at the same time, we have to be careful. The darkness is a serious problem, and I agree with it. A senator to the report we received was very good. I remember speaking to the senator about whether we should share in the seminary, lunch, or anything else, in order to discuss this matter, but unfortunately it was not. We've been introducing this report and presenting it, sending it to the Ministry and to the institutions, and we've asked to get their opinion or report from them. Of course, within my office, the Environment and Resource Ministry, we've been looking at the general construction issues, building regulations, and other aspects of this link, and especially the defects caused by mold. Of course, these matters can always be sharpened, and I would very much like to be in good cooperation with the senator because I've sensed them here on my project at the council that it's his heart to try to stop mold from living and that I agree with them. We also need to promote the education of various professionals, which has been directed to the Ministry of Education. This aspect also requires more work. [[The president calls.]] It's a matter that I think we're totally involved in trying to make a success of port.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u20	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. But I must still be honest and say that I would have liked to hear more, but of course I respect that this is an unsubstantiated inquiry, perhaps I would just ask for a written answer. But it seemed to me that there was not much work to be done with the suggestions presented in the report. There are, as I told the above, proposals for changing the law and the Ministry must employ them and bring them here, and a minister can promote changes in a building order where necessary. And I say it without hesitation, I've noticed a minister's keen interest in this case. She spoke with me as soon as the report arrived. One factor involves prevention, which is very important to prevent mold. We've seen reports of recent construction projects at the BUGL, lost by molds and contractors, and no one is responsible. The other factor that is equally important is the terms of bail. The Guðný Bearsddótttir wrote a report on bail in the report and compared Norway, Denmark, and Sweden. There is also something very important to wear because it is one thing to lose health because of mold. [[The president calls.]] The other factor is the economic damage that will follow, and we need to work on it as well. [[The president calls.]] It's a question of which Minister is working on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u21	A respectable president. I can frankly admit that we may have further emphasized the need to review the building order to find a flat surface here to build smaller apartments so that young people can get started. Among other things, we have been guided by the size of 3 times 25 to try to build a 25 - square - foot [25 square m] apartment that does not cost more than 25% of the people's provisions, whether they rent or buy, and so on. I admit I've been rather busy with it. However, by reevaluating the building principle now in the narrative process to February 10, we are trying to enhance flexibility and try to reduce direct control measures in the matter of dressing and having a vision between different age groups. Of course, storing needs to be careful. That's right. But this can naturally increase the cost of building. [[The president calls.]] You have to realize that. So now I'm writing a report on a doctor, Guðmundur Hannesson, who is also considered one of the first architects here or a cartelist. He had his formula that he had taught the Icelanders how to build a warm, good house.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u22	A respectable president. I recommend the report of the European Parliament and the EFTA and EEA for 2015. It has been distributed as a Senate document. I think it's safe to say that there was a lot of work in that area, as before. For those who do not know, the Council of Congress has actually done two things, the EEA Convention and also the EFTA has been taking the initiative to negotiate free trade agreements throughout the world. EFTA now has free business contracts with 36 countries. It has been our position on the Council Committee, at least. in the greater part, press for more vacation contracts to be made. The fact is, and there's incredibly little discussion that Iceland and I are in a very good position to be in EFTA and then have a big deal with the EEA, but at the same time, we can make a vacation deal with everyone we want. Of course, we benefit from being with Swiss and Norwegian people who have large markets and high prices. Our market is also desirable for obvious reasons, but we are only 320 yous. ... aman. There is no doubt in my mind that these opportunities can be made better. The difference between being in the European Union and in an EFTA free trade union is that we control our business policy. For example, if we had, like some, not many, not many people, interested in becoming members of the European Union, we would have to realize that then we Icelanders would no longer be businessists. Then we'd be partners with a toll alliance. Anyone who wants to know that there's no particular interest in a vacation store in the world. Those who control that trade policy and are influential, I'm talking behind the scenes because the European Union's table is unique, as it is known, French. France is a highly intertwined city of commercialism, or great style, and it identifies all traffic in the European Union. The nature of the matter is under way in the European Union, which has put greater emphasis on free trade over the years and has built its power on it, such as Britain and the Netherlands. Indeed, there is a lot of business debate in Britain today, in connection with the possible passage of Britain from the European Union, and much debate over what Britain is doing when it comes to free trades and vacation shops in the world because they are involved with the European Union. So you can see that, too, it's done to bring down to customs that we couldn't do if we were in the European Union. It is possible that before people went to the customs we know, they were viewed by the government during the last term, when they went on the peculiar path to apply for membership in the European Union, and it was found that products would greatly increase from certain areas, especially the United States, if we became members of the European Union. What is quite special, too, is that you would expect that because of the European Union's common customs policy, there would be a low cost for Member States when it comes to customs control, but it is not. If we compare ourselves to Malta, I remind me that the cost of customs there is twice as high, if not three times that. This is all in the data I saw in a subset of the last government. It's not particularly discussed in this Iceland Department report. I think it's right to discuss business and business policy in general now. There are extraordinary misinformation and delusions that come from politicians, perhaps especially surly. Councilmen of the United States and other council members of the European Union. They try to paint a whole different picture of the European Union than the real world shows. That's why I'm bringing it up here. Similarly, the so - called castes are often filled with admiration for the European Union and are not simply informing people of what is involved in it but rather trying to create some beautiful image that does not hold a view. Now I'm not saying that the European Union is completely hopeless, although there is no evidence to support going in there, I'm saying that if we're thinking of a vacation store, the European Union is not the place. Again, I draw attention to the fact that if we were in the European Union, we could not have gone to the toll count. Nor could we have negotiated a vacation store, not just in the field of EFTA, but on our own. The French Free Trade Convention, which is, without a doubt, the best thing you've ever seen before. For example, if we were members of the European Union, the minister of the State of Össur Skarphéðinsson, made a large contract that opened a great possibility. There has been a lot of time at the Committee's work getting information at the foreign level on the TTIP situation. The TTIP negotiations are being held at a vacation contract between the European Union and the United States. It is obvious that the United States, although not saying so, has already given up trying to achieve such goals of a global vacation trade at the World Business Institute (WTO). That's very bad news because that scene was supposed to ensure world trade. Clearly, bigger steps are needed in the immediate future. It has been tried for several decades to reach the International Business Agency, but it has not worked out, and therefore the United States has gone other ways. They started making deals with the Pacific, TPP. It says something about Europe's situation, for several decades ago it would have been impossible for the United States to make such a journey without starting Europe. But now it is just so that the importance of the Asian countries at the Pacific is bigger and more, and it will be in the immediate future. The world scene has changed, so we Icelanders will not change, but we need to take into account when we discuss these matters and plan them. That's two types. On the one hand, there's a free business deal with the Pacific that's finished. I have to admit, I don't know where that's going to be in the American government. Then there is the second contract the United States started, a vacation agreement with the European Union called TTIP. It is obvious that it will not happen at any rate. The final information from Icelandic officials was that first it would be completed in 2017 if these treaties were completed. There, customs are not the major issues, but mostly technical business barriers. After we walked in the EEA, we were at the European Union's side in a business war that goes on the list of customs and is primarily about everybody for technical business restrictions. We'll see this on American lips. If people buy a can of American beans, they've had to put some funny note on it with the same contents as the one on the can, but it's only about 100 grams. Instead of the doses on the American dolls. Of course, it's ridiculous. It just makes more money for consumers. It can't be a great job to stick a note like that on these cans. The same is true of cars and other things. Backdrops due to the Atlantic are very strict standards for car production. The transport of vehicles is not to be carried away without all being done because if you take an American car to Europe, it does not meet exactly the standards that are there and vice versa. It tells itself that if these technical obstacles were eliminated, it would be good news for the world, especially consumers in these areas. There are two ways to do that. One is to try to conform to the standards that terrify me. With Iceland and anyone living in the European economy, it is an enormous power for those who control standards, government officials. When they develop these standards, they must pass through the European Parliament and then the National Assembly, but the nature of the case, they have the highest authority to set rules for these technical issues. This often goes quite far, and it's strange. In this case on both sides of the Atlantic, I like better the other way which is to have mutual recognition, so that the places Americans do are approved on the European side and vice versa. It's a long time before it's over, if that's what it's gonna be. It's an old idea. They used to call it TITP, not TITP. Now they're talking about TITP, and hopefully they'll run out of deals, but there's a lot to play in. The goal of the U.S. government is to complete the negotiation before President Obama finishes his terms. He stressed in his campaign that he was very negative when it came to free trade agreements, but he changed the course of the final days, as many presidents have done, well. I hope these goals are reached. What this means for us Icelanders, for it has been considered something, is largely positive. It simply means that unchanged, even if we were not directly involved in the contracts, the products brought into the European market and fulfilled those standards could automatically go to the U.S. market. It would, therefore, be positive for Icelandic exports. Witchcraft has taken it out. The conclusion was that the only negative thing for Norway was that perhaps an American water supply would be competitive toward the Norwegian Ocean into the European market. Despite the free trade, there are certain seafood customs, as we know from the EU market. Then I guess the same thing applies to Iceland. However, I now assume that the competition between the United States and the United States is very strong, and, in fact, Norwegian seaside also, would have negative impact on having to compete with the import from the United States, which would be toll free while importing in the EFTA states would have some toll. We're talking about three options for Iceland. First, that either EFTA or Iceland would have an extra TTIP addition. Second, a special vacation agreement would be with the United States. Third, the situation would be unchanged. After talking with Washington's executives and Brussels, you hear that Americans are all as good at having more inside. Rather, it seems obvious to you that they are creating their own global trading systems. It would have been better if it could be reached at the International Business Institute, but it's better to have something than nothing. We immigrants, who are exporters, will lose on if there is no global exchange, if such a system is not too active, and, of course, consumers on this land and really in all countries of the world. The Iceland Commission has specifically discussed free business with Turkk. Hopefully, we'll get another generation of free trade deal as soon as possible. Turkey is a great and powerful kingdom. It is the only democracy in these parts, except for Israel, that there are not many. Although Turkey is the largest and most powerful, it may be that democracy is not exactly where we would like it to be. There is at least a big difference between that and dictatorial states. Turks are involved in atoll alliance with the EU. This would mean that if they did not get directly involved in TTIP, they would become totally unchanged in some of their problems. They were very worried about that. There's a difference between being in atoll alliance and being in a vacation store. We also talked with a representative of Brazil about free trade agreements with MMCOSUR, one of the largest vacations and toll alliances in South America. It was interesting to hear their viewpoint. I have talked to various authorities about free business over the years. It's interesting to know that even if the state is very large, they're very careful about large companies, such as the European Union, the United States, and others. This involves our strength. We're in EFTA, and although we're on our scale with a large country inside, like Swiss and Norwegian, it's a small vacation alliance that nobody's afraid of. There is no need to worry that EFTA will wade through the filthy shoes of any state or country or region. In effect, EFTA has a positive attitude and wants to talk to and negotiate with EFTA about a vacation store. We're supposed to take advantage of that. This has tremendous strength. There are some who do not know what EFTA is because EFTA is just doing what EFTA is supposed to do. The European Union, so we compare ourselves with it because this is the second option in the European Union, spending more on propaganda and publicity than Coca-Cola. I don't like public money. FEFT owns a logo, so a man fell, a respectable president, but he is primarily doing what such alliances are supposed to do, i.e. to negotiate a vacation store and make sure that free shop deals are held. That's why we're supposed to be in such an organization. I specifically adopted the EFTA Development Fund. When we signed a contract with the European Economic Area, we were made to pay a certain amount for five years, if I recall correctly, rather than seven, to strengthen an area in Portugal, Greece, and Spain. The European Union has taken it very seriously with the argument that we get so cheap from the European community. For example, if we were in the European Union, we would have to pay enormous sums of money into the European Union. They say, "This is what we're using to help the poor -- then we can debate if it's true, but it's their reason - but you have access to the market and you don't have to pay anything, so you have to pay for it in the EFTA Development Fund. We're this year paying you 1. Millions in the European Union development aid. Evolution has been a large part of it. Among other things, it has gone to Great Britain and many other countries we would consider as all the poorest countries. I've stressed it since we're paying off this fund - I have to admit that I'd rather use this money for other development aids than developing support to one of the richest areas of the world - that we use the resources to help the refugees, for it's a problem that's come to be. They need to be processed and helped as far as possible. We are to make full use of this money with respect to the work that I am not going to specify here, but we may want to take a special discussion. You worry about what's far from everyone. There's not much to hold on to this. Although we've recorded this, it was my initiative that we adopted the issues of the EFTA Development Fund, it's hardly exactly been discussed with the fund, either from the distribution or from the course of the year. This is done by some minister, but we need to keep up with these matters. My policy and my opinion is simply that we should use the EFTA funds to help those most in need. There is no doubt that that group is refugees. Finally, a respectable president. I have emphasized that we are also trying to use EFTA to help countries and give the message to countries that are successful. I'm gonna name Arabic in the spring. There is, in fact, just one state that still has real democracy, and that is Tunisia. I've gone to see some councilmen in Tunisia, of course, through another organization I'm in. We are to give a message, though, in which democracy is taking place that we respect democracy and that we have democracy and respect human rights. EFTA and Iceland are to offer them free trade agreements and give them the message that we are on their side in the hard struggle that they are in all around them where Arabic spring was, not fall, but dark winter when it comes to political and human rights. How sad it would be if we saw that the Tunisia experiment did not work out! It would be awful to have to sit up with the fact that we didn't do anything when we could. [[The president calls.]] I hope EFTA will be used for a free trade deal with Tunisia. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u23	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is a warrior who is sometimes in shadow wars, and he never talks about a vacation store and the EU without swinging a fly in front of my mouth, but I never jump on it. I agree with that. A member of the European Union has certainly not obtained a reputation for making free trade agreements, although it may have changed somewhat in recent years. Yet, it is so that a certain paradox was addressed at the same time. A senator when he pointed out that if we walked into the European Union, we would lose much of our weight. He is absolutely correct in saying that all the treaties we have made fall. Yet, the fact is that the speech of some people is floundered. The senator was covering a very remarkable vacation contract and perhaps the most remarkable one we've ever seen in, the TTIP deal. It is of utmost importance, and if we were to be involved in it, it would probably improve the economic growth by half to one percent. I might discuss it here in my second speech. What I would like to talk to you about. A senator is a vacation shop on Japan. Naturally, he didn't come into it because that case has been completely out of the park with EFTA. This is because one of the EFTA countries, Switzerland, has made such a two - sided agreement with Japan. Hence, we cannot use the power of EFTA and all the goods we can do. A senator correctly reviewed here. It is a very important matter for the fishing industry. I have hereby made recommendations on this matter with the support of a number of members of Congress, and I have even approved a rumor on the Foreign Affairs Committee last year. Never will be able to handle this here at the council. Today, something special is happening, i.e. The 60th anniversary of our political relationship with Japan and the State Department is going to Japan. Counts 'em out. A senator did not, although this may not directly relate to what he was discussing, that it is important for us to make the council his will in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to encourage you. A senator to inform people because they are so delusional about the European Union. Like what? A senator said that if we went to the EU, we wouldn't be able to do free trades, for example, not with Japan, which we should, of course, do something about. That's the case with a senator. I've been asking about this in public, and I understand that the problem is that the Japanese aren't ready for that journey, but everything we can do to give a message is very good. But it's good and important. A senator, because he is credible in this field, and has an ear of the EU, tells exactly that we can negotiate free trade agreements with everyone we want, we cannot if we go to the EU, and if we go to the EU, food prices and prices will rise in many areas. He mentions TITP, and I specifically reviewed it. I'm not worried about it even if we didn't even get an extra charge. I know that's what Americans are interested in, that's what they said right to us. The European Union is more reluctant, it appeared at meetings in Washington, but let's hope that they see their own dignity in trying not to keep us outside, but they feel that we are getting away from the position we are in; we do not have all the huge problems that the European Union has. But even if we weren't members, we're enjoying the cost, that's what I was referring to the Norwegian report. What we move into the European market now goes into the United States market. It's one of the things people found, anyway, in the Norwegian way, and I think it's the same here, that a less balanced game is the competition between the Norwegian seabed and, as a result, Icelandic and American if they got a discount on customs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u25	Mr. President. It made me feel a little sad about what I said. Senator. I made, in my opinion, an honest attempt to have a perfunctory discussion with the why. A senator on one particular point. It contains valuable interests for Icelanders and Icelandic exports, for free trades, Japan. I explained in my speech why it was not easy to apply EFTA with as much weight as usual in vacation contracts to the interests we have in Japan. What was the answer? A senator? Yes, like many warriors trapped in a dark war, it was only the EU that found out with him. I've never hid anyone that if Iceland went down in the European Union, all of them would fall off free market agreements. In fact, they are all listed in a report I have prepared for this council, and not just one report, but two. I have also answered this convoluted inquiry. So I won't take any more time from speeches. A senator would try to have a financial discussion with him on this subject. My question was: Does he not believe that the council is needed to show its support for suggestions presented here for years on a vacation shop in Japan? This is because big business interests are involved. We're paying a toll of all the products we're moving to Japan. It lays very high in the Icelanders in their dealings with Japan to the point that the goods that the Japanese bring in, which are many billions of people every year, are not toll. Almost everything we move to Japan, however, remains a toll. I have not spoken for a deaf ear in this council, for I have had great understanding. Hv. A senator has always been a very hard vacation shop manager, and that's why I don't think it's unusual for me to use this conversation, even though the matter has nothing to do with EFTA, to ask him if it's not time, when the Foreign Affairs Committee next month is going to a public visit to the Japanese Parliament and on the 60th political anniversary of Iceland and Japan, that men do this now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u26	A respectable president. There is no chance of communicating with a man or a woman. A senator if he doesn't listen to the answers. I agreed with what he said about a vacation shop deal with Japan. I don't know if I have to write a letter to why. The senator can then discuss these things as they come from me. There's no debate about that. I also mentioned that I had recorded this and, by formal or informal means, got the result that there is no interest in the Japanese, but we are to use every opportunity we can express interest in a vacation agreement with Japan. I don't know if there's anything else I can say. I commended you. A senator for honesty when it came to the EU and urged him to report this. I'm telling you, more dignified President, that the case of the people who want to walk in the EU has not been in this way and therefore I encourage them. A senator to explain to the people who have been lost because they have not received the correct information, to inform about the kind of thing already involved in business. Hv. A senator rightly described that the EU had not been particularly famous or known for fighting for a vacation store in the world. I got it. I got it. A senator to inform people about this. I don't know how much to get up and say good - bye. A senator for the counter, but I'm going to continue and encourage him, because there's a lot of misinformation in a general discussion about the European Union and its business policy. Hv. A senator who knows the matter came here and confirmed that the European Union is hardly a person fighting for a vacation store is a toll alliance. If we go in there, the prices will go up on our lips, because then we'll have to pick up customs that we don't have now and all the vacation contracts we do will automatically fall out, including the free shopping deal with China as a matter of course. A senator ran out as high as he could. Secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A chairman of this fine report, which gives us other members of the Parliament a fine perspective on the activities of the Council Committee of the EFTA. One of the most interesting points is the discussion of the U.S. and the European Union's vacation talks called TTIP, which is called informal. It is an interesting attempt by two continents to work together on the project to increase the world's free trade. It says that the Council of Congress has met with members of the United States and its stakeholders and negotiaters on the part of the United States. It can also be stated here that the United States has taken the initiative to provide information to the EFTA states, at least for employment life in the EFTA countries, and has invited a business organisation, including Iceland, the American-American Business Council, the Labour Association, and others to special information conferences on these issues. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Guðlaug told Þór Thor Þórðarson: "How does this information look on the European Union? The report lists meetings with members of Parliamentary Committee and Ministers of EFTA. I wondered if the Council of Congress has received direct access and direct information from European Parliamentaries on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andersen's victory for the answer. That's right, so I didn't get in my speech earlier, I think I did it last, but I'm sure it's going over again. In the meantime, the European Union did not allow the EFTA countries to be informed despite the need for this. It was the Americans who did it. It was a little strange in all this cooperation on the European scene that Americans would be willing and willing to inform the EFTA countries about what was going on, but not the European Union. During our trip to the United States, I asked about extra business. Then the representatives of the United States viewed it as part of a bigger matter, and they wanted as many kingdoms inside as possible. The European Union official at that same meeting made it difficult to answer that there was no conclusion on this matter; he was now not even in a platform to get the questions. It was not that men were ready on the part of the EU to make a commitment to allow more people to enter. We've always been asking about this and getting different members from the European Union, who come to answer these questions, as well as ask the minister on these matters. But in recent meetings, the European Union's attitude has changed. As the situation is now, they will formally inform the EFTA countries, and then I'll just refer to the last meeting we've held because we've had a general rule of recording these matters all the time. For obvious reasons, i.e. of their size, has not been complained about how the European Union treated the EFTA countries, as it was here some months ago or lost since.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u29	A respectable president. Yes, it is very important that the EFTA countries get information about the situation from both sides. At least I encourage the National Parliamentary Committee of Iceland to make it more difficult to push. However, on the other hand, in terms of the free business negotiations, the nature of vacation contracts is very different. They are widely distributed, dealing with customs and other factors. I'm not gonna make customs into publicity here. But one of the most important things in this contract is the effort to achieve an agreement on mutual recognition of standards. It is often a problem with free trade agreements or tollabanda laws, however, that men agree on one system. On the contrary, they are often trapped in a single system. Therefore, it is a pleasure to conclude that this contract, the TTIP talks, should be aimed at agreeing on mutual recognition of all types of standards. I wanted to know what. A senator might comment on the position of the EFTA countries up to this point. Is there a difference between the individual EFTA parties'judgment on negotiations? And if so, is the difference mainly in agricultural management, because we know that there is always a problem with agriculture? But apart from this, is there a big difference between the EFTA position of the United States and the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u30	A respectable president. We can't be happy right away because of what we're doing. A senator pointed out that the negotiations went on to conclude that there would be mutual recognition of standards. There are two schools. That's the way it is, and I agree with it. A senator says that that's the way you want to see it. Then there are also the ideas of just keeping standards, and that, of course, is a very dangerous idea. It's bad enough as it is today. There's a lot of options. There were a series of business barriers that were broken down when men started taking this thing away. But I think that me and what. A senator would agree that this has gone too far and has ceased to be a business opening and was rather restricted from everything between heaven and earth. But we can talk about it later. That is not the conclusion. With regard to the EFTA state and their position, I would say that Switzerland is the country that had the most experience, decades - even hundreds of years of experience with these matters and that you feel that they are approaching this very practitiony from their viewpoints. The Norwegians have been discussing this more than we have, making more reports and assessments than we have, and discussing this more, apparently, in public. Based on what we can see, people wouldn't be worried about all the same, however undiminished, because, for example, they would get mutual recognition of the station, it would be an additional opportunity for our company to move out into the America market. However, they are concerned about the fishing road. They are concerned that American fishing exports can import customs into the European market, but Norway will not be able to do that. But the big thing is, I think everyone is aware that we have to be involved in this kind of thing. They try to get their views in. Hv. A senator named the agriculture, but the EFTA countries have, at least with agriculture in their own states, been rather protected. [[The president calls.]] But we can't avoid it, all the EFTA countries that have exported, to participate in this. I think everyone is aware of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u31	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - given speech of Þórðarson, once beautifully seasoned by his personal opinions on various big relationships, certainly has been very important in world dealings. I'm gonna go a little bit before I discuss this matter with EFTA to kill, which I really like, a vacation store with Japan. This matter has been presented in three councils, and there has never been a lack of support. In fact, it has come to such an extent that the matter has been settled by the State Department of State, which has been here, in a totally incomprehensible way, remained unacquainted, even though there was not a single person against it. I've never understood it, and maybe that's the way it is, and it's because of what happened to him. paritaprevir Guðlaugur told Þór Þórðarson that the government and possibly the European Commission were not interested in making a vacation deal with Iceland. That may be, they have much less interest in it than we do because their import into Iceland is much lower tolls, in most cases, large groups of products, no one, while we pay substantial tolls of our main export. A small country must always stand firm for its interests, and it is not enough for me when ministers handling the executives work on such matters with an hanging hand because it may be that this opinion has been proposed on behalf of the Japanese that they are not interested in the case. I know what it's like. They have not proposed much interest in this matter, but a small kingdom is supposed to be like a leak, never to stop working for its own interests, and the drop breaks the stone. The suggestions on the subject have pointed out that this year in the hands of a luggage, 2016, is important because it is the anniversary of dealing with countries, and such years are often used to break up other relationships. What better than to do so by accepting a free trade contract between Iceland and the country, in this case, Japan? Second, as a result of exposure to the South China Sea, Japan after World War II has not built up any military power but feels that its various security obligations are threatened by strong neighbors, China, then Japan has sought special ties with the NATO state. It is proper to recall that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe came on a special visit to NATO headquarters directly in order to seek closer cooperation, which, of course, would involve some kind of hold of the Atlantic alliance. It simply matters that we are founded on it and have a voice there, even having a vote in the event of it. Although there is a small kingdom, we certainly have many things to do. It should also be noted that according to the definitions of countries they themselves have proposed to negotiate free trade agreements, it is in the first place a large government law and a state of great resources. For 30 years, we have had extensive contact with Japan. In cooperation with Japan, we have built up our energy industry. Nearly every turban found in Iceland is Japanese, funded by Japanese loans. The system, however, has been that way with the Japanese people that they have not been interested in any free trade agreements. They have been confined, and it is only with the first favour of Prime Minister Shinzos Abes that it will be altered when he puts his samurai view of the future of the three bows and arrows, and one of the arrows he was to have just rode off his bow cord was increasing a foreign trade. That's why countries are standing in line to reach commercial agreements with Japan, but Iceland is nowhere. There seems to be no interest in it. There is only one executive of the Commission, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, highest. aquaculture and agricultural minister, who has stood in the facility there and has done so well. Others have had little to ask, even though they have gone to Japan and received Japanese stewards. I recall that when the assistant minister of Japan, Makino, and all members of the council met with him, he was amazed at the determination of the position that was committed by all members of the council on reaching a free trade agreement. He told them at a meeting that he had not responded to that position with the Icelandic advisers, so we can make it clear. It's not enough for me to put it as an excuse, as heard in a talk earlier, that it was not of interest in Japan. It's always that way when you start making contracts, especially if it leans on another, it makes a point. It is part of negotiation technique, and then you continue to play your arguments and use the weapons you can use. This was about Japan, Mr. President. I'm like a whisk. One prominent speaker was once a great amateur for free shops. In fact, I believe that there is a special connection between evolutionary cooperation and free trade and that no developing partnership is as good as giving free shops. I believe that nothing can support and improve the interests of the African poverty - saving countries rather than try to get them out of the way to get their product on the market with better - born countries. In this chair, I have often said that I believe that it is one of the biggest vices in the European Union how it has reacted to such a situation. We, however, have not, have not. We have a very remarkable business deal with countries in Africa, which may not be of great importance, but it is symbolic of how countries in the Western world have stood up and, in some ways, ran the road there. During the last term, as minister of foreign affairs, I put great emphasis on free trade agreements. We began one six new contracts, and we completed very important vacation contracts. We've completed a deal like that. A senator reviewed earlier, a vacation shop deal with China. Recall that there is one of the two-sided contracts that the EFTA has made that was the first two-sided deal made. There was also the end of a free trade deal with Hong Kong, China. You, too, with Serbia. We made a deal with Ukraine, we made a deal with Malaysia, Vietnam, the Philippines. We took our first step regarding Myanmar. Because I missed the same talk. A senator - and not to be understood, so I have questioned his good will, and I have personally seen it as a foreign secretary's meeting with him and other Icelanders abroad on this matter that his mind and bones have always followed this effort - I cannot help but ask. Senator: What is the current executive of the European Commission doing in this regard? What are some of the issues being fought for a vacation store in EFTA? Hv. A senator named Mercosur. I don't remember that in the past three years, Iceland took the initiative in EFTA to find any vacation contracts as usual. One of the greatest vacation deals EFTA has ever made is the agreement with China. Where did that deal begin? It began here when Icelandic senators met with Canadian members who came here because of the link between Western Icelanders and ours. It was the source of the Canadian vacation contract. I'd like to ask them what. A senator, who may be involved in other aspects of my second discourses: What is the outcome of a free trade deal with India, has no news of it? Second, what's going on with Canada's vacation contracts as high as possible? Secretary of State at the time? Well, maybe. A senator told us about this? I'm not going to go over it any more, but I miss the emphasis on these issues in 2009 and 2013. You're right. A senator said that I was completely guilty of doing the work assigned to me by the General, applying for involvement in the European Union. But I didn't let it go with free trade agreements with other countries, so it's totally clear. I feel like I've been completely forgotten in the past by this government, and I encourage the fighting man of free trade, right? paritaprevir Guðlaug has given Thor Þór Þórðarson, to lend to those who want to take up this mark of their weight and give the government access to it, just as I am sure he will use his position inside the EFTA Committee outside the country to do so too. [[The president calls.]] The Icelandic government needs to be registrated with its slugty in terms of free trade agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u32	A respectable president. To answer this question regarding India, the report on page 12 shows that the EFTA Free Trade for India has been down since the previous part of 2014. Then elections took place in the country, but India has now declared itself ready to continue. I just agree with what. A senator said you'd wanted to see things go faster and better. I think I've taken it up at every meeting of EFTA since I started working there, which was a long time ago. This is shown on page 22. 13 That there is a future reconnaissance of the same subject with the hope that formal talks can begin in the summer of 2016. The EU Convention on Canada from 2014 is far more comprehensive than Canada's agreement with the EFTA countries, so there is an updated effort to ensure the competitiveness of EFTA towards the EU in Canadian trades. The article then points to the beginning of a conversation with Mexico. I just agree with what. A senator on the Japanese case. These are huge interests for Iceland, and we're supposed to do what we can to push it and good if what you hear is wrong, that the Japanese are not interested in making deals with us. I trust each other. A senator in it. I've praised you a thousand times. A senator for his contract with China, on the other hand, interesting, and what. A senator is sincere in his desire to fight for free trade agreements. He did so during the last term, and it would have happened to himself if the government's purpose to get us in the EU had been followed. I got it. I got it. A senator to stop this EU-access, where our interests are not. Well, let's get together on that, as we may be able to increase Iceland's vacation and EFTA countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u33	Madam President. At least we can hug each other, me and him. A senator, over a second talk. Senator. I am very grateful that he takes back his support of Japan in a lengthy way. I wouldn't be here trying to put myself in the front of this case unless I feel that there's something I'm interested in. Senator. He's following him, and he's having effects that I don't have in the board. I feel like I need to give the highest. Secretary of state is holding up this matter. There has been no particular interest in the government in this case except at the highest level. Secretary of the sea. In recent years, I've been asking, but also sharing in the discussions about the foreign minister's report, and consistently taken up the need to update the Canadian deal. There's not one of our favorites here, it's the job life that wants it. It has been reported that it was to be completed before the end of the last year, in fact, once before the end of 2014. Is there any hope that you will ask. I know why. A senator goes hard for Iceland's interests in foreign fields, I ask him to do so on national level as well. As is the case with Mexico, and I shall rightly have also been prepared for some time, that the treaty must be updated with Turkey, just as well. paritaprevir Andersen pointed to it earlier and discussed standards here. The previous generations of these contracts may not have dealt with the factors that are even more important to us today than outright low - level customs. I think it's important to come out, as well as I stress that you don't realize that there's a lot to do with EFTA exactly now, i.e. Director EFTA, for new vacation contracts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u34	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator says that these matters cannot be done quickly enough. The nature of the matter, according to the Senate Committee, provides political support for these institutions. I think I can agree with everything. A senator said of free trade agreements and their status. Of course, we're supposed to take more advantage of ourselves. I accept it as an encouragement when it comes to it. A senator says we should put it to work, and the man standing here is more in this room, and press after this. I will. I'm leading to the highest. Minister of the current government. I have felt nothing but great understanding and his interest in these matters. A discussion of the matter between us during informal meetings may have been more common in other countries. We won't discuss these matters much. I've moved it many times, but it's never been the first Senate case until the fall, and I thought of what way to go in it with something called Iceland's business policy. The Economic and Business Committee has not been a fool to finish, despite the fact that all the narratives and everything else have been ready and so is the case. It's a big foreign business, and it's a big deal. It's totally ridiculous that we don't have a defined business policy we're discussing. We are fortunate enough to guide all of this, and there is little in the foreign affairs that has more interest than business. I'll put this case back into the council, but I have to admit, there's little in the case. A financial and business committee has not been able to complete the case in two if not three recent Parliaments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u35	Madam President. I got it. I got it. A senator for the honor of a financial and business committee. I don't think he should drop his dough and recall that once during the last spring, I tried to encourage him to complete a suggestion against another committee, which I thought he was struggling with, but later came out, caring for the environment and perhaps the man who sits in the distance. You're absolutely right. According to one U.S. senator, EFTA is an enormously powerful tool to break and clear up the way for our interests in a foreign business field. IF THERE have been very good for us. It's like with other institutions, that people always have to stand in their place and encourage the smart. It's very important. Iceland can take a lot of initiative within EFTA, both of its members, but also within the Council of Ministers of EFTA. That's important. These are very few countries. Iceland probably does not have a place in any other government or government, since it can have the same effect. It was simply so that during the last terms, many treats were completed and others rejected. Some of them do not necessarily provide significant benefits for Iceland during these years, but these are countries that are estimated to be strong through the development of time and may make a powerful market for Icelandic export, such as. from agriculture, especially, and that's what matters. We made a vacation deal with Florida, Hong Kong, China, Ukraine, Montenegro, Serbia. We set off at Thailand again, started other talks, and you're a little surprised now that the end of the season is that you see very little happening under the hand of those who now hire EFTA, and there Iceland must look at her share. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u36	Madam President. There was only one point that I could not break up and that I could not learn from my first talk. It was our personal interest in the United States as well as in the possible agreement called TTIP. paritaprevir In his speech earlier, Gudleful Þórðarson said that people would expect to be completed at some point in 2017. Now I may not be as optimistic as the outcome of that contract. paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson. However, I agree with him that this is a change that could be of great importance in business between Europe and the United States. This will not be just tolls that will, in some cases, severely decrease. What I think was far more important is that point at any given moment. paritaprevir Andersen's victory killed on here earlier today, i.e. conformity standards. Although the most difficult obstacles are technical, there are sometimes a much higher wall against the normal flow of commerce than the toll barriers itself. This I think may lead to a significant benefit from this contract. Then you say, "What about Iceland?" What's Iceland's position? If so, we need to first consider why we are in charge of using EFTA to negotiate free trade agreements. Yes, we are outside the European Union, i.e. The states there, and our contracts have, at least In the last 15 years, to a growing extent, we are evening the competitiveness of enterprises in these three countries against companies that they compete with in the EU. To that end, this is of vital importance. In turn, if we make a deal between the United States and the European Union and become a big vacation agreement, we will be aware that if nothing has to be done, they will compromise the competition between the European Union and the enterprises that work within the EFTA Union. This simply means that companies they compete with in the European Union will have a better position for the market that is found in the United States. That is why it is of vital importance that we work to achieve some kind of position in order to balance this difference. Note that countries that are not involved in these negotiations vary in ways or are considering different possibilities. Turks, which have basically been from a century ago, are saying, as an application state, that the European Union, for example, has wanted to be involved in the contract in the force that Turkey is a NATO state and an application state. It's reasoning that men can stick fingers in and I'm not going to go in, it's not perfect. On the one hand, there is a way to go. paritaprevir Gulgiful Þór Þórðarson mentioned earlier, that this contract would be added to the population of Icelanders. I'd like to ask them what. Senator: Does he know if the Icelandic government has a formal interview with an appropriate party for Iceland to be added to this agreement? I'm sure it's going to work. However, I say: In this situation, it is a stone that needs to be claped and no one should take no for a valid answer, as if it should not be hampered by a holiday deal with Japan, although in the first step Japan, Japan does not necessarily blink. By the way, for me to take one of the appendixes here, Madam President, regarding Japan. Obviously, we may not be invited to say no to Japan if we formally wish for vacation business talks when we see that they have not treated us properly in all ways. We, for example, are the only state in the North, who has not had an air travel contract with them. That's what matters to me. So I'll come back to TITP as a boy. A senator mentioned the third possibility, i.e. A free trade deal with the United States has been tried by both the former government and the government there before it, as well as by the previous ones. The fact is, America is not interested unless it comes up with certain benefits of importing agricultural goods from Iceland and that's not possible. [[The president calls.]] Icelanders have not wanted to. Counts 'em out. A senator that there's a realistic chance of reaching a vacation store deal with the United States?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u37	A respectable president. Hv. A member of the congregation discussed many aspects of the talk, and I thank him for having a share in this discussion as well as at the same time. paritaprevir Andersen's victory. I think this case is of such magnitude, Iceland's business policy, that it needs to be discussed. Iceland's business policy is all about the EFTA protocols, the free trade agreements and, of course, the EEA deal. I'm not going to scold the individuals who are participating in the discussion in a perfunctory way that both have. However, members of Congress made it clear that we are just three who have participated in this discussion of the nation's immense interests. These are huge interests. It's impressive with the EFTA, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, as different countries in one part of the world as I think they can be, but they have two things in common. On the one hand, they are rich nations, and then it is relatively short since they were all very poor. Without access to foreign markets, all these nations would still be poor. Hv. A senator referred to development aid, and there is no doubt that the best thing to do in development is to let these developing nations into our market. There is no doubt about it. One of the reasons why I have very little love for the European Union is its view in these matters. Hv. A senator came into a vacation contract and the United States, and I'll get to it, I'll answer a question why. A senator with regard to his dealings with the United States and TTIP. There's a lot in the United States, and we get regular reports about it, but it's the only superpower in the world, and it's totally incomprehensible how we've signed down government officials at the State Ministry of State all over Europe like nobody's tomorrow, but in Washington, where's the only superpower, we have two dipolamates, excellent dipolamates. But America is a great empire. We've got our interests down there and it's totally incomprehensible how this peculiar EU Hall is in foreign service. For example, most countries are making good use of them in an organized way. I am referring to the northern countries, and developing special contact with people in the United States who should be traced back to the northern countries. We have a very close relationship there, one fourth or fifth of the nation that moved to the Western world at the time of the turn of the century, as the western voyages were divided between the United States and Canada. We're closer to the Western Icelanders in Canada, but we should grow closer to those in the United States. These are many people who are well - versed in government and politics, and it would be a great help if we were in good relations with them because the decisions are only a small part of the government system. Among other things, they lie with elected representatives and especially with the Bible writers. I feel that we have shown in this, like so many other childliness in the Icelandic foreign service. Hv. A senator referred to Turkey, but Turks believe that they are in a very bad position about TTIP because they are in a tax alliance with the EU. They say, unchanged, we're not allowed access to the deal. There will be nothing more than for customs to lower American products into the Turkish market, but we will not be able to get the reduction in the United States. We are not in a union with the European Union, and therefore we are not in that position. I specifically thought that I wouldn't worry about it, the biggest worry would not be that we wouldn't be partners with TITP. Why? Because, like a whale. A senator mentioned matters. paritaprevir Andersen's victory mentioned, and I also went over it in my story, that it's not even about customs. It's about technical business barriers. Some products are not about to be produced. As far as I know, one Icelandic car has been manufactured and it was 1977, and we're not even about to fall into that production. But it's completely annoying that we have to pay a much higher price for American cars than we would have to do about some technical business ventures in the European Union. Then what happens if these contracts are reached? I just agree with what. A member of the council in that way does not necessarily mean that it does. True, I think the reason why the European Union is dealing with these issues is urgent. In the European Union, the situation is such that they have to do this, not because they want to. If they'd wanted a vacation store like what they wanted. A senator pointed out that they were not famous for wanting to do so would no doubt be the second round of the WTO International Business Agency. Not because the European Union has opposed it, but because they have not driven it forward. They have not followed the United States in this. The only times that have been made some serious contracts in that field, whether it is GATT or WTO, have been because the Americans have taken the initiative to follow it. One was hoping that the European Union, this big business block, would be involved, but they have been more reversible. As a result, Americans go their own way. However, I think most likely because of the European situation, people will not be able to avoid it, they will not dare to make that agreement on the European Union at some point, simply because of competition in the areas mentioned in Asia and the Pacific. As I mentioned earlier, it would have been impossible decades ago, relatively few, that Americans had begun making such agreements on the Pacific side, they had always begun the Atlantic. But because of the changing world situation and the changing world scene, we're the two of us. We're not number one if we think we're Europeans. A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson asked me if we could have an extra party and if we asked. I referred to it earlier, but I'm sure it was over again, that at these conferences in the United States, they were interested in being members like the EFTA countries could have a side effect. It would be built into the agreement that nations could enter it. It was the information we received from the partners who handled the negotiations on the part of the United States, that they wanted to see it. The members of the European Union at this meeting protested that this finding had come to a conclusion, but it would be interesting if the European Union prevented the EFTA countries from becoming members of this free trade system. Of course, we need to wait and see and see. One of the major issues that have inhibited more cycles at the International Business Agency and the world trade is agriculture. Of course, not only are agricultural issues, but they are one of the big issues. I see a chance there for us Icelanders because we have a special place in agriculture. In Europe, we and Norwegians have the longest antibiotic use of agriculture, and this is mainly because our traditional farms have little use of antibiotics. We are to emphasize it and introduce to the people of the land. A consumer's own rights are to know what's in the product. With regard to the support we have, we should have support for traditional agricultural products, but like our agricultural bitch, now we're primarily protecting the white meat, the factory production. This is totally awesome. So I just see an opportunity in this field. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson wants to eat hormonal meat or antibiotics, I think that's what it is. A senator should have a choice. On the other hand, I want to know what's in the product, and I have found that I have failed to inform consumers about this. I'll just eat less of the meat, though I have to pay more for it because wholesome products, productions, are something I want to choose on my plate and at my closest level, and I'm sure I'm not alone. So I don't see a chance at this. But I don't feel that we're using them. I see the TTIP deal primarily as an opportunity for Icelanders. If they slide on their ass with it, then, I think, something big happened at that point. I don't know how a case develops. Nor do we know what will happen if Britain, e.g. would come out of the European Union, which I find unlikely to be, or if you would change the European Union something to try to keep the British inside. If they went out, if they were, for example. If I think EFTA is the best solution, I think we're going to see an increase in power at a vacation store in the world. Even if the EU has a different view of this, it would be difficult for them to resist. If someone as big as the United Kingdom had come in and was concerned about doing a lot of vacation contracts and extra vacation shops in the world, it would make it difficult for the Toll Community to hold the position it has held up so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u38	Mr. President. I'm not sure. A senator is right about the continuation of Britain in the EU. I think there's at least a equal chance that it might go out. I'm not sure it's worse for Iceland or the EU, but it's a different story now. Whatever the case, we agree that Iceland, based on export, has to have business contracts. You're absolutely right. Senator. I feel like there's no business policy. This business policy must be shaped by our personal interests and circumstances to the highest market. In the face of the great changes that are about to take place there, we must respond. I agree with all the possibilities I have. A senator has tore up here, e.g. to Iceland's position if the TTIP deal becomes. There are possibilities, but that stone needs to be patted, and we need to take the initiative in EFTA because it has a powerful influence. Free trade agreements were considered out - of - date. I, who have spent a long time here on foreign affairs, was a long time ago convinced that nothing would come out of this Doha business. It was the Doha negotiations that pushed free trade agreements off the board for many nations and lay low as a machine. Yeah, old-fashioned, old-fashioned, well-tempered and very practitiony. That is why, when I came to the administration of foreign affairs, I immediately stressed the two - side agreements between EFTA and various states and states and Iceland according to incidents. I don't think there's anything coming out of this Doha thing, and I don't agree with that. Congress that it is the EU to blame, mainly the peculiar political position in the United States. No decisions could be made, since there were always delicate elections in the United States, and, as one knows, almost every year. But I believe they need to consider this. But I think it's going to be very difficult to catch a vacation deal with the United States, two-sided or with EFTA, but it's probably once again. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u39	A respectable president. I just agree with what. Senator. It's not bad for Iceland if the United Kingdom leaves the EU. I think it'd be really good for Iceland. Actually, I think it would be really good for Europe if Britain went out of the EU. I think men are in trouble in the EU, and nothing is enough to fix it except revolutionary things. The current situation is very serious and there is no indication that it is beginning to improve. I agree with what. A senator says that we need to shape business policy. That's why I'm re-enacting my bill about it. I haven't heard anybody blame the United States of America for Doha. Who started making big vacation contracts when the Doha talks didn't work out? Yes, there were Americans. However, I think that many, including the EU, used it as an excuse not to go to free trade agreements because the Doha talks were in progress, although everyone knew they were not running out. What I criticize the EU is not what they have done but, in fact, what they have not done. If the United States and the European Union were to converge their strings and change the International Business Agency in some way in order to expand the world vacation trade or to begin a new round that is due to produce something, very few people might stop them. Together, the United States and the European Union remembered the potential for increasing free trade in the world. The United States can make a decision on its own and has already done things since they started. The main reason and the thought behind completing the Pacific Conference is that Americans are putting pressure on the EU to finish an agreement with them. That is why after they try the other way. I'm critical of the European Union for inaction. And it's a long time for vacation contracts to become out - of - date, I agree. A senator on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u40	A respectable president. The free shop agreements are very practitional weapons, but they went out of style. There were no free trade agreements going on, considering what was here for years. They were all waiting for Doha, and that's exactly right. A senator said, the Americans took the initiative in that round. It was always too delicate because there was always an election, either for Congress, and it is now once every two years, or the election. The United States was never able to take sides in sensitive agricultural interests. Regarding the big contracts, such as TITP, it is again the cars and agriculture that are going to be the most difficult to deal with. Hv. A senator understood my words, so I thought TTIP would have nothing. That's the wrong idea. There's gonna be something from TITP. Perhaps not at that time. A senator mentioned this, but the results are much waterier than they started at the beginning. Business policy for Iceland is fine. A senator has moved, and this is one of the lacks of vision. For example, I'd like to mention to the Foreign Affairs Committee this morning that the TPP deal, i.e. The agreement of 12 Pacific states on decommissioning customs would be introduced to the State Department of Foreign Affairs because I believe that the situation will arise that over time states like Iceland or an EFTA will be able to determine whether it is in some way possible for their interests to become more involved. At any rate, we need to decide whether it serves our interests. Free trade agreements and involvement in such alliances may not bring a direct benefit today. They are like seeds planted by men, and the time comes when there will be opportunities there to reap. [[The president calls.]] That's why we're supposed to try to ride this net now and have it all ready and be able to take on these opportunities in the future if we need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u41	A respectable president. Only because of the Doha tour and the WTO. If you ask the party involved in this, people in general blame the Indonesians, that they stopped their talks because of the rules of authorship and something like that. But I think it's very farfetched to blame Americans who have taken the initiative in all agreements of the International Business Agency and GATT. The European Union has never taken the initiative. I think there's a chance of blaming them that these cases haven't run out, so they've shown it by going to the big business agreements that we're dealing with here. Hv. A senator mentions automobiles and agriculture, the big issue. It's not just cars. I only mentioned cars for example. There is a general technical obstacle to industrial products. Then there are things like public invitations that are big business. It provides ample evidence that the United States has been very tough in its policy of protection. Of course, each nation cares for its own interests. It's all about national interests. It'd be better now. We, as Kosins, are at the General Assembly of the Icelanders, must take care of the interests of the Icelanders. That is not what others do. And while we may be acting in a tactful and reasonable manner, we need, of course, to take care of our country's interests. They certainly do, and although nations are in the European Union, they are concerned about their interests. It's just because we live in the human world. Here's the bottom line: I'm counting on it. A senator would take advantage of his ability to finish the business course of Iceland so that at least it would be a more serious discussion now, I would like us to accept the case because it sounds to me at once. A senator agrees that most of the business matters are involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u42	A respectable president. It is safe to say that in the last year, there has been a high number of activities in the Northern Council. In fact, never before did the eyes of the countries turn to the Norwegian partnership, how to strengthen and develop it. It was a privilege to serve in the office of the Council of the Northland at this time, and I think it is safe to say that there has been a tremendous success in improving the cooperation, making it more difficult and more visible to the inhabitants of the Northern countries. This is significant because large questions turn to the entire North countries and the prime minister of all countries have declared that the international cooperation between countries strengthens the country and can make it possible to improve the living conditions here and, above all, to strengthen their position in the great world. In fact, that journey began two years ago at a spring meeting of the Northern Council, held in Akureyri, Iceland. For the first time, the National Council decided to counter Russia's conduct and issued a declaration of an illegal involvement in the United States of Crimea. It was identified as illegal, unacceptable, and offensive to the Ukraine Constitution. As a result, I decided to strengthen the cooperation of the Northern Council with countries in Eastern Europe, expand my horizons, and that was a good sign. The Benelux countries then decided to participate in that work after a plane was shot down over Ukraine. It's nice to tell you that this summer, Mr. Benelux will give me the award for my participation in all that work. I will admit that I am very proud of that recognition. It was not only a member of the Crimea Russians that attracted our attention but also the terrorist attacks in Paris and Copenhagen, and they put their faces on the work of the Council. After the spring council was held in Akureyri the year after it was held in Brussels, the European Parliament, but following the attacks in Paris, the organization became difficult, and for security reasons, we had to move this spring to Copenhagen last year. I strongly criticized the terrorist attacks, criticized the rise of extremeism, and those who practice extremeism, and repeatedly pointed out that we did not accept it as a religion or that this was part of a religious war, but we had to peer into the root of the problem and realize that extremeism is becoming one of the biggest problems and greatest threat to us living in Western communities. I have noted that freedom of expression and democracy are among the basics and cornerstones of the open Norse welfare community. As a result, the Northern Council decided to support the National Government Convention on Norse cooperation in preventive measures against extremeism. It is a fact that, on its own, there are new words in the Council of the North to interpret foreign affairs to the same extent. Perhaps the Thorand of Stoltenberg, former minister of Norway, gave us an excellent guide when he said that if they wanted to strengthen cooperation between the northern nations, they would need to discuss foreign affairs to a greater extent. He published a report of the material and then visited the Council of Northern America in Stockholm about a year and a half ago, where he prepared answers. He said that as long as the fences are falling, the world is shrinking, it would be necessary to respond in this way, discuss difficult cases, discuss foreign affairs, discuss matters at present. As a result, there might be increased cooperation between the norse nations in economic affairs. It would be that the Norwegian nations, Norwegian senators, would come together and discuss foreign affairs with realness and intensity. That is why I thought that it was a clever suggestion for peace search between Israel and Palestine. Although they are far from us, they affect us in the North countries every day, every day, in the news, in increasing refugee currents, and in other areas in this area. We should follow the example of the United Nations and others who would have encouraged the nations to recognize Palestine as a sovereign and independent kingdom and to encourage the Israelites and Palestinians, with the support of the northern nations, to promote peace and harmony with peace. There was a debate between proposals and, of course, people there discussed whether the Northern countries were beyond their scope, whether it was their case discussing countries as close as they could be - Russia, cooperation with thebaltian nations, White Russia, and other things - this might be on the outside. This case was handled, which I believe was practical for the Northern Council, within the council, within the Presidency Committee. Some wanted to dismiss the case. I refused, and since the vote for the President of the Northern Council was double at a vote, it was decided to employ the case at the council held in Reykjavík a few months ago, at the end of October. It was decided to accept a move made by the Council of Northern Europe to direct them to the Norwegian governments to submit to the Norwegian Parliament a proposal to accept Palestine as their sovereign and independent state and to encourage the Israelites and Palestinians, with the support of the Northern States, to promote peace and harmony with internationally established agreements and with UN resolutions. Another adjustment proposal was also adopted that involved decisions on the Northern Council's internal issues. This is how the adjustment was made: ▪ National Council agrees to ask members of Congress to encourage their governments to support the two states of Israel/Palestina and to be a free and sovereign state when it can become the way for peace. It is recommended that these two adjustments be made at the council. They were given a lot of discussions, but it was decided, with much more than that, to accept and accept these adjustments, and it was well established. During the autumn months, the affairs of refugees in Europe and the North countries were getting more attention, and during the council, we decided that these matters needed to be discussed between the countries, between members of the Parliament, and to receive the attitude of the prime minister of all northern countries to this important issue. In other words, this discussion was not only abstract but extremely helpful and important and not only because of the problem facing the North countries but also for the cooperation we want to maintain in the Northern Council. Many questions were addressed to the prime ministers who were willing to answer and, in my opinion, came up with some sort of solution to the problem. I think it is important that we review what was said in the Northern Council in October 2000, when we read reports about new legislation in Denmark and decisions in Sweden. Once again, I would like to encourage the leaders of these states, the states of the north, to sit down and achieve a common solution to this great problem. It is important for all the North countries, important for Iceland, and unfortunately, there have been steps that I consider inconformable in many ways regarding the legislation in Denmark and that need to be discussed. It needs to be discussed at the highest level. In addition, we conducted a seminar on the refugee problem of the council. There we obtained the most skilled experts from the European Union, from OECD, to inform us about the root of the problem, to learn the most about how things were being handled, not only in central Europe, but also in southern Europe, which was a good and important meeting. Other subjects burned us up like climate change, and the proposed UN climate conference in Paris made a great deal of expression on the international talk at the Council of Northern England. There the Norwegian Environment Ministers sat for reply during an unsupervised period of inquiry. There, the Norwegian Environment Ministers issued a statement, and I believe that there was an important introduction to the climate conference, to put in place about greenhouse gas emissions, about the concentration of fossil fuels and the funding of climate-related activities, all of this in connection with an international agreement for climate in the COP21 conference in Paris, i.e. The climate convention. I think that, among other things, this created the basis for the good agreement that reached the important climate conference, but just as the Council here in Reykjavík was a major turning point, the Paris climate conference was also the same. During the fall council, in October, we were also able to agree with reform proposals for the change in the Council of the Northern Country, a decrease in committees, suggestions aimed at bringing the entirety together if necessary. The Northern Council has been critical of the lack of prominence in the work of members of Congress and of the good work being done there has not paid off to citizens of the country, and the media have not shown enough interest. All of this changed during this fall of the council, and measurements show that media coverage has never been greater than at this time since the council in all countries. I think it helped us to discuss the current issues, we were discussing matters that are of immense importance to the population of the country, perhaps in ways other than those that have been widely discussed, such as administrative restrictions and other factors, things that may be a little more distant, but they are of enormous importance. We had a grand award, and RUV deserves credit for its part. We stressed that the awards delivery would be live, and it was sent directly to several countries. Other countries showed it as soon as the opportunity arose, there was a lot of interest in the awards delivery, and most agreed that the Icelanders had done a great job with planning on the program. We received excellent artists; Rúnar Freyr and Hilmar Örn Agnarsson, who conducted the festival, were honored for their part in all of it, and the broadcast was magnificent. We know that the prizes of the Northern Council are enormously important to national culture; film awards, literary prizes, awards for child-adolescents, music awards, and environmental rewards. I suggested that we add one of the prizes, the TV guards that would be paid for the best TV program. Norse television has become very successful and popular in many parts of the world. We all know of these factors and best to mention Unable, an extremely popular feature in this country, but there are factors such as Forbrydelsen and Broen, the internoristic factors that have been displayed in many lands. It is ridiculous, in fact, that these factors or factors are not to be won from the Council of the North, because this could help these factors tremendously, helping national programs in the countries. These factors would be easier to get into the ratings beyond either the appointment or the award. I'm glad to report that the Presidency Commission agreed to let this matter continue. The committee that has the matter discussed today, the cultural committee, has also taken a very positive view that this prize will be added, and I believe that it will be a great deal of honor to the Council of the north. There are certainly many other matters that I have not killed on in my speech, but I would especially like to mention an increased willingness to cooperate in the north. This is of utmost importance to us Icelanders and was part of my lead plan as president of the Northern Council. Increased cooperation in health care is something of a rich will within the Council of the North. We will see that the health costs of all countries will increase in the coming years. I think that working together in the North countries may be a big deal of savings. Finally, I want to know that as I left, I felt that cooperation in the North countries was something that other countries, other countries, wanted to be exemplary. The northern countries are watched, and people wonder what it is that has made peace for 200 years between countries; how we can build our cooperation on democracy and the freedom of expression, so there are many things we can see. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I say, hopefully we'll find out of the stronger Northern Council and that the work we managed to start this year will be held out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u43	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for his good speech. In itself, I have no questions and I don't have to fester about one thing or anything at all. Senator. I am grateful to him for the Hymanian attitude reflected in his speech. A member of the council feels that it was very good to have him in the place that he was already in the case until he tore here and made a suggestion for relations between Palestine and Israel. Truly, I felt that there was reason why the Icelanders could be proud that this matter should be discussed and resolved in this way. The starter was, if I remember correctly, what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. paritaprevir Þórhallsson, then president of the Council of the North, prepared his means to handle this. It wasn't by itself, but it was about the part of the Icelandic Parliament, which eventually supported all of this. I simply say as an old amateur and fighter for the fact that the object of Palestinian people will be right for me to care that the Icelanders will come to the matter in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's warm words to me now, as they were before, do not seem to screw up when he turns up. I want to agree with him because I think he's right. A senator, that it was for the entire Icelanders. I was only an employee and got this case, and it was willing to push it off the table, unfortunately. It is true that the case originally came from the left side but to achieve this reconciliation and to bring about the same controversial case through the Northern Council, I believe that it has been a fine victory for all of us in the Northern Council and especially for us Icelanders who have previously concluded in a similar way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u45	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the report and congratulates him on his acceptance. That's one of the Norwegian partnerships I'd like to ask. A senator on the outside, and maybe you could say that there's a link between government violations, I think it must be listed under that. This is a matter I have spoken to at least several times with the highest. Social security Minister, and a case in terms of payment from the Social Security System to those who are underdeveloped on residences in the country, but to get full pay from the Social Security System, there must be 40 years of living here while the population is 18◯67 years old. So it is that there are quite a few people who have not lived or do not meet the farm and system's requirements to work so that they can get paid from the country they have prepared from their pension or insurance systems. However, there is a lack of payment, including failure. because the social security systems are different. This applies not only to people who have lived in distant lands but also to people who have lived in other parts of the North. I'd like to direct it to what it is. A senator who asks him: " Is this a matter that has been discussed in the field of the Northern Council? Is this something people are discussing there?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u46	A respectable president. I'm on the Presidency Committee, and maybe some of my other associates here from the Council of the North can tell me if this was discussed on their committees, but if I remember correctly, this has come up. I think I'm doing the right thing. I'm sorry, you're right, and maybe not, unfortunately, that's just the way it is, that the national social security systems are different. This is a big problem. I think I'm correct when I say this is one of the larger legal problems of the Council of Human Rights, controlled by Friðleifsdóttir Fräuleinddddóttir, former General and Minister. I know there's been a rich will in the Northern Council to try one way or another to fix it, to change. As the senator rightly pointed out itself, the insurance systems are different, but there is a search for ways to resolve these issues. I wish I could answer better, but unfortunately, I have no further information.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I think it's very important that we give them the end of these administrative barriers special attention because, at least, the situation in Iceland, people who have lived in other parts of the Northlands and are thus paid with a poor farm in Iceland, at a very poor price, and this is the worst-class pensioner population in the world. That's right, because I think we're all agreed that we want mobility between the Northerns and the Norwegian labour market, we're going to have to take it seriously. I'm glad to hear that when there's a lot of discussion in that area. So, finally, I'd like to direct the Council of Iceland to enter this case and be concerned with the fact that this is about how a group of people in Icelandic society will be able to support themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u48	A respectable president. One of the largest projects of the Northern Council is to eliminate the administrative barriers. Although the results have been extremely successful over the years, I will admit that fatigue is so certain with slow paces. This does not mean, however, that a Council of the North is going to get its grip on it, and I am very kindly suggesting that we take a closer look at it and take a look at it. I am confident that my associates in the Northern Council will agree, and we will take it up at a meeting, not just the Iceland Department, but the meetings we attend at the Council of the Northland in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u49	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for sharpening us in this administrative issue. It's a case that's been at the North Council for a very long time. Actually, there are always new administrative barriers we're trying to deal with because it's such a big deal in the Northern Council, i.e. doing so as easily as possible to be a northern population, and we can exchange it to be professional, insurance, and well - being in many ways. It's like the chairman of the Council of Northern Iceland, huh? paritaprevir Þórhallsson, this matter is under constant discussion, and there is a degree of irritability among the Council of Northern Congress from all countries as to how slow these cases seem to go. That's why I want to thank you for your urgency, and I know like a dog. A senator has said that we will take even more action in this regard. I'd like to thank the General and the members of the Northern Council in Iceland in the fall. I think that was a good job there, and Iceland was a lot of respect. I'd also like to mention, because we were talking about television that it was very important that the award was sent out to RUS on the air and to other northern countries as well. This is an important part of making the work of the Northern Council visible to the public. I hope it continues. Two years ago, there was a break in the history of the Council of the Northern Lands, where foreign cases were being discussed at the scene of the Council of England, which was greatly improved. This was followed by a Russian violation of international law and approval. [[The president calls.]] I might get to ask you my question in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u50	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator and reiterate how well he was doing, not only to the council in Iceland, but also to the award of the award. We kept all of this in the village, but there was a lot going on before the council came true, and I'll admit that at a time, I was very worried, especially about the arrival that I felt at a time would draw my feet. But as with us Icelanders today, it all went well and maybe just hoped again, and I think the Council will be remembered as a landmark council in the Northern Council. I'm glad it was here in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u51	A respectable president. I didn't quite finish the foreign business. I'd like to hear the evaluation of an advanced president of the Northern Country Council whether it was a serious matter to make the Northern Council more effective in today's discussion that we don't always have to separate these matters, which I thought were very painful. What I wanted to do in the last few seconds is what I've thought was all about in the work of the Council of Iceland since that department took over in 2013. It's the interpretation service, because with it, and it was introduced by the new president of the Council of Northern Iceland, we've been able to make ourselves much more relevant in this cooperation. I believe the Icelanders and the Icelandic taxpayers get much more for their money now than we can now speak our own national tongue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u52	A respectable president. For one thing, I believe that a foreign discussion has taken an enormous interest, and I believe that it is relevant to continue that demilitarization. Now we look up the refugee problem, we see various operations in the northern world, and this needs to be discussed in the Samokinetic field. Then I'd like to agree with what. Senator, I think it was a great step at the National Council of Iceland to demand that the Icelanders speak their own language in discussions of unique matters. Although many were well - versed and well - versed in Northern America, they found their own language, Danir, Norwegian, and Sweden, they all spoke their own language outside the Icelanders, and they actually made us smaller. It has nothing to say, but when it comes to reasoning on a big, big matter, it is important that it be done in your own language. [[The president calls.]] I agree with what. A senator, I think it was a huge deal at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u53	A respectable president. I thank you for the report that has been presented here on the Norwegian cooperation of the past year. Late this year, I had the option of working at the Council of the Northern Lands, in the hands of the past and later the death of the vice president of the Northern Council. paritaprevir The son of Hannesson, who is Guðbjartur, receiveth his office in the council. It was September that I arrived at the Council of the Northern States, and I have to say that it has been a pleasant experience and a new opportunity to share in this Norwegian cooperation and to contribute to the topic of activity there. The Council of Northern Ireland, which last week in October of Reykjavík, was on hand, when I entered the council and was then promoted in Hörpu, where 4,990 members of the General Assembly of all the Northern Nations, met up with a decision on the most important work of the Norwegian team in the coming losses. As noted earlier, it marked a turning point, for it entered the realm of international politics in a far greater and more decisive way than before has been practiced in discussing the affairs of refugees and the reactions of the North American community to the role that motivates the door - to - door conflict with the Mediterranean Sea. Palestine's topic was also used for decision-making, and it was based on other important turning points, since the Northern Council's work has been further aimed at dealing with national internal issues, their cooperation between them, than our international position. But this is inevitable development, the changing of the world, the changing of social and social media, and the rapid growth of transport affect national relationships and can extend borders and down the globe. As a result, the North Council is bound to become increasingly current in the international community. There is no question about it, Norwegian cooperation has created the northern population a tremendous improvement in quality of life over the past decades, culturally, economic and socially, since the support of the public towards the Norwegian community has rarely been greater than right now. It is very important that this cooperation is greatly increased, especially in the light of the rapid internationalization that our communities now undergo with all the new possibilities of this trend. The colonies of northern countries are well educated, technologically advanced, and wealthy, economic, and socially rich, and have tremendous potential in that area and have much to do, especially if they succeed in working together as a powerful unit. I would also like to mention the northern community, which becomes more and more important in view of the recent Arctic development. Sadly, the report given earlier shows that I feel that there may still be a little love in that category. The northern parts are mentioned on page 8. 4 In the report and reports that they were part of the Iceland Presidency Programme, but they are not further discussed in this category, which is sadly due to the growing number of cases. The Arctic changes are much faster than anyone ever dreamed they could be a few years ago. The melting of the Arctic ice and the ever-growing voyage through the North Pole, the resources that great nations see below the bottom of the ocean and the earth, not to mention the loss of life groups in the ocean that the coastal world has built on; all of this has made people more aware of how much is at stake for the ecosystems and economics of the northern world. This trend that I am describing now, and most of us know, has led to increasing numbers of countries, institutions, and organizations seeking to share in the quality and possibilities of the north, especially with resource use before us. At the same time, the government has overcrowded cooperation with countries as the superpowers make themselves more relevant in the north. Great nations have defined the Arctic as a militaryly important and military presence. Similarly, more and more nations have seen reasons to reprove their sovereignty and their usefulness interests. Then the Norwegian community must take its place and protect the interests of the northern countries and a position of agreement with the rest of the world. Therefore, it is more important than ever to promote and improve the cooperation of North countries in the national environment and security. The fact is also that despite each country's small size - at least 50 of us - is around 50 of us. People, the largest of about 10 million - are united in the ten most powerful economic areas in the world. Job parties, equations, equality, environmental awareness, and social justice are in the North countries with the world's greatest causes. Because of our close cooperation and common history and cultural heritage, our attitude and interests are more often than not shared. It is vital that we make even greater use of this unique situation than is being done today and moving forward. In the Northern Council, groups work and put their emphasis on the work of the Council. In particular, North American peers have been concerned with the importance of the North American cooperation, and to a large extent it is the focus of equal policy, especially welfare and cooperation that promotes the rights of the citizens of the North countries. The Northern Council, which took place in Harpa in October, was no different from that of a council. We discussed the ideas of co-editors on increased international cooperation in the environment, the launch of the Northern countries as the destination of tourists, the common objective of cultural and commercial life in a foreign market, and increased cooperation in security and foreign affairs. It provided and adopted suggestions for increased normatic cooperation in the battle against domestic violence, child abuse, and harassment of any kind as well as the suggestions for the well - being of the elderly, the protection against social subsidiary of the labour market, and the increased security of flying routes and the protection of personal information online so as to mention some of the grammatics to which the officers and officers received. This is especially the reason why international cooperation is important. That's why we have to keep the team together, not just a guard, but a guard. Thus, in spite of the conferences'annual talks on the importance of norse cooperation, their contributions to cooperation have been considerably reduced over the years. Such trends need to be reversed. The governments of the Northern countries need to be controlled to do better with their cooperation. The North countries will need to stand together in the storms of world events that have already given our part difficult work to deal with, as the examples already prove, in the form of the refugee problem. The North countries are to advance internationally under signs of united northern countries. We have an advantage to be careful, for unity is a strong priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u54	Madam President. I'd like to comment on this report by the Council of Iceland on the progress of the Norwegian cooperation last year. First, I would like to take up a discussion about the financial basis for this cooperation. In the past few years, as in other countries, savings have existed. From now on, the Swedes were the ones who required much action and even a direct cut-off, and when they let it stop Danr and have been in the lead of those who have actually insisted that the activities of the North American partnership were actually subtracted by a savings or maintenance requirement. It's been causing a few noodles, to be said in a mild way, for the past few years. I have been one of them after I came back to this table, and in fact, before, as a fellow minister for a time in replacements, who has opposed that trend. Happily, this year 2017, for the first time in a few years, it is not a requirement for direct cuts to maintain an actual level between years, but it is not talking about growth. The canal runs at 8-10%. The Norwegian budget for this year's price on the price of this year is some 924 million Danish dollars, but the price given to the same price was an average of 1,025 million in years before the beginning of this turmoil. So there are about 100 million dollars missing in the Norwegian budget so that it would have kept its real value from what was just a few years ago. This is not consistent with the general development of external cooperation, and this is not consistent with the long - term growth of the North American economy. Although it has certainly gone up and down, both in the country and elsewhere, in Finland, e.g. Now, it is, however, that in the long run and, on average, the North American economy is growing by the early 1980s, and those who do not provide convincing evidence that the value of the norse cooperation should naturally be fought to maintain their share. I strongly believe that, and I hope that as most of Iceland's part is with me, we should begin a fight for the Norwegian budget to develop in terms of cost growth in the general economy, which might be like a 1561.5% growth. These economic hardships have led to the development of all new assignments and all the new priorities that humans have wanted to adopt, and they have had to be at the expense of someone else, who has thus translated cuts in various of the nuclear fields of Norwegian cooperation. I allow me to believe that there is no information, except rather the contrary, that this is absolutely the will of the people of the north. To be honest, I think the public feeling in the North countries is that people think that the Norwegian cooperation and the Norwegian budget are much larger than they really are, because these are not very much money in the context of the northern and total self - control sectors. The largest economy in the world when it's put together. At that rate, this under a billion Danish dollars is not large numbers. But I hope that's a better look. Second, it has been understood and increasingly supported by promoting the political cooperation or political aspect of the Norwegian team, making it more alive, making further discussions also more relevant for political issues, even if there is some controversy. So clearly movement away from the direction that the Norwegian partnership should be primarily about what everyone agrees on and does not need much reasoning and not much political exchange. Instead, it is a dissident now and wishes that the Norwegian cooperation will become more alive as a political platform in which men can reason and address cases of controversial debates and cause them to perish in a democratic way. There is, of course, increasing discussions about foreign affairs, including even delicate foreign affairs, as the case in Palestine illustrates. It was decided in a way, and for a time, with at least a very successful payment on a proposal that had its beginning in the category of left socialist classes and robbers that the rest of the North countries followed the example of Iceland and Sweden and accepted Palestine as a free and sovereign state within the international borders. So it was possible to establish a legal case in which the main principles of sociad ecology, centerers, and left men, a relatively broad support and firm conclusion of the Northern Council, in which there is a somewhat milder witness to this example, and yet, when it serves the peace process and each record of time, recognizes independence and the sovereignty of Palestine. Among the most important areas in cooperation could be the workforce, which is for special coverage and observation by the Council of the Northern States. A special proponent or investigator has been given to the project, a longtime Danish statesman, to map out the development of labour markets in the north and the major challenges faced, including the extent to which the Norwegian labour market model, the three-sided contract, and the important role of the labour market members are under pressure from the European rights, etc. Health issues based on the Könberg report have also been discussed. It is in accordance with the opinion that the North countries have a lot to attend, that their cooperation in health care and health care is greatly enhanced. There are priorities, such as combating resistant bacteria, identifying rare diseases, and uniting their powers when it comes to all the most specialized kinds of medical treatments and equipment, and so on. Then, of course, it is the natural barrier, or it has been very long, one of the major issues of norse cooperation, i.e. making it easier and easier for people to travel between the states of the North countries, to live in different states, to study, and so on. It is a ongoing task, not only to eliminate existing obstacles but also to cope with new ones. It cannot be avoided to mention the strange situation that exists, since as a result of the refugee tides of new and very serious border barrier barriers within the Norwegian countries, such as the border patrol on the Eye Channel, or between Denmark and Sweden. Of course, this is the most embarrassing and embarrassing thing to do. Both Danir and Sweden are very sensitive when it comes to doing so. Nevertheless, it has now come to the conclusion that this issue will especially be on the agenda of an additional assembly that will be held in Norway this April, and it would be better for us to do so. What would be the point of a Northern Council and a Norwegian partnership if at least the situation that lies down there could not be discussed even if there were not enough agreements? Finally, because the time is over, the respectable president, I would say in my place and my assessment of the status of the Norwegian team after having observed it more and less and more continuously for about 30 years is that it is in a state of absolute good health. There are always challenges, but there are fewer voices if there are others now who really speak it down or have any pressing doubts about its existence. That's how I appreciate it. I think we can be okay with that, the people who believe we're Northlandists. As far as I'm concerned, there is no doubt in my mind as it has been said that Iceland is the most powerful cooperation and that we should consider it to be the core of our foreign policy to promote oriental cooperation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u55	Madam President. I'd like to get a little mixed up in this discussion just because I've been a part of this Norwegian partnership for three years, saying what has passed this term. What a joy that has been! I work within the so-called Environmental Committee of the Northern Country Council, now called the Sustainable Commission. It is a most enjoyable partnership there. I've been a spokesman for a group of lawsuits that are very connected to what is happening in our community, i.e. for the sustainability of tourism status and our joint efforts in this committee in trying to establish such a system in which the North countries would remember, in a manner similar to the environmental sign of the Swan that many people know, that it was being associated with tourism sites in a sustainable manner. Then it will not be avoided to mention that, for example, within our cooperation there are issues such as issues. The environment and now the refugee problem that will show us how certain groups of subjects are out of control, i.e. There are larger issues and extending across borders, and nationalities are having trouble solving them on their own and needing cooperation. I don't think there's anything more tangible in the world political bitch today and the fact that the refugee problem affects the cooperation of the northern countries, which has just been built up with great emphasis on freedom and free flows between borders where there is no border control. There are now specific walls that are now being built because countries do not solve these issues together, but each one in particular is concerned. It is among the things I discussed in my field in the middle of the Council of Northern America in January, at the beginning of this week, because the approach to these matters is often divided into two groups, those who want to solve the problems by building walls and letting those outside the walls think of themselves, and those approaching these tasks so that they realize that these are the common challenges of the world. Then I refer to a war effort that leads to the refugee problem and the environmental problem that confronts the entire world. It is clear to me that the nations must solve this together. How precious it is to be able to have such a territory as the Council of the North, where you can promote your views! Unfortunately, political developments have become such political groups as Venstre and Danish economists have adopted a policy that they previously thought was just part of the Danish Party. These include the decision to search out refugees and to explore their status before being given help that I find very unpleasant, and I thoroughly presented that view in my position at the Council of the Northern Nations this week. This is a lot of concern. I'd also like to mention something of great value in this cooperation, how this field would benefit from those members of the council who represented their councils at the Paris Climate Conference. What a joy it was to experience that the Norwegian commissions had a joint center at a special Norwegian barracks in the event of events, presentations, lectures, and informative talks from these countries! What a joy it was to be a part of it! The role of senators in negotiations on climate matters is not large during the discussion itself, but, of course, it will take over when any action or when the drafting of the agreements obtained there is to be made. In this regard, men have been able to adapt and bring common ideas. That, of course, is a cause for great joy. I want to see at the end of my speech that at the meeting of the Sustainable Council of the Northland at the beginning of this week, not to go to Kíningrad, which was one of the options in the state, but to discuss the issues of the sea, fish stocks, acidification of the sea, climate and also the situation towards Russia, at a special summer meeting in the Western Islands that I know will be a very pleasant meeting. No one will be betrayed by meeting in the Western Islands. I was very happy that we represented Iceland on the committee, me and you. paritaprevir Elín Hirst, I want to convince the members of the committee to come to Iceland and meet with us this summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u56	A respectable president. I present a report from the SE Parliament before 2015, the report is presented here on deck. 750. I refer to all the details, but I'm going to do a big skimming in Iceland's operations at the OSE Parliament. The Ozone Convention has gathered since 1990 when it was agreed that the European Security and Cooperation Agency, which operates on the basis of the Helsinki Convention since 1975, will receive this subsystem, i.e. Some structure of a formal field for members of Congress that meets regularly. The OSE Parliament and the National Security and Cooperation Organization are thus articles of the same hurt. The role of the SE Council is to influence policy and focus on the activities of the Safety and Cooperation Organization, to monitor and assess the results of the Agency's work. There has been some discussions at the SE Parliament on this role and seems to be to each about it and the results of that objective. I'm going to go into it later in my case. First, I'm going to go to the Iceland Department for a short time. She made some changes last year. During the early part of the year, the chief of Iceland's Department was Elsa Eardóttir, president of the Committee, who comes from the Special Assembly, Pétur late Blöndal of the United States of the United States, Elsa Leland, of the Independence Department, and Steingrímsson Steingfursson of the Council of Bjart. Blöndal Bögal fell from last summer, and took the place of his seat in the Iceland Department. At the same time, the branch reserves changed. The OSE Parliament gathers regularly for a meeting three times a year. There is usually a winter meeting in February, a annual meeting in summer, and a fall meeting in October. In addition, at least one meeting of the Northern and Baltic States is held. Last year there was one. I'm going to tell you a little bit about a meeting between the North and the Baltic States that was held last May. The meeting usually attends the head of the Iceland Department as well as the secretary. The main issues to be planned at that meeting were the latest developments in the SE Parliament and the preparation for the annual meeting, at which point two scholars discussed cooperation between the North and the Baltic States in the area of safety. However, regional conflicts were discussed in the Middle East and their impact on safety in Europe. The nature of the issue has been high in the field of SE as well as in other international institutions. The conference discussed the efforts of SE to distribute subjects in Ukraine. The head of Lithuanian branch did not think that it was enough, and he said that he wanted to see the Western countries strengthen Ukraine with weapons and work with the Ukrainian army. For various reasons, the directors of the Swedish and Finnish Churches said that this was very difficult, including corruption in Ukraine and the lack of experience there. It shows that the situation in Ukraine seems to be unique to whom. I'm going to step aside briefly to the winter council of the ÖSE Council held in Vienna last February, but this meeting was attended by the head of the Iceland Department, along with the Son of Guðmundur Steingrímsson. The main reason for this meeting was the SE response to the situation in Ukraine and the fight against terrorism in the SE region. There was also a discussion of cooperation to improve energy security and reduce environmental and economic challenges in the ESE region, and there were also the human rights of traveling and refugees. During the meeting, a special debate was held that included the subscription ▪ Teamwork to improve energy security and to reduce environmental and economic challenges in the SE region, to be met. Blöndal, a member of the Department of Iceland at the time, was not able to attend, but he was a special representative of the President of the ÖSE Parliament in the budget of ESE and was very concerned with the financial affairs of ESE. He sent the Commission a written report to this meeting of his work, where he repeated his criticism on the ZESE budget that he had regularly made for a few years, making a special comment on the COPE budget for 2015, including additional contributions to the OSE, Vienna office at the expense of a field office in separate countries. The Senate annual meeting was held in part in Helsinki. Its main objective was Russia's share in the Ukraine conflict, the Mediterranean refugee problem, the sexual abuse and the misuse of defenseless women and children, and the desperate need for improvement in the activities of SE. It was mainly a frequent meeting for this meeting that the European Parliament's Commission on visas to Finland was canceled by the European Parliament's embassy, a part of the Union's judicial action against Russia because of the involvement of Russia in the conflict in Ukraine. A meeting of the SE Parliament is held by one joint meeting of all members of the conference or members of the council, outside being met in three topic committees that work at the SE Parliament. The first is called on politics and security. One is referred to as economic, scientific, technology, and environmental. The third is democratic and human rights. During the annual meeting in Helsinki, these three topic committees made it a point to highlight the highlights of their annual meeting in Helsinki +40. In conclusion on government and security matters, Russia was encouraged to revise their resignation from a contract of standard European military forces and to respect its commitments according to the contract, as well as to cancel the INJECTION and the city of Sedastol. In conclusion on democratic and human rights matters, chronic persecution and imprisonment of journalists and protective human rights were condemned in some Member States of SE. Freedom of the press has been a little discussed in all of the Agency's meetings last year. There was also a concern about the disappearance of a number of government critics in the ESE area and a lack of information about them, calling after governments provided all possible information about the consequences of these individuals. In conclusions on the economic, scientific, technological, and environmental agreements, Member States were encouraged to continue working to reduce climate change and to negotiate with new international climate agreements with binding limits on greenhouse gas emissions to be adopted by the UN Climate Conference in Paris, which was subsequently conducted in December. The final meeting of the SE Council was held in Ulan Bator, Mongolia, October. From the OSE Council of Iceland, we attended a special meeting. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, and this is in addition to the secretary of the Iceland Department. The Fall Summit convention was divided into three parts by the topic of the committees, as I have previously described. In the first part, which belonged to the political and security dimension, there was a special focus on regional safety and the fight against terrorism and man-salter in the SE region. Then, as in the other two meetings of the council, the situation in Ukraine was especially under discussion. During this fall meeting, a special criticism of the Russian embassy was found, and the president of the lower branch of the Russian Parliament criticized the Finnish government's decision to deny Russia's delegations of visas for participating in the July 2015 annual meeting of the SE Parliament. The second part of the conference belonged to the economic and environmental system and was stressed by economic challenges, food security and the risk management of the ESE region. In these discussions, Russia's embargo against the West found the importance of free commerce, especially when it comes to food security. Was this to be the case if any states could guarantee long - term food security to their citizens without free trade with other countries. It was particularly critical that countries such as Russia prohibited the import of food from Europe and the United States because of the operation in Ukraine. In this regard it was specifically noted that Russia's commercial pressure was clearly contrary to the rules of the International Business Organization. Russia's representatives at the autumn conference were answered by Russia's forced attacks on the United States and the European Union. Thus, the Western countries are responsible for reducing safety and dissatisfaction with Russian import bans. This is interesting in view of the fact that Russia's representatives, in effect, recognized that Russia's commercial pressure against the West was actually a series of revenges due to the European Union, the United States, and other countries had previously been exposed to Russia. Such acts of revenge are specifically forbidden in the World Trade Organization's regulations. Finally, a third part of the autumn conference was dedicated to the media freedom of religion and universal human rights. Emphasis on the international problem of refugees and the need for more people than the Europeans to discuss the European problem. Along with the fall meeting, Iceland's department met with representatives of the Human Rights and Media Freedom Association in Mongolia. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímsson Steingrimurson led the Iceland Department on this part of the conference and gained insight into the situation in Mongolia, which is very interesting in view of the fact that Mongolia is one of the countries with relatively short democratic history and is still at work in that regard. A respectable president. I'm going to stop and refer to the report as it is available. But I wanted to mention it, too, because I mentioned it at the outset, that the alliance between the SE and the SE council has been criticized. There is a measure of willingness within the SE Council, especially among the Northern Parliaments, to take it more seriously and to further allow the SE to be applied in matters as well as in the role of the ASE Parliament towards the Agency. There's a plan that this year's work is going to be very difficult to increase this cooperation and increase the importance of the SE Council to the Agency itself. Under the report we, the council members of the Iceland Department, say so. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, president and w. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, vice president of the Iceland Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u57	Madam President. I'm happy to have a story here for the Iceland Department report... in the absence of my colleagues. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir, who has served the position of the president of the Iceland Department during this ideal period. Plus the two of us at the back. paritaprevir He also has a Ármannsson's son in the Iceland Department. It is safe to say that there has been a great degree of harmony within the group that has served for the Council of NATO. It matters with such a complex and delicate group of subjects as well as with a defense and security that it is successful. It's done, at least In Iceland. Congressers have been diligent in attending meetings that they have had the opportunity to establish in order to promote the opinions and attitudes of the Icelanders. Four meetings were also held in the local department to prepare a case at various conferences and councils. The NATO council has been at the people since 1954. It has been a site for members of the Member States of all NATO countries to discuss security and protection. Apart from the 28 countries involved in this, there are an increasing number of countries who were formerly members of the so - called Soviet block, the Eastern European states that have adopted other forms of government, one ten of which represent the NATO Council and four additional neutral European countries, i.e. Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, and Finland I'm not going to long ago to tear down any single conferences or meetings we've attended on behalf of the council. Rather, I'm going to report that in the year of the report, two cases have been best, the conditions in Ukraine, and the cooling communication between NATO and Russia following the Russian military action in Ukraine. The Response of the NATO Council to the indentation of Russia in the Crimea in the previous year, 2014, was very decisive. They were discussed at the council meetings and led to their decision at the spring meeting of the NATO Council in Budapest 2015 to dismiss the Russians from the position they had as secondary member states to the NATO Council. This is great news. In the years preceding, the Russians had taken a very active part in the council and had been reluctant to communicate their views. It is best to remember the magnitude of the pressure a man felt at in 2008 when the then president of Russia, Medvedev, came to a meeting with the head of the NATO states of Lisbon, where he delivered a message that was heard to preach a new vision and strongly wants Russia at that time to improve communication with the Western countries. In the years that followed, the Russian minister of foreign affairs was a frequent arous guest at the NATO Council. There, he maintained a measure of aggression for his people, but he was well accepted and actively participated in various discussions, such as this. of how the coalition at its time planned to set up missiles in Europe for protection. It was safe to say that the hearing of the Russian Foreign Minister was important and not only made him understand but also came to his opinions after the incident, at least increased understanding of that particular issue. The other was the most frequent case in the Middle East and the great refugee problem that arose after the first burst of the powder can be said to have been buried in the sand. I'm primarily going to tear down what is the common report of the three of us, but of course after events of our own attitude. It is no secret that I believe that the modern refugee problem in Europe is largely due to the decision made in 2003 on the common invasion of many countries in Iraq. When the United States and its military forces finally disappeared from it, it led to confusion in the country. A void was left behind. If there is something known from the history of international politics, it is in every place where empty ones come and fill them. As we have seen, this led to the literally taking over a large portion of that land, such as al-Qaeda. They also sent their T - shirts to Syria, who bore off the organizations that have caused the greatest terror in the Western world by atrocities, an organization known as the Islamic state. I prefer to call them Daesh like most people who aren't palaces under that alliance. Daesh could be classed as a brand of Arabic, and the use of that word on the alliance is sanctified because it is not to be given to those who call themselves Islamic State the right to abuse their name or names related to Islam. I believe that each time the name Islamic State is used, they are, in effect, under the power of those in authority there. It is my opinion that this operation since 2003 is largely responsible for what has happened to the refugees who have been streaming into Europe. These two cases, i.e. Russia and Ukraine and NATO, on the other hand, the refugee problem in the Middle East, have been the issue of which it can be said that there has been a resolution of discussions at most conferences and councils held by the NATO Council in 2015. In addition, there were other topics that were discussed. The NATO council is of little relevance to human nature. There have been extensive discussions of human rights. Similarly, the problem related to global warming, the climate, was taken into control. The past few years, when other matters have been published, have been less likely to be discussed, as we Icelanders have often promoted, regarding women, peace, and security in the spirit of the United Nations No. 1325. In itself, it is sad, but it was one of our fine managers. paritaprevir In one of her talks at those councils, Þórunn Egilsdóttir called attention. It included the importance of taking up such countries as Iceland when there were no others. This has been done very thoroughly by the Iceland Department in line with the foreign policy of the current government, but no less of the former government. In particular, Arctic products have been produced. A special report was made on the council. The Icelandic department made a very clear point of their attitude, which led, for example, to significant changes in the original design of this report with Norway's senators. Hv. paritaprevir In that case, Þórunn Egilsdóttir gave a strong and meaningful summary talk about the part of Iceland's foreign policy, which has led to the Arctic, and we both actively participated in discussions on that subject. It has been a part of these councils to break the view of Russia's dispute with NATO because of Ukraine. It is far too bad to say that the broad line lines of those who have attended the NATO Council had a strong convergence. In the first place, there has been tremendous solid solid solidarity in protesting as hard as Russia can with regard to Ukraine. Now, it is as though they seem what they did there, yet one thing is absolutely certain that whatever they feel about the Russian historical claim to the Crimeagans does not change the fact that Russia broke international law to the extent that they crossed the border. It is a clear violation of international law, and it is important for one to break down against it. It's just as important that there are small countries like Iceland that are involved. We have made that observation quite clear. There has been harmony between us and the government's policy. Second, there has been a very interesting business discussion within the NATO Parliamentary Association, first of all, the commercial pressure that the Western powers, the European Union, and the United States followed the Ukraine conflict, and second, reactions and measures taken by the Russians since and after that. paritaprevir Sigríður Andersen, in the history of another report to the SE Council, could be defined as a different form of revenge, which it revealed as a violation of international law as well. What was particularly critical of the measures taken by the West powers was two. First, action was taken very quickly, and the matter had not been examined very closely before it was taken. I myself believe that it is highly defenceable to resort to commercial pressure to achieve political policies. But I also believe that it is necessary before they are taken into account that they know exactly what their goals are and under what circumstances the goals are to be met so that they are lifted. Neither one thought that many of them would address the issue in many parts of the Biblical Council found that the NATO was somewhat inaccessible. This is in reality no different from the discussions that have occurred many times, especially in the early part of the operation, within the Allied Foreign Affairs Committee. Second, evidence was presented that the Senate itself won in the power of expert knowledge and experts, which were in charge of the consequences of business pressure. You often see in the media, especially in the Anglo - Saxon world, that the commercial pressure has, in effect, led to a major impact on the economy of Russia. We can especially see now that data are being produced that indicate that there has certainly been a notable effect, but since the time of action, it was quite clear that the effects of the Russians'economics were mainly attributable to the decisions of those in Saudi Arabia's world market prices for oil. It was very difficult for those who handled these matters on the part of the council members who visited the NATO council last year to provide clear evidence that the operation had had been effective. For example, in one of three meetings I attended that the effect wasn't, I criticized it, that it seemed as far as the evidence was available, very large. I felt that if they were going to use their business pressure, they would have to do so with full force. I referred to the commercial pressure of Western countries, and particularly the United States used Iran for years and carried relatively small fruitage long. It was not until the international community promoted the international money sharing of the Irish, i.e. The short-term communication system is SWIFT shut down and unscrewed all the routes of the Iran so that they can distribute money in and out of the country, e.g. through an Indian bank, adding much punishment, the methods that led to some consequences. In the case of the Irish, we saw what this eventually led to. As a result, the Irish were pressured into the bargaining table for their nuclear industrialization strategy. This has led to a good conclusion that I believe to be a good decision to all, to the Americans, to the West, to the United States, and to the Middle East, because the agreement on nuclearization will lead to greater economic growth and contribute to peace in that area. I was constantly following what led to, since the NATO's data indicated that the clients did not have the profound consequences of what they wanted but were much more symbolic of Western solidarity that people did not go the same way as they did to Iran and also screwed to the money sharing system taught by SWIFT. The answer, however, was obvious. Although we sometimes talk about Russia as an isolated state under President Pútín of Russia, Russia is so integrated in the international business system that by going so far, it would have become like a boomerang and come back to the back of its people. It could be said that the conditions I described before, thinking that should be the basis for business pressures, that it was a goal and, in time, what should be done with the Minsk Convention, where there is a definition of the conditions to ease the compression. So recently we have seen news about it, vaguely, indicating that later this year, business pressure may be lifted. I've spent so much of my speech on this, because the business pressure and their consequences really built up in Iceland. In fact, we saw this happen in a very number of countries where organizations and conglomerates strongly objected because of the pressures that protected direct interests. I remember that two countries had a strong demand for improvements from the international community, mostly the European Union, in order to improve the consequences of the interracial ban when Russia took over. Finland and Poland, on the other hand, Finnar has 1.3% and 1.8% of the export value value for trade to Russia, respectively. It was the damage they suffered, and it was perhaps the most separate from the natural Baltic States. Then there were one of five or six states that were very unhappy with the forced action. Thus, one of them, Greece, literally threatened to use the force of denial. Finally, though, it was as if all were in a way that was in harmony with their material needs. At the end of my talk, I'd like to say that, of course, people always have to weigh how they use business pressure. While it certainly needs to assess the short - term interest of the countries themselves in the business sector, it must not forget the long - term interest, the importance of being involved in such measures, and the importance of not doing so. I believe that in the situation Iceland was very difficult for us to keep out of these measures. I believe that in the long run, in view of the interests of an unarmed nation, it was very important to break down an international law. It doesn't matter that it's my personal opinion to consult with the Council on this matter has been very involved, especially in the early part of this scenario.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u58	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an interesting talk, including the covert on business pressure and the opinion. At the end of his talk, a member of that body of elders spoke as he himself did. Hv. A senator started by talking about a lot of harmony, complete harmony in the National Institute of NATO and, of course, it's a pleasure if you agree, but I'd like to ask. A senator in what harmony he describes, on what basis it is. [[Up front.]] Is it a sign that Iceland's department is all, and that it is a firm and critical supportist of the activities of NATO? Is that the foundation of harmony? Or is the basis for harmony that the Iceland Department is united in some form of criticism that she has claimed there? Second of all, the problem was no more. A senator who became colder in love with NATO and Russia and gave these two big cases that would have been the focus of the discussion, i.e. Ukraine and Crime, on the other hand, the refugee problem. As for the refugee problem, I wholeheartedly agree. A senator to the roots of the Middle East, and today he is most in the limelight, with the exception of the dispute between Israel and Palestine, i.e. The situation in Iraq and Syria is abducted there. The responsibility of the Western world and, above all, of the United States is high. But can it not be said that the same is also true in some respects of Ukraine? What does it say? A senator of that? Was it not so that in the mix of European Unions of some people in Kiev and Maidan revolution, and when the prime president, despite all that, Janúkóvítsj, he will have promised, was driven from power, left a measure of vacuum, or created an inequities and instability? [[The president calls.]] He said, however, that no one I am a fan of this man, Janúkóvítsj.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u59	Madam President. I'm amazed. A senator is not to be informed of his joy over the fact that there is harmony in this group. First, it is emphasized before reason. A senator that the NATO Council has no control over the actual implementation of NATO on his decisions. From the beginning, representatives of the council are serving as members of the Parliament, in turn, to promote the consultation and cooperation of the National Parliament, to provide information on aspects of security and protection. It is quite clear that many of the things that NATO has done will come to the fore, although it is certainly not possible to disseminate the events of the past year. I recall the time when I sat there during a series of world weapons, including the year 2007. In the name of NATO, it was under attack at the councils of NATO. The cohesiveness as long as the wind. A senator will come in after me, for example. When the members of Parliament brought their case to NATO meetings and conferences, where these disputes and embargos were being discussed. It was on our part that they reigned, i.e. They weren't arguing, there weren't different opinions about it. Although I've been cynical in the implementation of the clients and lack of agreement with the State Department, especially in the early part of the matter, and what I am in the foreign committee has called a lack of vigilance and preparation on the part of the Icelandic Commission, I felt that with the long-term interest in Iceland would be guided by this. Then I answer the question about Ukraine and Russia in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u60	Madam President. There's a misunderstanding. A senator that I am not glad to meet with members of the Council of Iceland at the NATO Council. I'm really happy that you did. Senators Egilsdóttir Egilsdótttir, Össur Skarphéðinsson, and Birgittir of the Ármannsson's son, get along well at this council in Iceland because it's always a pleasure and a good thing for people to get along. As for my business pressure, I could certainly agree with that. A senator with regard to matters that lead him to do so. As I have often said, when these cases have been raised recently and the demands have been made that Iceland's client's policy on these topics, people would have been better aware of what they were going to do in the first place and have already put it to good use, deciding that they were willing to take the inconvenience and the loss that might lead to such measures. Of course, it's something you should try to do if they're going to a coven and not be like calves in spring, and jump to and dump this on, and go on some hero tours east of a Funeral Park, and then suddenly sit with the backland in an upset when it comes to the piece, and it's about to have an effect, a mutual negative effect as often as it would like to become with commercial pressure of such a kind, but especially if the economy lies close to each other and is a little involved in business. Of course, Europe realized that people can have all their opinions on Russians and their actions, but it doesn't change the fact that people really buy all their gas from Russians, oil products, and are pretty dependent on them for raw goods and then other parties for exports, such as our friends Finnar, the Finnish agriculture, because they are now closed off by the Russian market. Otherwise, I eagerly wait for an answer. A senator with the second question about whether the Western, United States, the European Union, may be somewhat responsible for the situation in Ukraine too, as we would agree that they do regarding the situation in Iraq and Syria. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u61	Madam President. It is possible that the European Union and the United States did not play it well at first. It is possible that there was overcrowding Ukraine's expectations for a future that may have been very difficult to create in a way that apparently was drawing up within Ukraine. I'd love to hear it for myself. A senator with great knowledge of these matters explains more fully how he feels that the European Union and after events by other Western countries are responsible for the rise of these disputes. I'll wait for my sentence on that lawsuit until I hear it. The other is absolutely clear that no matter what has happened in East Ukraine, a part of Ukraine was taken and made up. The historical basis for this can be voiced by opinions. I have heard from these speaking views that are completely different from mine. It does not change the fact that no one has ever been able to demonstrate anything other than that international law has been broken. Under such circumstances, there is no other way for the international community to respond in some way. The way they reacted is then subject to criticism. Although I agree that a reaction was needed, I have followed my criticism of it. Hv. A senator was in a government where at least two decisions were made on foreign matters that could have an effect, on the one hand, in the state of Palestine and on the other, a free trade deal with China. At both times, the State Department of State made a risk assessment report that was considered to what it could possibly lead in dealing with other powerful countries. In this case it seems that the decision was completely blind without realizing that it was possible and even very likely that the Russians would somehow object, just as they did from the beginning with other nations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the clear report presented here. Hv. A senator is well - known to speak human language. I think his popularity as a politician is now dedicated because he has spoken human language and has become quite popular so far beyond perhaps his popularity at the council. That is why I would like to make comments about his use of words when he spoke of Western commerce against Russia because of the situation in the Crimea. I want to know what it is. A senator cannot agree with me that the activities of the West to Russia are essentially quite different from the measures taken by Russia. The European Union, the United States, Canada, New Zealand, and other countries were not partially opposed to the public in Russia but were decisive action against specific factors and specific individuals with evidence of their involvement in illegal activities. What was involved in business was a very specific feature of the Russian government business, including the U.S. with spoils, weapons and so on. I make significant comments when people talk about these measures in Western society as forced measures, or even some sort of control of business freedom. That is not the case. I'm asking why. A senator can agree with this and recognize that this was a very specific form of criminal action.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u63	Madam President. I agree with what happened. A senator says that this is a different kind of action and nature. I used the word "traveling " to Russia because that is the way it is referred to in a measured language. By permission of the highest power, the English translation. The general opinion of the President, the U.S. business pressure, is that of the day - to - day president of the United States. It's the words that the European Commission has used to apply to this and that's why I use it. But, hey. A senator may have noticed that I called Russia's campaigns counterwarms, including the U.S. Because I don't want to drop these actions under the same hat. They are different. A senator said. What I was criticizing, however, was that whatever they call it, whether it's a series of revenges, a violation of international law, or anything else, almost every sane person could assume that it would be time for the Russians to consider counter measures. This was not the case in Iceland. Iceland had the second orders to take them. There is a definite explanation for what might include. has been moved off the edge of the storm. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason is subject to a position within the country of Russia himself. That doesn't change the fact that it was right for me to take part in this action on the part of the West, but I don't think their preparations here in the country were good enough. But I haven't been hitting the top. Minister of foreign affairs because I have not considered it appropriate to discover that there was some controversy about how these measures were carried out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u64	A respectable president. I think it is very important that people do not call it the same names, Russia's business pressures, which are particularly against the people in Russia, but also against the free trades between countries and Western penalties against Russia. Hv. A senator mentioned this to be known as the ◯trade of events in English, in fact, that is not true. In English, with the permission of the president, there is a reference to ◯sanctions, or ◯restrictive measures, which are forced measures. I think it's very important that the politicians and the government in this country make a clear distinction. For my part, I'm completely opposed to business pressure or any kind of restrictions on freedom of business. I can take as an example the U.S. embargo for decades to Cuba, who has not served any purpose other than extending the unprecedented situation there. On the other hand, when people see such a shameless violation of international law and human rights violations as stated by Russia in Ukraine, I believe it is reasonable to believe that democracy will take some action. And that's not true. Senator, there's no new word that Iceland is involved in this kind of operation? The Department of State Department website lists all the forced operations, as is called where Iceland has participated in a number of countries. Iran has been mentioned before. Here's Myanmar, Somalia, Ukraine is there in particular. Eritrea, freezing money. The precise definition of these actions is given here. Not in any case, these measures focus on public citizens or voluntary transactions through the commercial products and services of the usual kind, but on very limited factors involved in the abuse of criminals in the respective countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u65	Here comes the former chess champion, Garrí Kasparov. He was here to see a foreign press committee. It was before what it was. A senator sat there. He accurately described what would have to be done to the Russians if it should matter. The conclusion of his case and of what he stressed and, in fact, had to be torn in a number of sharp branches, was that it had to be done far deeper than what humans were discussing and making decisions at the early stages of this matter. So basically, I disagree with what I thought was wrong. In the first part of his answer, a senator withdraws materially in the second part, i.e. It would be contrary to the efforts of commercial and commercial pressure to achieve political goals. [[Up front.]] I'm of the opinion that it is completely justified, and I point to the classic thing that she has, of course, heard a thousand times. What broke the back of apartheid in South Africa back in its time was economic and investment pressure. I think it's perfectly clear. Yeah, you're right about what you're talking about. A senator said that it was a daily matter in the State Department during the last term and may still be signed under regulations that included some kind of criminal action against those states and much more. A senator mentioned earlier. I'm afraid if you look, for example. how the Norwegians responded immediately and again, they can be clearly identified by how they identified the situation, drew conclusions, and responded to it on their exports. They had already won their markets in Europe and had prepared long before it became apparent in Icelandic politics that they might be taken for granted. A senator has defined a way of taking revenge. [[The president calls.]] But it is reasonable to say that every sane person should have been able to recognize that possibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u66	Madam President. I'm not going to try too hard on the vice president of the National Council of NATO. paritaprevir Acquisitions of Össur's Skarphéðinsson, taking an extended discussion on this report, but sharp. A member of the United States expressed a measure of interest in our discussion of the root causes of the situation in Ukraine and in the Crimeaganum that has been there. I'm not going to completely avoid it without pretending to be any special expert on that subject, but, of course, you've observed these events, as you probably have expected most interested in international affairs. I had some knowledge of the situation in this area when I was at the Council of Europe in Strasbourg and the affairs of this area, Ukraine including, did not mention the state of human rights in Berenchland. At one time, Júlía Tímósjenkó great wife approached the Council of Europe in connection with a discussion of the issues and a report that was then available for the council on the status of the cases in Ukraine, etc. In various ways, these events are complex both historical and political, and there are conflicting views on them. However, concerning Crime, it has to be recognized that there is no fully black and white picture that can be seen in historical situations, as well as demographic situations. As is well known, Crime was a part of Russia and the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union for hundreds of years, and it was moved to Ukraine for no hard time in history. Much of the population is Russian or Russian - speaking. It is true that there are minorities that you are deeply concerned about, but it is hardly possible, if the matter is taken into consideration in a national context, and people here are considering the legal and illegal measures, at least one national prerequisite must be met for self - determination of nations or ethnic offenses, and that the vast majority of the population in this area, I don't think they'll be divided, would rather be part of Russia than if they are forced to choose there, if any such circumstances arise. Some election took place there. They also have this historical appeal. Then there is the question of what stand people take when the issue comes to a conflict between national rights in the sense that there is to be an accepted border for some historical reason, even if it is just a few decades back, and so on, that under such circumstances, the inhabitants have a right of self - determination. It is a clear violation of international law. It's best to leave it to the jurists, and the National Rights Department, to take a big part in that subject, I'm not going to be a great wise man of it. But I have to say exactly as I am, maybe I can. A senator, vice president of the National Council of NATO, helped us in this regard, that I have only wondered about it, and sometimes asked: What is the difference between accepting independence in Kyoto and accepting independence or self - determination, de facto independence, in the form of the self - determination rights of the people of Crime? Who is he? If it was just a matter of fact, and it was not a violation of any international law to accept Kosovo at the time, what is the situation when it is the time for Crime? However, regarding the conduct of the Russians in general and their intervention in the eastern Ukraine, I believe there is no doubt that there is a violation of international law. They are underfooting the independence of Ukraine as a state by its intervention in the east regions of Ukraine. Under that, I can certainly take it. I find that in many ways less valid reason to wave some criminal at them. I don't think there is a question at all, although trying to hide it in various ways, it's not just Russia but it's the Russian army or Russian special forces, in various forms of disguises, to get involved directly in the conflict. They have taken their stand and have taken part in matters within the borders of another independent state. It cannot be overlooked, for it is an unscrupulous violation of international law to any such intervention from anywhere else. They have, for example, been lacking elsewhere, even though they have become so familiar with what they are doing. About the lead to what happened at the Maidan Square, I'm not the expert either, but at least I've read something about it. There are some strong stories about the fact that from outside the world, it was introduced not only by creating unrealistic expectations but also by more than that. Men have just been in the country and waved out to people that they could get a quick part in the European Union, even NATO, if they got rid of the government that was hostile toward the east. Of course, this is a very dangerous and indiscriminate mismanagement, and the same old scandalous mistake, to imagine that only a person can control progress in a faraway land under complex circumstances, I do not speak of what is well - known, and I have been in Ukraine that the land is very divided in these materials. It's very split between those looking west and wanting to connect with Western Europe a stronger bond and the tameds, looking for cooperation with Russia and cooperation in that direction. It has cultural roots, language and commercial roots, and so on. They should have been able to tell themselves that it was not simply a matter of intentioning to seize influence over the progress there. Would it not have been more cruel than trying to have the Ukrainians figure out what they were about to do than to begin directly promoting the tide of bloody conflict and the land split more and less on this foundation? As a result of these events. I make it clear as I have said in the past that I am no fan of the governments that were there. But it seems to me now that there's nothing particularly money behind some of the forces that got to power in the Maidan Revolution. Fascist and racist views abound there. You can debate who's more money than you are. The conclusion is as often as it was before that a person should think more deeply about what he is going to do when he intends to take part in individual or regional matters. I'm gonna make this fistula do what I'm going to do when I wish. paritaprevir Dozens of Skarphéðinsson's son to go deeper in the discussion of this matter, which led to an initial debate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u67	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for deepening at least my understanding of his attitude on these matters. I must agree with him that I do not view him or myself as an expert, especially on the implications of this series of events. I think that I can also agree that there was an extracurricular situation in which I recall here before him and another remarkable phone call that was leaked, and no one knows any sheet that was recorded, in the other end being my former colleague, Urmas Paet, who was at his time in Estonia, since he is in any confusion to describe the information he has received, which at the time we would have been doing. I don't trust myself to tell you where they came from. Did they come from the outside, as can be drawn conclusions from a future discussion? I don't trust myself to decide. Or they were from the ranks of them as a dog. A senator called Fascist Europe? It is quite ready that after the events in this square, such complements came among other categories, became part of the government. But what was their outcome in the election? They got 1 or 2%, disappeared, thrown away from the inhabitants of that land. I don't trust myself, either, in spite of particular historical assumptions and the shortness of the time of this order with Crime, to agree with the stand that took place. A senator is lifting up here. People have done so before in this discourse. I don't trust myself to do that. I believe there was a prince in the matter of Crime. It was a member of another state. [[The president calls.]] I don't trust myself to say anything about the way these elections were conducted, but I ask why. A senator: If he thinks there's any justice in it, is it not only the next step that in the Donbass region there will also be a vote for which the states govern and expect to come to the same conclusion? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does that mean that perhaps some of it goes down? Then will the same thing be done in Transnistria, Moldova? I could record more. You have to watch out for that sort of reasoning.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u68	Madam President. I was not giving up some particular view of what happened with Crime. I wasn't saying it was okay, I wasn't declaring any support to what the Russians did there. I referred to certain factors, historical and political factors, which still exist over which countries of this region have belonged to historically in the long run. It is after independent countries began to develop, and we began to watch some ◯land border, the natural monster has been a part of Russia much longer than Ukraine. Second, there is truly a greater part of the population of Russian or Russian - speaking people, and I don't think any doubt that their position was there. Are you just to admit that this is the way it should be, and you can go into Donbas or any other area and have it chosen as to what you want to do and look like the border doesn't matter? Of course they matter. But I asked a question I didn't get the answer, "What's the difference between Crom and Cosvo? " What about the national or national or cultural rights? If humans speak language, if they meet the main definitions of the national rights that are usually designed for self - determination, that is to have cultural empathy, to speak the same language, to live in a limited area where they are the dominant group, and that is, in turn, to be able to save themselves as such. I support the self - determination rights of national crime and those who meet these criteria. I support Baska, Catalonia, Scots, and I think they're the right people in these areas because they belong culturally to one another, live in a limited area, and have every ability to save themselves, if they want to, to become independent. I'm sure it affects me when I look at this position, but I wasn't justifying or claiming that what happened in Crime was okay and that it couldn't be a lawbreaker. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u69	Madam President. I like what you're doing. paritaprevir At the end of his talk earlier, J. Sigfússon's mask made it clear that he was not justifying what happened in Crime. That conclusion could be drawn from a previous talk. A senator's view that it would have been fulfilled, which can be said to be in the international rights to determine when it can be possible to break off state and to make an independent state or directly move within the ranks of another State. That's what happened there. If so, we cannot at least agree that even if we are in a bad situation. A senator says, and I don't exactly question it, that the more part did want it? But what solid evidence do we have that underscores it? Should we trust a vote that will not be used to monitor international institutions, as is usually in other lands? The election in Scotland, for example, bowed down to the monitoring of international institutions. That must be necessary. It is not surprising, then, that people ask the question, " Can you just keep going? ' I know that there will be a very different historical basis for the Donbas area in eastern Ukraine, but this doesn't change the fact that governments are in great opposition to Ukraine's government. It is very well arranged that a convention that is supported by Russia, has the means to look after themselves, is subject to a measure of custody there. Should we trust them in keeping such national laws? I don't think there's any way to discuss it on that basis. I believe that for countries such as Iceland, which is a small country, and for all small countries, people always have to break down when it comes to breaking national laws and regulations. [[The president calls.]] I noticed why. A senator spoke as if there were any doubt. [[The president calls.]] To me it's not a prince thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u70	Madam President. Of course, it is important, especially for the smaller countries, to be respected for international law, to follow it, and to dissociate a judicial decision in a grammatic way, not by force, etc. But it's also good for everyone to be equal to that law, as it were, not merely to be interpreted for good. Would not the superpowers at times have to examine themselves? And where is holiness when undisputed, for example, in the case of West Zoara, that they have the right to independence and have agreed to it, but men place the binoculars for decades? [[Up front.]] - Yeah, yeah. I think people must also face the fact that, of course, there are many conflicts between different princes between the court. The self - determination right is very important and important in international rights, in the national rights. True, he may at times deal with the interests of big countries who fear that they will be disintegrated, and he will bring up his rights. That's why everything you can do to get in the way the Madrid government now does with the Catalonias, etc. Finally, let us not forget that when we are speaking of the so - called sacred boundaries, many of them came into existence. Would it not also be the worm in the mouth when the colonies and the superpowers took up the map and drew it up, pulled a pen dash, and used a ruler to create an army, one of the causes of the instability in the Middle East, Asia, and elsewhere? I'm not going to be the subscriber of the super-power political bitch who has been leaving behind the scenes all over the earth. Then my attitude is simply that there is quite a question about how it should be viewed in the national sense. We can say that, in some respects, it is a gray area. I don't think I'm in a position to say neither that it was there nor that it was a gross violation of law. [[The president calls.]] I tend to believe it's in a very gray area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u71	A respectable president. I present a report by the head of the Northern Council on North Pole by 2015. We highlight the issues discussed at the Senate Committee. The Commission regularly stressed the environment and looked particularly at climate change in the area. Committeemen studied and later discussed a report on human evolution in the north, published at the end of 2014. Among other things, emphasis was placed on adjusting local communities in the light of changing circumstances that arise through climate change. The report points to the importance of understanding the needs of the people of the north, education, health, and economic situation. Every two years, the Council members of Congress hold a Arctic conference and held the first such convention in Reykjavík in 1993. During the conferences of the Parliamentary Committee, a large group of members of Parliaments and government experts, educational communities, and members of the international organisations converge on the affairs of the north. A major subject of the Parliamentary Committee is also following its approval of the conference, and this project was emphasized in the past year. The 11th conference held in Whitehorsse, Canada, in September 2014, made recommendations to governments in the Arctic, North Pole, and European institutions. Among other things, they called for increased efforts to reduce climate change and its consequences to Arctic residents. It was also called for support for the construction of communities, such as airports, harbors, highways, which support the development of tourism and the economy, as well as other environmental and sustainable activities. Then they were encouraged to examine the possibility of further binding agreements between the Arctic nations. The representatives of the Iceland Department stressed the importance of protecting the right of the North-Europe to use their resources in a sustainable way, the Commission's growth, the environment and the security and survival issues at sea. In this context, I would especially like to mention, sir, a respectable president, that the representatives of the Iceland Department are with me why. Senators Anna Sævarsdóttir and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir. Then we were included in the declaration of our focus on the right of the citizens for sustainable use of their resources. The importance of respecting the right of the indigenous people, their right to life and to their sustenance, in the area where they live, has a little crystalting in the discussion. One of the most important things in our minds and is the emphasis we entered into the agreement is that their right to sustainable use of the resources is recognized. It has borne out that it does not. This is revealed primarily to us in the trade of products from these nations, e.g. of the seal and the whale, have been forbidden. The social developments of these areas and the social problems that have come up with today and our Western culture have been deeply concerned. I believe that the resources that are being talked about and used to approach these problems are really not the best we can deal with, i.e. to try with social counseling and psychological treatment and more to adapt these fragments to what we know from our daily lives. I think it would be much better for us to try to build indigenous bodies in different areas in order to develop sustainable development of the resources present in these difficult areas in the community. Clearly, we do not do this by closing all markets and their potential for selling their products. We would do so by teaching them and bringing modern technology into practice in the fishing process and processing of these products so that they could become wanted around the world. This was the focus of what we spoke about, and we have generally seen good soil within the countries represented by the Council Committee on North Poles. Other points involved much of the opening of new shipping routes and safety issues at sea. That's something we've put great importance on, along with improvements in economic and life conditions in general in the north. The first conference and representatives of Arctic regions were held in Reykjavík in 1993, but several cooperations in the Arctic began when a plan for environmental protection was adopted in the north in Rovaniemim, Finland, in 1991. However, in 1993, the conference in Reykjavík opened up the formation of the Council Committee, which was formally set up in 1994. The committee is the chairman of the Parliamentary Conference on North Pole, held every two years, as I came in. The main objective of the Committee is to organise a Arctic conference, follow its approval and closely monitor the Arctic Council's activities. Iceland has served as the head of this committee once. Toward the end of Iceland's prehuman existence in 2004, a report on the effects of climate change in the Arctic region was published. The report is the first regional global study of climate change that has been published after the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. The report caught high attention in its time, and it has been used as a basis for an international discussion on northern climate change. In subsequent losses, the Arctic Council has done more work, not only to weigh and assess risks and factors, but also to look for ways to reduce pollution in the north and increase cooperation and commitment in the states. At the North Pole summit in Nuuk in May 2011, the first binding agreement for the search and survival of the Northern States was signed. The agreement is historic in that it is the first international agreement between the Northern Council of Union member countries. This report covers the order of the Iceland Department, but the chairman attends a meeting of members of the Parliament, or government, and then other representatives, or all of the European Parliament's emissaries, attend this conference held every two years. Three, in Washington, March 13, in Reykjavík, in May, and in Strasbourg in mid - December, were met by the Parliament's committee on North Pole in 2015. At the meeting held in Reykjavík, Stefán Haukur Jóhannesson, the Ministry of State, reviewed Iceland's policies on northern affairs, and the key conclusions of the Council's Conference of Arctic Congress held in Iqaluit 24 April 2015. Then he also published key points in Iceland's 2011 policy on northern issues adopted at the General Assembly. The policy aims to ensure Iceland's interest in the impacts of climate change, environment and resources, marine and social development, as well as to promote links and cooperation with other countries and stakeholders on regional issues. Hugi mind of Ólafsson, chairman of the North Pole's task force for protecting the pollution of the sea in the north, was reviewing the work group for which he is chairman. He pointed out that 70% of the defined Arctic region was a sea area and that the massive decline in ocean ice could lead to ice - free areas in the sea to some parts before the mid - century century C.E. At the former meeting, the commission was to invite representatives to a visit in Nesjavalla. I specifically mention it because people's experiences were from the way we used our country's energy resources to produce electricity and, as it were, to warm up our house was interesting. This brought us much attention, but as we know, the modern use of aquifers is taking on a global level. Icelandic scientists and engineers in many areas lead them to work because of our expertise in this subject. The workers on Hellishra are well designed and provide quality of life in the capital area unknown to these nations and ethnic groups in the north. Then I think about it when we were in Whitehorse, Canada, on the Yukon. We were in this town where there's about 15 of you. man, he's the size of Akureyri. It actually suggests between October and spring, and all is presented with oil and gas. Under these circumstances, you realize how well we have achieved the use of energy resources in this area when compared with areas that are in many ways comparable to living in Iceland. So it's a bit impressive that we should be in the controversy that is evident in this series of proceedings. In this area in Whitehorse, Canada, it did not have to go far out of town to find hot, hot springs coming up from the ground. I know that now people are looking at it because of their visit to our plant what you can do in this area for the people who live there. Last meeting was in Strassburg in mid - December. At that meeting, he went for it. paritaprevir Vice President Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir. Among other things, it highlighted the challenge that we face with the increasing stream of tourism that enters the delicate areas of our beautiful land and the challenges of small rural areas facing this growing stream of tourism, saying that our natural environment needs to be dealt specifically with and maintained by sustainable guidance. It also reviewed the remarkable international conference that is held here each year for the future of the Arctic Circle, held in Reykjavík, Hörpu 16,⇩18. October and over 1,800 guests from over 50 countries attended. This report has done much about these activities and the history of the Senate Committee, but I have studied the main, dignified president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-28-69.u72	A respectable president. We've been hearing the report of the Iceland Parliamentary Conference on North Pole, and thank you very much for that. It is a pleasure to read this report and to hear it from a subject. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son that the European Parliament has once again emphasized the environment, especially the northern climate change. It is a pleasure to see that the committee provides a report on human life in the north, with the emphasis on adaptation in changing circumstances and the importance of understanding the needs of people in the northern regions of education, health, and economics. I would like to add to that list of cultures, which is why I would say. A senator for the need for indigenous technology in the north to promote international possibilities. I don't think there's any less reason to respect and protect employment in these communities. In communities such as Greenland, men have, e.g. choice of technology progress, but also prefer to promote your own special status and sector, and make it a quality product, and can be used to achieve their products on the basis of that special status. There is also reason to agree with the 2014 Council of Parliamentary Congress that calls for increased efforts to reduce climate change and its consequences to the inhabitants of the Arctic. This declaration also calls for support for the development of international infrastructure in the north, such as airports, harbors, and highways that support the development of employment, especially local tourism and economy, as well as other environmentally friendly and sustainable activities. At the same time, it is absolutely necessary to protect the right of the population of the north to use their resources in a sustainable way, to promote the Arctic Council, the environment, and the marine rescue. This went over why. The senator's fine. These are all policies that have been fought for many years and that have continued to exist for some time. The fact is, the Arctic change is much faster than anyone expected to be just a few years ago. The forecasts published in 2004 in the Arctic Climate Copyright Assessment, which provided the basis for all the discussions on northern issues and the climate change there, showed that the temperature in the Arctic usually rose twice as fast as in other parts of the world. Now we see changes that have gone beyond that forecast, changes that are rapid. Substitution has led to increased activity in the region, which once again affects the environment and encourages further changes. North countries also have resources below the bottom of the ocean and the earth that big nations see. In the sea are living stocks, sheltered fishing grounds, whales, and sells on which the coastal countries build their produce, and all of this has made it clear how much is at stake for the ecosystems and economics of the North Sea that they take to the earth carefully and by means of research and management. This has also led to more and more countries, institutions and organizations, seeking to share in the quality and potential of the north through resource use, especially in the eyes. As I did in my speech earlier today on northern society, the politics have become overcrowding with the states as the superpowers make more of the current states of the Arctic. Great nations have defined the Arctic as a militaryly important and military presence. Similarly, other nations have seen reason to reprove their sovereignty and their usefulness interests. Then the North countries must take their place and protect their interests and status of agreement with the outside world. It is, therefore, really more important than ever to promote and improve the cooperation of the North countries in the northern and national environmental safety areas and to increase and promote the Arctic community as such. In this regard, it is especially important to consider the so - called five - state cooperation of Arctic languages, which is one example of how government matters are in a way threatened with national cooperation in the affairs of the north, where Canada, the United States, Russia, Denmark, and Norway have formed their territory of consultation, with the exception of the Icelanders, Swía, Find, and the indigenous groups. Then, side by side with this scene, the Arctic Council operates. It includes all eight northern states, and it also has its representatives, and many others. It is important and has been in our opinion for some time to support the cooperation of the Arctic Council. We view it as the scene in which a consultation with the nations should take place. It is obvious that the coastal nations, and especially those of Iceland and the indigenous nations, depend heavily on this, and we Iceland's interests are, of course, closely linked to both transport to and from the country and resource use, such as fishing. It seems that Iceland, the 17th largest fishing nation in the world, has a requirement to land and sea in the north of the Arctic Circle, must be concerned about this five-country partnership where we have no place. Although U.S. Papp Robert Papi claims that the United States and Russia are not affected by the cooperation within the Arctic Council, tensions and suspicions in national relations have not increased. But anyway, it is important for us Icelanders to be turned aside from power politics in this category so enormous that the environmental changes are taking place. It is even more important to expand the international work of research and monitoring in the region, so the future decisions are based on scientific knowledge. In fact, I miss the fact that there is little discussion about this aspect of the matter, but in the chapter on the focus of northern affairs, on page 20. 6 points to policies that occurred immediately in 2011. These policies aim to ensure Iceland's interest in the impacts of climate change, environment and resources, marine and communication development, as well as improve relationships and cooperation with other countries and stakeholders on environmental issues. The policy includes promoting the Arctic Council as the most important meeting point on northern issues, securing Iceland's position as a coastal state in the region, and building on the United Nations Sea rights Convention on the legal curative solution of national intelligence. The need for these policies was great when it was set in time, and we need them, of course, but we need to focus more and more on our research and scientific cooperation. We have a great deal of interest in having a real influence on the development of events in the future, but we are no less likely to depend on how the decision - making process is carried out and on what it is building, i.e. whether it is based on hard interest care and power politics or whether it is based on knowledgeable foundations. A respectable president. I believe Iceland and I are required to have a prelude to further research, monitoring, and scientific cooperation in the north. Today, some 4 million people live in a region that has been defined as northern lands. It is very important to identify the needs of these communities, the needs of education, health, economic needs, etc., as well as to promote environmental monitoring and research on ecosystems so that future decisions will be made on the issues of this region are based on real knowledge and science. I reiterate, my honored President, that we should have a way of doing this and be responsible for the affairs of the north on the basis of professionalism, knowledge and responsible environmental policies, for our survival and future may be subject to it. [[The president calls.]]
