ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u1	There have been two letters from the Ministry of Health requesting deadlines to give written answers to the application. 765, the rules of real estate unions, of Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bjornólfjörðurdóttir and for the icicle inquiry. 786, on committees, groups, and projects, from Birks Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. The President has also received a letter from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for every request to provide a written answer to a request for this request. 783, on committees, groups, and projects, from Birks Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Industrial and Business Minister, Environment and Resource Minister and Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u3	A respectable president. In Iceland, we have enjoyed the quality that there has been an agreement on a firm general minimum wage set in collective agreements that bind the entire labour market. There is a lot of value in this community structure, and that is why it is a huge concern when we see that Rio Tinto Alcan is breaking up the solidarity that has been about these main points of the Icelandic labour market, refusing to offer the ideals that the European Union of employment has generally offered to its employees, and to take up the struggles with its employees who have shown both endurance and indelib devotion to the company for decades. Tonight, the employee's export order, which is an emergency bread, begins to try to force the company to the table of the contract. The Society intends to consult Socialism, and it appears that national managers of the company are totally unaffected and orders come from these foreign capitals about this tragic march in this country. The company is about to resign from the rest of us and must suffer the consequences. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What does he think is a natural response from the government? SEKS is in an upset state of mind if business partners are not counting on themselves to offer comparable compensations to other companies in the SA. This firm has enjoyed a wide variety of budgets in the past and now does not consider the hospitality of the Icelandic government as far as it can be seen from this march. I'm calling for the highest. Prime Minister of this march, extend protest to the company, protest to the sector's activities, and demand that we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the People's Union, that the place be a guardian of the principles and correct guidelines of the labour market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u4	A respectable president. This question is why. A senator is very easy to answer. Of course, I expect all my companies to respect negotiations and laws. That is equal to the company he brings here and anyone else. So the answer is simple and clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u5	A respectable president. I'm celebrating the short answer to the highest. Still, the prime minister asked him to make further an appeal. The company hides behind the fact that all they do is negotiate with them. It violates decades of practice at the Icelandic labour market, preventing SALEK meeting to the highest level. The prime minister has praised himself for what he can do. Very much. Prime Minister will take it up with the company's leaders, handle the situation with the sector's activities, and protest the government's protests to this march?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u6	A respectable president. I'm not sure I'll discuss this with the manager of this company. However, it is normal to discuss this with the executives of the Association for Employment and, in fact, the employee movement as well. We in this government meet with these parties regularly, and such matters are there for discussion. I believe that's the right place to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u7	A respectable president. I'd like to direct a inquiry to the highest level. Prime Minister of the current signed domestic agreements to enter the council. Once again, we seem to be facing the issue afterward. It was written by the highest. Prime Minister that he views the matter as already arranged. I just wanted to get into this business. It is unpleasant to feel that large policy issues are determined somewhere in a closed field without consultation with all stakeholders, without democratic discussion at the council, etc. I don't feel exemplary, and I don't like the light and open discussion that everyone in the community now demands when we are until the 21st century. Icelandic agriculture is near the heart of all of us Icelanders. He's not a matter of private interest to the Department of Farmers and the Department of Agriculture. On the contrary, in the country or in the Melins, we are scattered by something that matters to us all, whether we live on land or in the capital area. This would have been a welcome opportunity to take the entire discussion together, but it would not have been an opportunity for us to be part of an artist's prize or a arms contract. It would have been a great opportunity to have a bigger solidarity. I would like to direct that inquiry to the highest level. The prime minister whether he agrees that such large policy decisions that tie our hands even more years and more terms into the future should be made on a more open and broader basis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u8	A respectable president. It is negotiated with most of the country's classes for purchases, terms, and employment without any men making it from the IIlium of speech. However, the council will have the opportunity to discuss these matters, and I will agree with them. A senator, hopefully that discussion will be colored by a joint discussion on the importance of agriculture, such as cognition. A senator hinted at earlier. We must, all of us or most of us at our assembly, want to protect this country's production of food and to live in the United States for over 1,100 years and that we can maintain this family structure that has been the foundation of food production in the country. It would be very unnatural if we were to start taking out one class in particular and to argue over her purchases and ideals and positions in this platform and negotiate with everyone else somewhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u9	A respectable president. Here I think it would have been such a good opportunity to promote more agricultural reforms, to create a policy of increasing diversity in the food industry, to prevent, for example, the release of milk from competitive production, to look for innovation in the class, to see how it works for young people, to take up the glasses, etc. I miss it, there are some changes in the livestock contract that could have been so much stronger and that could have been done faster. In general, I think it's time for us to get out of the badass and high-priority habit to always make important and targeted decisions without a clear objective and without a democratic discussion, without us forming a prerogative policy. It may not be surprising that when people experience them over and over again, there is a determination to make decisions in a sort of back room where some stakeholders are allowed, not others involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u10	A respectable president. I don't think it's necessary to negotiate with farmers, especially in this context, talk about back rooms and stuff. This is not done when other classes are being negotiated, so when it comes to prayer, I don't think it's inappropriate for people to go to farmers in such a way and believe that they should be a cause for conflict or that they should be signed here or that they should be consigned here. With regard to these goals. I think that this is all the aims that were considered to be in the construction of these new agricultural contracts, which include extraordinary changes; all of them are changes aimed at achieving the improvement. A senator thought that it would be so important to attack. I hope so. A senator welcomes these changes when this is discussed here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u11	A respectable president. The network of the Environment and Resource Ministry is now under way some adjustments to the work protocols of the project management framework. This has been discussed a great deal, and after the last session of a frame plan carried out here in the Senate Hall, I felt that it was the highest. The Environment Minister would have made it clear that she would take position with the laws on the frame plan and the delicate and important tasks and tools that are structured. Now, one of the most important changes proposed by the Minister in his name on the Ministry's website is expected to be that the task management can take to reevaluate benefits that have already been classified into the Preservation Group of Frameworks in Framework 2. It is also available from the media and from what Land induction has left behind in this case that very firm wishes have been received from Landerization that it can be re-evaluated and that it can be called the Cold Age by changes in the lines that have sometimes been called toutilization. In response to the highest possible response. A minister to the media inquiry has shown that she or the Ministry had no special contact with land induction in leading to this change and in bringing this proposal to mind. This is not in line with what has been reported in the media as a result of Land Protection Report on that communication, it is stated that on August 17, 2015, Arnarson, director of national activation, went to a meeting of environmental ministers and asked that the rules be changed. He has provided the written and detailed message of this material. Now I want to ask the highest. Minister and ask her to determine what is the right thing in this matter. Clearly, the motion has come from the reefs of land activation, and the pressure is clearly from there, and the conclusion is clearly derived from land induction and the energy sector. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What is right about the threat of land activation?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u12	A respectable president. I appreciate the inquiry and repeat what I've said before, of course, I have a law on the task management of a framework, such as other law. I've been thinking that I'm a good strategist of a frame plan and the project management that's working. It's very sensitive. It's like standing at a balanced angle, where a tough man jumps on his own axis, and you're trying to keep it in some balance. I think it doesn't matter which river they are, they're just as eager to try to upset this balance, and they don't have the mind of saving the frame, much like many others. sitting in this hall and being on the axis exactly at this time four years ago, whether this activation option or the other one should take out or hold. I haven't been involved in that kind of thing, I tell you exactly. I've thought I kept myself exactly in that a project management has its own peace to work, and I've had to stand on it pretty good and sometimes stamp my feet so that it can be worked that way. In June a month ago, during which a letter was sent to the project management that was spoken of as being under law, had then asked me for a subsequent meeting, and I thought it would be reasonable after summer vacation to discuss with the directors of Legionization, such as any who ask for a meeting at the Ministry. I don't sort people by where they came from, and of course they were just telling me what I knew they had received. Of course, I've also spoken and kept in touch with the manager of the project management, not others there, monthly meetings. I told the chairman of last summer that if he needed a further legal opinion, the Ministry would be more than willing to assist him in such a legal opinion as to the work of the project management. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u13	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. So the minister may have overlooked a meeting with the director of the Country Implementation Committee at the highest level. The minister listened to the comments of the National Revocation to Project Management Plan so that what is stated in the news period of February 14 is not correct, as Ministers do not claim to have had a special relationship with Contribution. All right. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Whether the comments and suggestions offered by Landic activation, which were primarily designed to reevaluate the Norwegian Age by the name of Kalälduvate, are primarily responsible for the change to the highest degree. The secretary proposes a Homepage for the Ministry. Second, I would like to ask the minister if there was a legal assessment that this change would pass a frame plan or go against it as I believe they would. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna ask the secretary if she thinks this is the goal of protecting the law and the task management of the Framework Programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u14	A respectable president. It is very easy, and it is very useful to wear hairs and make people's words suspicious. I stand to see that I have not followed any of the words of Landing. I also had a meeting with a protection meeting, so I'm calling it in Šforborfarten. There are a number of meetings at the Environment Ministry, and I'm not wrong with that, even though I listen to the leading members of the Landing House because the task programme is both for protection and use. It's these two aces, whether we like it or not, the two axes are, and I'm trying to keep the balance between them. At the beginning of the autumn of the month, many meetings were held on a job committee. I don't know any better than some people sitting on a pro board. There was quite a bit of it - many tips... [[Up front.]] At meetings I received from a professional committee - I did not sit there - there had come ideas about what needs to be considered. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] As a result of these committees at the General Assembly, it was considered normal for the Environment Ministry to review the procedure and that is now - a process where all could make their comments. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on the status and prospects of the government, especially in view of the fact that a considerable number of cases are going to take place despite the fact that many major matters have been arranged on the council program. But I was wondering what we hope for for the rest of our lives. We're going to go through the housing bills on which the SEKU is based a little bit. It's obvious that there's a slight tremor between the governments. I'd like to hear from the highest. Prime Minister what his experience is in this matter. At the same time, it seems to be a conflict between the government parties when it comes to the market agreements. I heard the highest. Ministers are already talking about the livestock contracts as pay or a vote. To me, that was a very interesting approach to farm contracts. There seems to be a ideological difference between the parties when it comes to these big issues. I'd like to hear from the highest. Prime Minister what he sees to it that the government will be brought along at the remainder of the council and whether there is no agreement on these matters in the government or how it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for describing his concerns and giving me a chance to, hopefully, reduce them. Things like that. A senator mentioned specifically, housing, and domestic agreements, although they will, of course, continue to work on the premises. This is an enormous issue that may have different emphasis on or differing viewpoints, would like to offer suggestions, and is intended for the work of the council. I hope it's as good as I can get it. The senator says that this is part of a collective agreement, and of course, no one has ever said anything else to me but that it was to be completed, until the government has made a commitment to do so. In addition, it is part of the common government policy, the government covenant, so that worrying about this matter is unnecessary. Senator. However, it is to make the most of the time at the council to discuss this and make the most of it. In terms of domestic contracts, I reiterate what I mentioned earlier that they are about job positions and status, farmers, but they are also about consumer interests. They focus on the fact that European consumers can purchase wholesome domestic quality products at competitive prices. In the past it was called consumers' grants, and it may be rather correct than the other, and as well as it matters to us for our economic reasons, it's saving currency and then there's so many other market agreements, I don't talk about these agricultural contracts, where it's moving forward and allowing the article to move even further, it's being negotiated with a large class rather than meet all the public population in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. The prime minister for an introductory answer and trying to reduce my anxiety, which may be said to have nearly succeeded. However, the agricultural agreements are not just purchases and prices. The hardware contracts are designed to contribute to the payment of a specific product. When I'm at the highest. The prime minister describes them when he actually described some of the farmers instead of expressing them in a way that would be normal for me and a body of Congress to stand in open agreements. It is worth considering how it is given, so that social class distinctions are not being made, depending on the case of farmers or citizens, and pay them out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u18	A respectable president. I totally agree with this. I'm not supposed to be discrimination in this regard, tax pay is spent on pay to a lot of major classes, nurses, police officers, teachers - I could count forever, respectable president. We spend our joint tax dollars, our community, to pay our pay, and that is actually a big part, probably most of the government's expenses. Because we have come to compare different groups of professions, all of whom have an important role in the community, for example, with health matters. The cost of health care between 2015 and 2016 is increased by probably 19 billion dollars. In other words, only the increase between years of age to health is about twice as much as any agricultural payment, 50% more, or as near as possible. This context may show that this enormously important article, an article that is relevant to all the people, is not an animal of particular importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u19	A respectable president. Why does prime minister say that the livestock contracts are over? Why does prime minister not want to discuss the market agreements? Wait. Is that not a 140 billion state spending? More than 1 billion. K. in every home? Or perhaps a prime minister does not want to discuss his contract because he knows it's a bad deal. Because this is a losing opportunity to improve the interests of farmers and consumers? Because this is a more expensive contract for long periods of time without achieving any system changes until the next decade at first. The prime minister of chess in the refuge that these are the wages of farmers. But, a respectable president, most of this money goes into interest on farmers and peddlers, not in their wages. It's simply wrong at the highest. Prime Minister that we do not discuss the salary of other classes here at the council, that it is unusual to speak in terms of one class here at the council. I don't know any better than we've been standing here all December talking about the interest of elderly people and poor people. As far as I know, the prime minister himself has arranged for a session here at the council even of the sailors on the Navy. So here are even the smallest groups ever discussed; colleges when they have a fight, the general labour market when it is. A respectable president. I'll find this statement at the highest. Prime Minister no place. That line of reasoning is by no means the same. The Prime Minister also has to tell us if this is not to be a democratic coverage, whether this calls for action on the budget that needs to be approved by more than one member of the council, whether it needs to make changes in agricultural laws that need to be agreed on by the majority of the council. The prime minister must tell us whether this animal and the long contract represent the system change that man promised. [[The president calls.]] Is this a stop to the eating system in the milk or not? Was it canceled at the last minute or not? Is the prime minister spending all this money to break out of the eating system or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u20	A respectable president. I didn't notice what happened. When we were discussing these matters, a senator was not in the hall earlier. At least he did not seem to have been listening to what it said. Besides, I didn't think so, like cot. A senator wanted to mean, that we didn't discuss chicken business at the Council. I simply said that men aren't negotiating with the castes here from the II Parliament's symposium. In fact, it was tried to point out, among other things a respectable senator, when he and his other associates wanted to do just that and then enter a negotiation here from this platform, actually on a completely different basis than now. It's very strange to hear what you're talking about. A senator should speak to one class, especially prayer, that they must not be consulted about their purchases and benefits and positions on the same grounds as those of other classes. He throws out some crazy talk. Well, already it's a good time. A senator has become the chairman of the committee, I encourage him to look out for moderation in the language, speak rationally, and speak well to farmers because farmers are... [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[Up front.]] A respectable president. What can I do -- Well, I don't want to be happy. paritaprevir There's more of Svavarsdóttir's trouble, we can't afford it, but what can I do to calm her? Can we go on? Yeah. I always rejoice when I find myself happy. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. It happens every once in a while, but where were we? [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[Set up at the Prefect School.]] Yeah, the head school. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The main entry is that, we can discuss it here in the cafeteria later, that, as the chairman of the company, it should be. Hjörvar Helgi
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u21	A respectable president. I hear the highest. The prime minister thought that I had been there to have had a cake under the discussion earlier. That wasn't the case, was it, chief? Prime Minister, I listened carefully to your words and don't need any special shoes in the way I talk about people. I try to talk nice about people, and I try to talk nice things about farmers too, because it's not about them. It's about whether you're gonna have a democratic discussion in one community about how you're gonna spend more than 1 billion. K. of each family in the country, about 140 billion contracts tied up for ten years, over two of the next total elections; that we discuss it, but we do not just say: Done and done. But I understand that the prime minister says that this new agricultural contract is over and settled because it is simply that this treasure is absolutely worthless. It simply does not achieve aims for improvement and improvement in the anti-vital and anti-vital agrienvironment schemes. [[The president calls.]] It's still a contract for the party, for the Communion Association, for the banks, for the desks and the interest bags. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u22	A respectable president. It is not now that the middle of the issue has been expressed that they consider these agreements to be for themselves. They complain that farmers, the people who make food for us, get too much share. So much for this interpretation. A senator can't resist an opinion any more than any of his comments here. I can't help but repeatedly surprise myself at the moment. A senator should believe that one class, farmers, should not enjoy the same rights as any other class in the community. When it is made up of other classes, is it not agreed that the cost of it will continue to increase rather than the rest? The cost increase is being severely restricted. Perhaps, rather, a respectable president, would say that farmers, among other things, because of attitudes such as this whale. A senator describes, does not use the same rights as any other class. However, new agricultural contracts are seeking to improve their employment status, enabling them to move forward, and this is beneficial to society.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u23	President. I will not be able to pay this suggestion my vote and will be on the red button in this particular case. I find it very important to know that persistent questions have not been answered, questions as well as questions. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónánsson, who had discussed this matter, wanted to draw attention to them so that members of the council can think only their own way. Why is the contribution of Iceland 30 times greater than Portugal to the population? Why are only 50 of the 200 member nations of the United Nations involved in the IFBA? Why does the United States, Canada, Mexico, Japan, Taiwan, Argentina, Morocco, and other countries not want to join? Why should Icelandic taxpayers set aside 2.3 billion to help with the release of Icelandic companies in Asia? Has any Icelandic company ever pushed the involvement of Iceland into an IFBA? I think it's very important that we keep this in mind when we vote on this matter here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u24	Mr. President. The questions raised by some who criticized this proposal at the time both here at the council and also on the State Department have been answered by my own. Let us realize that there is a particular conflict that has prevailed over who should be in the lead and have the greatest power in the international world that was formed by what the world looked like after World War II. There are some countries that have been growing rapidly and moving ahead for influence, such as China and certain Asian nations believe that their share is being placed overboard, such as the management of capitals that come from the World Bank. It is no secret that the Investigator is presented as a counterweight to that order. I think it's a positive thing. I believe this will lead to building up in the countries the bank is supposed to provide funds. What I'm going to do is, you know, if it's the best thing. The government will take the 500 million that we are told will be paid into the bank from development funds. I'm totally against it, and I'm going to leave all the rights to fight it if that's true. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, I would like to state quite clearly that I vote with this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u25	V.E.G. President. In the left movement, we may not be able to agree to this matter. There are some of the objectives of Iceland's foundership to the Asian Investment Bank, which we consider to be vague and even contradictory. And most importantly, I think it's extremely important that, however, the OECD, DMA development committee will consider these institutions to be something that will never be the result of reducing the traditional two - sided development teamwork between Iceland and other countries. So we won't be doing this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u26	A respectable president. I will vote against Iceland's approval and the agreement to be involved in this bank. The questions raised during the conference have not been fully answered, and I agree that there are some strange things to do with this. It is not clear what it will do for Icelanders to become members of a community bank on the other side of the world. I wondered if the government doesn't think there's enough stock in banks already and whether that's usually improved. It is 2.3 billion at a community bank at the same time, and it does not seem to be a factor in turning the Bank of America into a community bank because it will not make money. It is clear that this bank will not make any money, it will not be successful for an Icelandic job or Icelandic company outlet. Our products and our knowledge will sell if it is better and if it is better off than any other knowledge, it will not depend on whether we have 0.3% in this bank. [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna say no to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u27	A respectable president. I'm inclined to believe that this is a good thing. I'm not entirely convinced, and I'm not quite prepared to be responsible for its approval. But I think it's a good idea, and I hope it will be for building and development in countries where it is needed in a predictable future. However, I would also like to agree that it is extremely important not to have a negative impact on the development of developing cooperation, and it is important that, in time, we carefully monitor the development of the situation there and respond to events such as shock. 4th, including Reykv.. n.. I'm good at crossing over here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u28	A respectable president. In the United States alone, this bank, which is an Investigating Bank of Asia, also opens up opportunities or opportunities for an Icelandic company to participate in such activities and structure. The interiors are a very big concept, so they can be of many kinds. I'm mostly up here to make it clear that these funds are not expected to come off evolution money, I will not approve of that. It's a new kind of money that comes into it, and, actually, it's not been determined whether this money is available as money in evolutionary cooperation, but anyway, it's new in my opinion that it needs to come in, because we're not too well equipped with money in evolutionary terms as it is today, we're going to need to make a lot more money.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u29	A respectable president. I want to agree with others here. I want to say something special. Minister of state before the fact that this contribution will not be counted for development and will not cut off the amount of money going to support Iceland on the part. I will support this bill. I support Iceland's involvement in international cooperation. I think it's very important for a small country. In our foreign policy, we have stressed participation in international institutions, and especially when our closest partners and friends, such as the North and European countries, are involved, I feel that there is good reason for us to do the same. It can only be good for Iceland to be a participant, and beyond that, Iceland also has the advantage of the world's best interests. Even if our assignments are elsewhere, they will eventually be positive for us Icelanders. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u30	A respectable president. I'd like to back up and thank you for the good discussion that we had in mind. State Department. While we can, of course, work out exactly how this matter is being made and what hopes and expectations we have, I think the questions we discussed earlier have been answered. I think that was pretty clear. However, first and last, I wished to speak up in order to correct what has happened in the past, too, in the case of the highest court. Secretary of state. In the early discussion, I said that it was not based on financial support that would be taken from a capital that would otherwise be necessary for development. Whatever the case, whether this is a budget that can be counted for such projects or not, it was thought to be an additional but not a part of our contribution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u31	A respectable president. Few things are more risky than banks'business. Those of Iceland who have not learned this from 2008 may consider trying to learn some lesson from today's situation and especially from Asia. Anyway, I don't think it's the State's job to do a bank operation, either at home or away. That's why I vote against this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u32	I want to draw attention to the fact that there are some things that can go wrong with our involvement in this international cooperation. 150 countries have decided not to be in this bank. This bank will receive privileges in Iceland, which are unprecedented. He will be above the law and order, over the tax laws, over all the supervision of his operation on the land. He will receive an account at the Penitentiary Bank where he will be able to bring in money at will without anyone asking questions about the money and where it is going. It's against the law to hold his property. He's above Iceland's law. What I think is far more serious is that we're going into this with a small group of countries, 50 kingdoms of 200 have decided to join in. Canadians, Americans, Japanese, and other countries will not be included. While other European or Northern countries choose to take the risk of being involved in this, I don't think that this is something our country should be involved. Things can go wrong later. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u33	V.E.G. President. I asked for a special discussion at the highest. Secretary of State for increasing activity at the Cheflavour Airport, since we in the left green feel it is important that at the General Assembly, an open discussion of security and defense, a government policy when it comes to the area of protection at Keflavour Airport. Above all, it is important to discuss these matters in the context of international tensions. Earlier this month, reports from Stars and Strips, a newspaper and U.S. Army website, published by the U.S. Department of Defense, said that there was a planned increase in activity at Keflavour Airport. It has been reported that funding has been taken to make changes in the air cover for some 2,700 million people. K. A further report stated that this may be the first step towards the permanent presence of the U.S. Army in Cheflavík. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs has tried to minimize these news and, in fact, to belittle them. Give an answer to the media issue in a way that does not allow this to happen as before the military went on. But it is clear that there is a very wide gap between military bases with thousands of soldiers and current activity. The leaving of the army in 2006 made an agreement for the implementation of the existing defence agreement. Tells you the highest. A minister of foreign affairs may be a reason to make changes? It's no secret that many in the U.S. Army believe that Iceland would be more desirable than it is today. This was confirmed by Bob Work, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense, to form a visit to a country in September. In view of this, it is reported, of course, that the official military website should especially call attention to these reports and relate it to meditation on an increased event. While Icelandic officials do not report the matter, it is clear that someone in the Pentagon does. $2,700 million. K. is a lot of money and is no reason to minimize that amount. It is also reasonable to consider these plans in the context of the much larger preparations that the U.S. Army considered in Europe. The United States, Russia, and Britain are all renewing their nuclear weapons. NATO countries are working on the formation of missile control systems in Eastern Europe, which are obviously directed against Russians. The Russian army has promoted equipment in many of its naval stations, and several neighboring Russia's countries have set up rapid forces that may be called in disrepute in case of a conflict. So it all goes in the same direction. It's a high level of excitement and a arms race is starting in Europe. That's a lot of news. The objective of the planned changes to the mid-English shelters is that they can serve even larger and more efficient submarine search planes. Using more efficient aircraft, Russian subs need to be even more mobile on their cruises. The risk of riveration increases with the immediate risk of accidents that could lead to tragic consequences. V.E.G. President. We're supposed to be getting really close, not shoving our shoulders and acting like it's about the time of maintenance of an old fly. The government and, indeed, all political parties are to answer their will regarding the affairs of foreign armies in Iceland. Is that what it wants? Ministers for the U.S. Army to build even greater facilities than is available, to increase its activity and presence? Since the end of our mid - 2006 military base, we have seen an enormous increase in international flights through Keflavour Airport. Does this activity compare with increasing military activity? Similarly, in the United States, for example, in the field known as air space security exercises, you might ask yourself: " How are low - speed exercises compatible with the interests of the tourism industry, animal life, and nature protection? For us in the left green we will answer to that in order to increase our military activity in this country, not serving a positive purpose, but actually working against the security of the nation. According to our opinion, the construction of a military contractor on a centrally clean time error and that it would be more appropriate to consider the resignation of the defense agreement than to increase the urgency or presence of the military in Keflavík. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u34	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion because it is important to have regular security and protection issues from each situation. Now, many changes have taken place in Europe's environment and security since the fall of 2006. Terrorism has increased, Internet attacks are becoming more common, and Russia's incorporation into Crimea in 2014 was actually a turning point in Europe's history, when the border was changed with arms for the first time since the end of World War II. This changed picture has had its effect here in Iceland and in the north Atlantic Ocean, where increasing military activities, either in the air or on the womb, are still increasing. This is a special question for the increased presence of troops at Keflavík Airport. It has increased somewhat in recent years to the worsening prospects for security in our part of the world. Since 2008, the area of safety has been conducted at the Keflavor airport of regular air space protection on the part of the Atlantic Community. It takes place three times a year, and since 2017 it is scheduled to be four times a year, which was the first decision of NATO when the military left 2006. There have been routine training and the handling of various aircraft because of research, fuel intake, or maintenance and repair. There has been an increase in submarine search engines, especially from the United States, but from Canada in the last two to three years, which is rooted in the increased military activity of the Russian Northern Fleet located in the Kola Peninsula. In view of the changing European security situation, northern fleets are increasingly moving to the Atlantic Ocean, with the full reason to monitor the movements of these subs, including Iceland. Now our geographic situation, our defense agreement with the United States, and our participation in NATO and the situation that exists in the area of safety play an important role in this context. The submarine search machines that have been used recently in the news are called the P-8. They're taking over from an older kind of submarine search engine called P-3 that is being superseded. In order to get these P8 planes into the arctic bazaar shelter at the Chefavour Airport, you need to adjust the shield's fork and expand doors. Moreover, the floor of the veil needs to be reinforced and the seating of driving lines. As a result, the U.S. Navy has taken up over 21 million. $2.7 billion. Funding of the Defense Department for 2017, recently sent to the council by the President of the United States. This budget is designed to bring about the changes mentioned here and needs to be done on the cover, as well as the setting up of washing facilities for machines. I have been glad that the United States wants to reimburse this shelter, which strengthens the defenses of the country and NATO. There's no physical modification of the presence of troops at Keflavík Airport. In 2014, there were five to eight submarine search planes here for a total of 24 days of 165 subjects. In 2015, there were one to four submarine search engines, a total of four times at different times, with a total of 216 participants. This increased event is well within the frame of the defence agreement. No request has been received from the U.S. government for the local presence of troops at Keflavík Airport, and no discussion has taken place. There is also reason to believe that since 2006 the flight of Russian military planes in Iceland has been significant. Thus, Russian war machines have flown up to the United States 48 times during the 2006-2015 period with a total of 107 military machines. As they fly without identifying them, they can pose a risk for general air traffic, especially as a result of extensive air traffic between North America and Europe, near the country. Monitoring of Iceland's air space and air space management is therefore necessary in this respect. Mr. President. Our preaching work with the United States and the Atlantic Union is constantly being developed and needs to reflect landscapes in security at one time or another. Sadly, in recent years the bad side of our world has come to an end. Iceland is not an island in that sense, and we have our responsibilities and responsibilities as an alliance. However, once again, I would like to make a decision that there is no discussion about the ongoing presence of foreign troops in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u35	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Thanks to Árnadóttir Bárnadóttir for taking up this matter here. The view it interprets needs to be heard here in these sales. I also feel that she is right when she says that the western ocean is willing, within the U.S. government, to have more activity here. I think the Americans regret it and believe it's the wrong decision taken by Secretary Donald Rumsfeld to leave this place. Let us not forget what that separation was like. The Icelanders then felt that they had negotiations with the United States about what way the military would go when they received a letter telling them without letup that he had left. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear that there are clear regulations in the meeting laws we have made. The changes being made at Keflavour Airport take place entirely within the Annex to the two - sided defense agreement between Iceland and the United States in 2006. We have a somewhat strange defense policy, which is devoted to our being an armyless island nation that has neither the will nor the ability to carry out its own army. That's why we've taken care of our defenses and security by participating in international cooperation and international agreements. What's happening right now means mine knows within its bounds. However, I would like to say that the political agreement that was also made in 2006 has to be examined and updated, in some respects, because it has become out - of - date today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u36	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this discussion. It's important. As the news of these changes in Keflavík Airport set in motion, it raised a lot of talk in society that suggests that we need to discuss these matters more often at the council and just general. Iceland and I often talk about being an armyless nation, and we've been all along, yet there was a regular military force in Iceland for 40How many years. A great many rejoiced when the army left and rejoiced that we could live under the circumstances of not having an army. That's why I don't think it did much to many people when they heard the news, especially in this form, as a kind of spy from a non-country magazine, that there was a big change; or it was suggested that this might be the beginning of a great change. For good reason, we need to discuss this because despite the agreement made when the U.S. Army left here, about the air space guard and the situation of NATO at the Cheflavour Airport, it is very important that there is not a permanent military presence here, and it is important that there is wide debate over the changes made. Iceland's warfare is important and is closer to the heart of Icelanders. How sad it is to see an increase in military service in the world, and as for us Icelanders, let us not allow ourselves to be dragged into it as far as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u37	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion, but repeat what I've said before, that I don't consider anything in the United States alone, i.e. to improve shelters, raise air, strengthen floors, and so forth, indicate increased military activity in this country. I also agree with the minister of foreign affairs that we cannot fully link our decision to anything other than the natural and predictable maintenance and action of the region, as well as to the fact that this operation and these activities of the United States in the region are in full agreement with the 1951 Defense Convention and the Annex and the Will of both countries in 2006, when the Army left, which did not change these basic activities in Icelandic foreign affairs and Icelandic defenses, we are still having a powerful and effective defense work with the United States. I sometimes feel that it has gone away in 2006, but it wasn't like that. This has been repeated and occurred at a special meeting. The Foreign Affairs Committee, which we had with the secretary and our main advisers and our specialists in this area, had a good discussion on these matters. But it doesn't matter that I agree completely with what everyone has said here that there is truly a reason to discuss the situation in security and defense, perhaps because of most others other than the surrounding cloud, and the fact that there is evidence to it, unfortunately, that they need to be furthered on a global level. Fearing our security is simply more. They are simply more complicated today than they were, and they are both more and more complex than we wanted them to be. Iceland is not excluded in that matter. The work we face and know requires, in my opinion, that we remain a loyal guard in cooperation with the NATO countries, that we remain a loyal guard of our presence in NATO and perceive and know how important this cooperation is for us, and that we remain loyal to our continuing solid support for the defence we have had in the United States. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's no surprise, sir, a respectable president, that it's my attitude to the case, but I believe this is the two main points of Iceland's foreign policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u38	President. First, I want to thank you for your discussion. Now it's got the highest. The secretary of state did not point to the defense agreement, so I would like to ask: What agreement? A new agreement was made, and where is it available, and what can be done to make the United States Army more populated before this contract? It is important for everyone to realize that the defense agreement we had with the United States was one - sided by the United States in 2006. I think it's important that there's a decisive and clear statement from the highest level. Secretary of State, that the base is not being reassigned. If you google Iceland US Navy, a man goes into a web like Stars and Stripes, Defence News and Navy News, and there's some kind of negotiations in it all over the place that we're opening the base again, that it's in preparation, and that's even done there. So I think it's important that there is simply a statement made by the State Department that it isn't, that only a laundry building is being built. It's clear that I've been contacted by news media that I've just not trusted to answer this matter because I don't think it is enough. I'm shocked by these dramatic events, and I'd like to have a clear and clear answer to how much can be extended within this contract. And where is the agreement available?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for recording this case. It is certainly necessary, and we would need to have a much deeper discussion about the state of the world and the role of Iceland or a position in that subject. I believe Iceland should have the courage and independence to measure entirely independent and on the grounds of whether we want Iceland and Iceland to be any pawn or failure on that chess board of the superpowers, mainly Russia and the United States, and their closest members within NATO, who are talking about a new cold war. It's the worst of bad news, and I'm sure we're sorry that men with both sides gear their way up and that they're cutting their muscles. For us as an unarmed little nation in the north, and hopefully continuing to be peace lovers, there is little more sad than seeing the occurrences in which men speak for an increase in combat and an increase in this kind of activity in our part of the world. We're here to make it clear in both word and deed that we're not interested in Iceland being used in such a show-and-go-go-go-go-go-go-go. This is very serious, and especially for cooperation in the northern regions, where we need the peaceful and cooperative cooperation of these members involved in the Arctic. We watch this worse now a month from month to month, loss of loss, until it is almost a broken ground of cooperation between Russia and other members of the Arctic Council, part of the European Council, and so forth. We're going back decades with this going on. I found speeches at the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs and Chairman of Wharton. The foreign committee is like an old rock from a underground cave that reminded me of my discussion here, 25 to 30 years ago. NATO party, the bad Russians, the importance of us sticking together and all that cliché. What does Iceland have to do with it? [[The president calls.]] Not a thing. We should continue to rejoice that the army kindly left us here in 2006.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u40	V.E.G. President. Thank you for calling for this important issue of safety and protection. Today, we see a changed world picture, both political and geographic, as well as an increase in military tensions in the world. It is a growing threat of terrorism, with the increased impacts of terrorist organizations such as Daesh and national instability in the East Pacific and North Africa, and particularly with regard to the conflicts in Syria, Iraq and Libya, which have set up a century of immigrants into neighboring areas and have caused widespread confidence in the Middle East. Defense programmes need to have the nature of the case in accordance with the need for regular reviews and covers Article 5. The Atlantic Convention that attack against one Member State in NATO should be considered an attack on all. This is the clear and impregnable aspect of NATO. This has a great guarantee for a small nation. It may be noted that the NATO Council, where I am chairman of Iceland, recently approved a report on the challenges and opportunities in the North, underlining the increased geological importance of the area in which the impacts of climate change have made its resources available and opened up for new and important shipping routes. Then Iceland has been involved in dealing with the work of the Atlantic Community on the implementation of the UN Security Council No. 1325, women, peace, and security. While much progress has been made, and our follow-up and contributions have certainly made a difference, loyal support for the subject of the Ministerial Conference and summits has made a difference. It's part of the 1951 National Defense Convention that they come here and do their defenses. If the U.S. Army is interested in any major event in this country, it needs to be discussed with the Icelandic government and this has not been the case. As a community, we need to be alert to international changes, so I welcome our discussion here today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u41	Mr. President. I haven't read much Stars and Strips, neither has Devence News, and no foreign journalist has called me to ask myself how this is. The other thing, there's no need to make any further statement from the Supreme Court. Government on this matter. I thought it was the highest. The minister of foreign affairs makes a very clear statement when he earlier said that he was absolutely clear that he had had not had any discussion that the military would come back here or that had been requested by anyone he had interviewed. Then I feel that the matter is completely clear. The rest is exactly right. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon said in a nuclear speech earlier, there have been changes in the international environment. A few years ago, people simply felt that it was losing out on the long - lasting peace of Russia and the United States. We saw this in 2008 when President Medvedev spoke directly in such a way that in the coming years, there would be a special cooperation between NATO and Russia. All of this has changed. We see that the business has changed in the north too. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, we need to do what we can to prevent any changes in northern paths that have been low-voltage and become high-voltage areas. Of course, we can see that various nations, Norwegians, Dans, and especially Russians are building military bases that are advancing north. We need to add some weight to the scales. However, this does not change the fact that we have taken the option of being members of the Convention of the Atlantic Community in order to be protected if possible. Being involved in such cooperation involves rights, but also responsibilities. [[The president calls.]] The changes we're discussing here seem to allow me to fit easily within the 2006 agreement. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of State: Is it a requirement to change in some way the political agreement, including to take into account some changes that have occurred in the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u42	A respectable president. It is important that this thought be expressed aloud in this hall to the highest degree. The secretary of state must not, nor should he deal with the United States on behalf of Iceland, act like a broken, wing-worship, who is ready to welcome the lady who rejected him. Besides, I'm not saying that he's doing it, but it's important that this thought is expressed aloud here, and it's good to hear that there is a common understanding that there is an increasing level of activity and that there is more troops at the Cheflavour Airport calling for special discussions in this country, and to call for a special decision on that subject. Furthermore, it is extremely important that we make it clear to the United States that it is not their decision to do so. That's a decision made here on the land. If a decision is made to participate in a arms race, the discussion must be conducted here in the country before it is done. I don't agree with a decision like that, so they say. And I'd also like to say about what's been going on here in our discussion today that I think it's highly recommended to say that we have some particularly helpful defense work with the United States. I don't think that U.S. divorce with our country in 2006 was a good or exemplary one. He left a community in the South with a broken, paralyzed sea and left enormous unemployment. I haven't forgotten the whole story. You have to keep in mind these matters, that there are no friendly nations when it comes to military cooperation. The Americans are not taking care of the interests of the Icelanders, nor are they particularly defending them. Even though Davíð was a friend of Bush, they care for their interests and their own interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u43	A respectable president. I have to admit that I have been concerned about Iceland's security and defenses for some time, especially since recent terrorist attacks in Europe, and also because of the behavior of the Russians on an international level that I don't want to agree to be some Russians in Ukraine, where you see the Russians breaking international law and covenants, inside of the Crimea with military authority, and with military activities in Ukraine. In addition, fear is that the relative independence from the Baltic States, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania will not be respected. This is anxiety that can't be minimized. I have also, like more Icelandic politicians, been an enthusiastic advocate that this country would set up an international search and rescue team, already a campaign north of Iceland has increased, followed by the opening of the northeast voyage. We'll see the dramatic changes in global shipping, so I think a search and rescue center here in the country would be very necessary. After the attacks on the Twin Towers in the United States, the situation in the United States changed - that was while the Russians were still hostile - and they left Iceland as far as everyone knows but now stands to re action at the Cheflavour airport on behalf of the U.S. Navy to expand the atmosphere. I rejoice in the increased defenses of the country through the safety of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u44	A respectable president. As far as I can see from the media on this matter, I don't think that this change alone is dangerous as such, but it raises legitimate questions, and I thank you. A member in particular for calling on this discussion because the suspicions raised when these issues arise and when such reports are received are very valid. Not only is it understandable but it is based on experience in major mistakes in the U.S. foreign policy, especially when Iceland has an ass on that road. I'm asking a respectable president to forgive the language, but I think it's appropriate. One of the most tragic examples of prophecies that have come true was the 2003 Iraq War, which predicted that this would increase the terror of terrorism, which is exactly what has happened for a long time. The rise of Islam's empire in the Middle East today, especially Syria and northern Iraq, is no more than a direct result of the bad decision that Iceland made and was not called a major decision at that time. Ironically, later in that discussion, a former ruler spoke at the height of his conversation. Minister that even if a person is not aware of the exact threat that Iceland was facing, something terrible could always happen, and that's why protection would be necessary. But there were reasons. One was that we had the U.S. Army and another that we supported the Iraq War. Increasing military power is not an automatic increase in security. More military equipment does not automatically mean that you are safer. The decisions are important, and as we look ahead, we should try to learn from past mistakes when we have participated in important matters, especially the observed mistakes in the U.S. foreign policy. Therefore, this suspicion is entirely justified, it is totally understandable, and it is important that, in time, we be more careful when making decisions together with our friends. [[The point is, what do you think of...?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u45	V.E.G. President. I thank those who have participated in this discussion as well as in answers at the highest rate. Minister. It presented a clear distinction between class positions, both to the seriousness of this issue as well as to the attitude toward military activities and the presence of an army in Iceland. I find it unusual to talk about the world's changing landscapes since 2006, but I want to discuss this air cover problem very narrow, as if it were not related. As I came to my speech earlier, I think it has nothing to do with anything. This is part of a changed world movie, and this is the movie showing in Iceland. I'm sorry to hear that. Ministers want to step in when it comes to air spacekeeping because I believe there's really nothing but training camps for foreign armies, we'll give them access on land. On the other hand, I think that's exactly what it is. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson said, the United States is sorry she left with all her troops and wants to come back here again. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister who said that no discussion had taken place or that the United States hadn't asked to come back here, would it not fully be clear that if some sort of request for this came true? Ministers account for this at the General Assembly. In my opinion, an open and enlightened discussion of these matters is key to the fact that it is not just being addressed. A foreign business committee where people are committed because this is a matter for the common people to know what is happening in it and how politicians and political parties feel about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u46	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I'd like to start by saying that it's not right what happened to you. The last speaker, that I did not link the changes in the crash to changes in the world. That's exactly what I said. There are new, more powerful machines that need to be housed in Keflavík because they're looking for subs around Iceland. That's just how it is, unfortunately, so, of course, it has something to do with that world. The fact that the U.S. Army, the Navy, is ready to be paid or willing to repair this hangar, the NATO shelters use a probe to be maintained, in fact, I feel positive. So it won't hit us. Many questions have not been asked here today, but some have been identified. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson asked if there would be a change in the political agreement. For a long time, it has been discussed whether this agreement is good enough, right now, around what we are discussing today, or whether we need to update it in some way. I have asked for it, and it has come out of this public address before, that such talks need to take place. It is now a ten - year agreement made in 2006, and it must clearly be reviewed based on the change and also on the will of the Icelanders. For questions about the defence agreement, it is simply on the State Department web so that a defence contract should be obtained. It also contains the appendixes, and it reveals all about this matter, and it is not hard to find. I've been so impressed that there's no discussion about the rescue team returning to Keflavík. There are no discussions and no wishes have been shown about the permanent presence of an army in Iceland. I can't tell you that much clearer, that's not possible. You can try to get out of it, I have no idea what you can think of with that. That's right. That's what's happened. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, North Pole has been very peaceful until now, and hopefully it will continue. We stress that it will. There are some signs in the air, but they're not -- I'm not gonna take it as deep as a whale. A senator did earlier. [[The president calls.]] Then they talk. A senator for clichés. Let us not forget that. A senator spent four years in a government that could have changed all of this. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u47	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synonym of government clearance to validate for Iceland a book on the involvement of the Guatemala Republic of Germany to a free trade deal between the EFTA and the Central American states signed on June 22, 2015. The EFTA nation began in February 2012 a conversation about a vacation agreement with four Central American states, i.e. Costa Rica, Panama, Guatemala, Honduras In December of that year, we finished our talks with Costa Rica and Panama. A free trade deal with the two countries was signed in June 2013, and in September 2014 the contract went into effect after a traditional validation procedure. However, at the same time, Guatemala and Honduras could not complete their talks. However, discussions about Guatemala's involvement that the vacation agreement continued and ended in October 2014. The Guatemala Member of the Free Trade Convention between EFTA and Central America will provide improved access to Icelandic enterprises to markets in Guatemala and to improve the company's competitiveness. The Member States also contributes to the common project of EFTA to improve the market access of their enterprises to market markets around the world using free trade agreements. The EFTA countries have combined 25 such agreements with 36 states or states. The Parliamentary arrangement explains the main components of the EFTA-country agreement and the Central States as well as the terms of accounting for Guatemala's involvement in the contract. In part, it shows that there will be customs in the import of Guatemala on marine products and the vast majority of industrial products. However, customs decline partially up to 15 years of adaptation periods. As for agricultural products, customs fall off from Iceland's exports on lamb, live horses, and horse meat, as well as tolls drop or decrease from various other farm products. The bargain is of a so - called second generation free trade agreement, and it also contains regulations for the change of trades, investments, freedom of mind, competitive affairs, public shopping, stock market regulations, and measures to resolve disagreements. No export has been available from Iceland to Guatemala and the Guatemala import has also been small, resulting in a total of 54 million. K. Last year. As a result of the delinquency of tolls, a better setting for trade between countries is created. I suggest, a respectable president, following this discussion, the proposal will be referred to a second session. ... andwhat. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u48	A respectable president. I'd like to address this synopsis proposal for validating the membership of the Guatemala Republic to a vacation agreement between the EFTA and the Central Americas. I'd like to step down here in the preword of the contract on the basis of the contract and the object of its contract. Among other things, it says by permission of the president: ▪ Plans to create new employment opportunities, to improve the standard of living, and to pay for business, are set up, and to ensure presupervisability. It also obligates the states to fight corruption and to support guidelines on the clear and official mechanisms of government. The objectives to protect the environment and to ensure the most practical use of natural resources are set in accordance with the aim of sustainable development and are developed by national rights and commitments according to national treaties. ▪ Courted by the United Nations Convention and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Human Rights, the United Nations is supported by democracy, justice, human rights, and freedom. It also confirms the principles of human employment expressed in the Treaty of the International Labour Organization, which they are involved in.◯ These are all very positive things and show us that cooperation is always good. By sharing knowledge, we also gain knowledge and, of course, opportunities for foreign markets. It's like the highest. The secretary of state entered here in his case. There has been no part of Iceland's import from which there has been very limited, and, according to my information, agrienvironments. So this is clearly an opportunity for an Icelandic company that they will undoubtedly make use of. I'd also like to grab down here at the Parliament, which is more detailed on the provision of the Guatemalan membership of the EFTA Free Trade Convention and the Central American States, which includes: In the accounting process, and in addition to this, Guatemala's involvement with free trade agreements and the mutual market access to goods and services between the EFTA and Guatemala and other rights and the responsibilities of involvement. [...] With Guatemala's involvement in the EFTA Free Trade Convention in Central America, there is a great improvement in Icelandic exporters'access to Guatemalan market. Tolls thus fall from every kind of sea product and from the vast majority of industrial products. However, customs decline partially up to 15 years of adaptation periods. As for agricultural products, customs fall off from Iceland's exports on lamb, live horses, and horse meat, as well as tolls drop or decrease from various other farm products. On the part of Iceland, customs from all sea products and industrial products are dropped immediately, tolls are lowered and eliminated by agrienvironmental products. I think it's a very positive matter, and I'm expecting nothing more than that. A foreign press committee is very careful about this, and it dissuades from the Committee in a positive way so that the General can vote for them. I expect nothing more than a positive conclusion there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u49	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a judicial hearing to revise the law on a legal home. The parties of the proposal are accompanied by the one listed here. The members of Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, Hrafn Gunnarsson, Karl Garðarsson, Svandís, Svavarsdóttir, and Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir. The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concluded to hide the Minister of Ministers to set up a staff to review law on law, No. 21/190, with the goal of having a husband and wife fit to have a legal home in their own area, whether they already have a base within the country or when someone else has a base abroad. There will also be changes to other laws that must be changed to achieve the objective. Ministers request a General Committee for a new legislation on the legal home, based on the proposals of the staff, no later than March 30, 2016. The proposal stated that the proposal was previously introduced to the 144th legislature. On January 1, 1991, there was an ennobling law on law enforcement. A bill to them was formed by a committee appointed by the Department of Social Affairs in May 1985 to the wishes of Iceland's Habitat and the European Union, where it was considered necessary to revise the existing law on legal homes that had been in effect since 1960. The main reason for the revision was that changing social conditions, such as man - made habitats and habitats, required that the environment be adjusted accordingly. At present, legal laws have kept their place for 25 years. During this time, social changes have also taken place, since then the nation has become a member of the EEA Treaty, a global network and has experienced bank collapse, to name just a few. During the past few years, people have had some problems because of law 7. The law states that a husband and wife have the same law. Employers in charge of employees have sometimes demanded that they record their home in the local community where the employer's work takes place. The demands have made it necessary for an employee's partner to move his home to the same rural society, even though his base is actually in another rural society or even separate from the employee. This situation also discourages an employee's mate to marry with him. After the collapse of the bank, quite a few people had to work outside the cliffs. Often, another mate kept up the outside while the other couple and their children remained here. In some lands, those who plan to do jobs within their borders are required to move to their home of law. For example, in Norway, many Icelanders have attended employment there. There is, however, no record of legal rights to register marital law in different lands. However, this has been authorized in many cases on the basis of a standard, unregistered legal authority. Although changes in law on law were made eight times, it is safe to say that it is now time to revise them. It is likely that this review will require adjustment of the requirements of other laws, such as wrapping laws, income taxes, and social security laws. Here's a suggestion for the U.S. Council to hide the highest. I.A. Minister to set up a staff to review law on law, No. 21/190, with the goal of having a husband and wife fit to have a legal home in their own area, whether they already have a base within the country or when someone else has a base abroad. It is expected that other laws will also be changed so that the objective will be met. It is then suggested that a minister be put up with a new law on law at the Council no later than March 30, 2016, and that this will be based on the proposals of the group. In order to ensure that the revision will be adequate, it is necessary that a combination of the work force reflects the governments, which are most likely to have laws to alter, such as the national tax head, Iceland's National Registry, the government insurance agency, etc. Mr. President. I spoke for the case at the last assembly, and there were six reviews all on a positive note. In fact, according to the National Social Affairs Act, by permission of Presidents: In a meeting of the Union's Management Board on November 21, its policy was adopted for 2014-2018, which states in 3,4.9: It should be used to ensure that the overall review of the law on the home and to adjust the registration of a structural exchange will be accelerated. This work will focus on strengthening the country's union status in the registration process and reducing the risk of incorrect or incomplete social registration. At the same time, all designated households will be guaranteed to be in accordance with local society's organization. It also says that the revision took place. Furthermore, according to the United States Union Society, rural society has a very rich interest because its population is well established. It is always important to know the rights of the rural organisations to enable this, but to a greater degree, that groups of people are in grey areas in this respect. The relationship supports the establishment of a working group in order to revise the law of law, but it is well thought to be intended for a larger role than the proposed proposal. A new group would, in effect, replace the former committee and should be able to use many current work. For that reason, it should not be too long for the task to be done. At the end of my speech, I would like to remind you that all council members of the proposal are non-political, cross - political organizations on the subject. Hence, there is a basis for quick, efficient compromise on the subject. The General and Education Committee, which is my hope that this will happen and that the spokesman who will be selected for the case will follow through accordingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u50	Mr. President. I'm here to celebrate this proposal and thank you. a transferer for volunteering. I agree that it is very important to have a double law home, especially for those who were facing the collapse of having to do so, but we know it as well as those who live in TV space. A person may be at sea somewhere else, and although a person cannot really be chosen to move his home, it is left to him when reorganizing and something like it is desirable. After many years of fishing and having no home in that area and not returning taxes there, comments are being made. There is one smell of what is being suggested here to see if it is the course of wisdom to change. We have also been discussing children's married life, that parents are not discriminated against when it comes to legal homes, whether they attend services or other services or on government payments, depending on where the child is registered in a legal home. I remember that when the proposal was made last, a comment was made suggesting that the work group mentioned here would also examine that matter. Even if someone feels that it should not be mixed, that is exactly what he needs to consider changing family and other forms, just to update them to modern times, whether they are only working elsewhere or for some other reason, where a person may need to attend work elsewhere more and less every day, but he does not bring work to the community. I'm very supportive of this case, because I'm very supportive. Maybe I should take a challenge. A manager, and a spokesman for the proposal of the General and Education Committee, followed up with it. Like what? The senator mentioned is the carriers of the motion from all categories here at the council, seems to me, so she should be able to perform quite a pleasant performance through the committee. The other day, I asked if someone else would have to call for reviews or other traffic records or if they had come forward who had something to say about this matter. It is in itself an expression of appreciation for the committee. The reviews that came about last time were all positive. Although there were other contributions, they were generally positive. It should be possible to resolve this matter fairly quickly. I really hope that it will be done and will suggest at the next meeting of the Committee when the case will be sent out for review, if a vehicle is not opposed. Other than that, I repeat, I welcome this matter, and I think it's long time to change this arrangement. We know so many people that there are problems and, as we trace them well, this is done to update the law to the rhythm of the changed times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u51	Mr. President. I'm going to recommend a synopsis to prepare the long term national interest strategy. The interpretation proposal has been reassigned, and it stands with me. Councilmen Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and Oddný G. Harðardóttir. The proposal was made at the last Parliament, the 144th legislature, to join the Economic and Business Committee. The committee sent the case for review and received some answers, which in general were very positive and strongly recommended by some parties. However, it was up to the end of the council, and it was not time to settle the matter, so I have chosen to reroute the proposal, largely with the same report. However, a few comprehensive information and reference to other members of the body have been updated in line with the situation at this present assembly. As indicated by the proposal to hide Prime Minister, on behalf of the Commission, the proposal assumes to begin planning long - term national agendas. In order to be first developed, or after an incident adapted to the Icelandic situation, economic models and projections and other basic data that will enable better long-term predictions and look forward to the likely national future to several decades and even to some extent out of this century. In this regard, there will be special consideration for important economic factors in the financial system such as the development of pension commitments and the development of the building of the Pension Fund, which are very large variables in our economic and national sectors. This will increase the likelihood and/or possibility of national economy in Iceland for the next two or three decades and out of the century. In particular, the more likely or potential development of social, environmental, and demographic factors, all of which are relevant factors and the basis for such long-term plan, will be considered. • identifying Iceland's specific strengths and weaknesses on nature and environment, resource, geographic, land space, population, resources and other material and chemical factors that could have an impact on such long-term plan. It will also be a struggle to provide examples of potential generation accounts, which include an attempt to compare the lot of generations, living generations, and those who will build the land after decades and even a century later. Finally, we need to examine how the project will be done best, and who should be assigned to care for the development, publication, and regular review of such national interests in the long term. The proposal assumes that the Prime Minister will appoint a task management committee to prepare the project and call for representatives from the educational and scientific community, the labour market, rural society, public organisations, as well as experts from councils and institutions after events. Then, a prime minister in agreement with the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs would submit to the Council within a year from the agreed proposal, which should be sufficient time, time-making, and a planned work programme, as well as a cost to final approval at the General Assembly. Thus, the case would be planned at this stage, would be so kindly agreed to the proposal, and would return to final decision at the Council when there was a budget and a cost assessment. There is reason to reason on the basis of our proposals that it is important to do this kind of work in Iceland. There is little doubt that the basis for long-term national interest initiatives and relevant data to prepare them can be very useful and relevant to economic management and various decision-making policies in the community. It presents a concerted, comprehensive challenge to gain knowledge of things such as community resources and possessions in material and chemical and intelligence, and it poses threats and threats as far as possible. Thus, such national programmes include both efforts to localate and efforts to predict the probable or potential development, and after events, they are influenced or influenced by, as far as possible. Of course, circumstances change, and such processes need to be profound and ongoing. There is a need to deal with the unforeseen occurrence of events. The effects are coming either from man to man or from nature. No one is saying that such a long - term national economy is possible, and it will survive for years to come, of course not. But we argue that putting such a plan together and regularly updated it is beneficial and beneficial and will provide a measure of right and wrong, even as it were. involves trying to identify all factors that have an effect. Second, it is discussed in a report, and no one can hide that the approach is also a determined effort to counteract short - term thinking, impulsiveness, and irresponsibility within a sheep market or even without political foibles. It has to be that some vision of this kind of future life - maping where we are and where we are going and where we could be after 10-520 years, where the subjects need to be dealt, and how to call for material control, may require that money be spent on social grounds - it is important when people make decisions day by day in their conversations. We can take, for example, the importance of building on the basis of the status and value of resources and the basis for the resource uses needed to counteract the unwise short - term threat of the waste of the nations, not to be cast into income and value that should rightly be a part of the future in order to buy temporary popularity in the present. This is, in fact, one of the basic principles of sustainable development and sustainable development in society and national society. We also need detailed information on the distribution of income, and where is it headed? How do individual groups of revenues develop? How is wealth building up? Is wealth moving on a few hands? Is he getting a little tight? All of these are things that must matter when we consider how to counteract any physical wrongs or chemical misunderstandings and the resulting social ills. Such a national economy can be very useful to people other than politicians and those who are dealing with economic and economic issues. Enterprises, institutions, and organizations that want to look ahead can be strong by seeing how governments evaluate evolution and how to see a map of their own policies and plans, their own decision-making. This, of course, involves what is somewhat undisputed to the position of each generation, and its conditions are marked by the actions of the preceding ones by the actions of previous generations. She benefits from their good and upbuilding actions, but she copes with the consequences of their mistakes and foolish deeds if anyone is. Every generation must provide for itself in a way that will not minimize or damage the opportunities of the following ones. It is vital that these things be kept in mind so that generations of living can succeed in the form of conflict. We do not want to be part of some custom generation, which will tell them in history that they have acted irresponsiblely and have turned the problem into the future and left behind for others to deal with it, as well as that which is not morally justified. Once again, you come to the basic idea of sustainable development and sustainable development and life - style that ensure the future, but do not threaten it. It cannot be recommended that long-term national interest programmes, efforts to set up some kind of generation accounts, and to guide them, all are important factors in this relationship. Of course, such projects have previously been considered, and the suggestion that nothing was done on such projects is not being made. It highlights the present legal requirements for government finance, assuming that the Ministers will report to the Council every three years on a number of factors that have much to do with economic development for the coming year and some further into the future. Of course, it must be more significant and more important to have this independent and long - term plan. Of course, the living room makes up a number of predictions. For example, we can predict the likely evolution of population populations in Iceland over the next few decades. A number of transport and energy schemes are based on indicators, energy forecasts, traffic forecasts, and so forth. Medical programs try to assess the need for service as a result of increasing the elderly and thus to continue. But most of such programs share the fact that they look only a few years into the future, perhaps over a decade, and they don't fit in on a single national scale, one long - term national or national plan, which would be a far more fundamental factor than trying to look up their own agendas and read them together. In view of our economic situation, this is very close to us Icelanders and should not have to argue with this in the light of our bitter 2008 experience and the years that followed the importance of having long - term thoughts and precautions and responsibility and sustainableness in making decisions about economic matters, government and economic conditions. We can take, for example, our present situation, these years after the collapse. Today, it is relatively undisputed that in many areas there is an urgent need for renewal and investment in the interiors of society, which were understood for understandable reasons to save a little while in their most difficult years. They all know about the condition of the road system, the need to build a new hospital, the need for investment in nursing homes, and in caring for the elderly. In that way, we have borrowed some of our money from the future to build them up and invest in them, of course, but we will not be able forever. Then it is time for such long - term thinking and long - term planning to face this reality, map it, plan how these needs will be met, every year, with which money, and so on. All talk a lot about the change in population age. Of course, the economic size of the pension fund, which now owns about 150% of the GDP in the agricultural industry in order to pay pensions, is huge and decisive for this nation. There is also the tax treatment of pensions and future incomes of state and rural society in un taxable pension funds, which at the time of payment. All of these are variables that will clearly define the national and economic conditions in the coming years and decades. This makes sense to us that there is a map and an estimate and a schedule. From previous efforts to do such things, the report is quoted only in the grand work being done at the top of the present world. Prime Minister Steingrímur, Hermannsson's son, who set up a well - marked job in the spring of 1984 under the name Iceland for the next quarter of the century. There, in many ways, it was wrestled with parallels, and the suggestion is suggested. There is also the assessment of the company's McKinsey & Company in Icelandic economy, the reports of the Economic and Development Agency and other information that may, of course, be useful data in these materials but do not solve our own need to do this, to evaluate this on our own terms and to use for ourselves. Hopefully, all will be able to agree that this is a careful and well - prepared way for work on this matter that would be taken in step by step, as the proposal assumes. In reality, I find it difficult to see that the proposal can be resisted with strong reasoning but that they see no reason for this kind of work, they just don't feel that it is needed. If anyone is available to maintain that viewpoint, of course, I am interested in having a word with him. Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] After this discussion, I suggest that the case be referred to a second issue. ... andwhat. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u52	A respectable president. I hereby recommend an interpretation resolution on the appropriate conditions of guide guides. Transporters with me on this matter are why. The members of Katrín, the daughter of Júlíusdóttir, the Svandís of Zoggis, the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, and Áa Guðrún, the daughter of Helgadóttir. Together, we would all make smaller parts of the environment and transport committee. In this proposal for Congress it is that the General concluded to hide the Environment and Resource Minister to prepare the rules for guide travel through Iceland's highlands and national parks and national and international peace countries in Iceland. At the beginning of the 146th legislature of the Council, the Council of Ministers explains the rules of a report in the fall of 2017. The report provided with this conclusion states: This proposal is made to prepare the rules for effective tours of Iceland's highlands, national parks and reservations, with a view to protecting nature. The work of guide guides is neither legal nor legal. Still, education requirements are set for a job guide. Leaders are professionals who serve as tourists, requiring the work, among other things, that guides have extensive knowledge of Icelandic national life, history, culture, and, most important, Iceland's nature. Each year, thousands of tourists travel in the highlands, national parks, and the restlands of Iceland, with and without guidance. The nature of these areas is unique, with the nature of ecosystems being sensitive and dangerous to tourists, highways, and other sources of transportation. Many tourists travel through Iceland's nature on organized groups, but also on their own, on cars, horses, wheels, or motorcycles, or on foot. Clearly, the greatest risk of damage lies in large groups of guides with little or limited knowledge of special nature of the land. To make it possible to limit or prevent damage to the nature of the roads, national parks, and reservations, it is important that guides responsible for organized groups on the highlands be qualified to walk through the natural world in the manner required by law and in the general accepted custom here. Leaders need to be qualified to guide people through the nature of the country in a way that does not cause damage and that tourists recognize the rules of communication and the importance of nature being affected as a minor disorder, such as by road transport, stone build-up, and the breakdown of organic waste. Transporters believe that the EEA in cooperation with the Institute of Natural Science, Land - healing, and State culture prepares a course for tourists in the highlands, national parks, and peace, as well as suggestions on the rules of the appropriate conditions for those who take the lead in the most precious and vulnerable areas. Guidelines who have already graduated from a guide school in this country are expected to have sufficient knowledge of the content of such a course, but e.g. Foreign guides would be under such conditions to obtain the required knowledge before providing guidance on the most sensitive environment in the country. With increasing numbers of tourists, there may be an increase in the number of guides who may not have much knowledge of Icelandic nature or the rules for dating and protecting that are likely to have educated guides. Various countries have taken the responsibility of tourists to hire national guides on their journeys, but these have not gone that far. It is desirable that as most guides have completed their study in Icelandic settings, this suggests that there will be a course for those who intend to be guided here to ensure that nature will not be compromised. The Environment and Resource Minister is in charge of this resolution to direct to the institutions mentioned above, in cooperation with the tourism and rural organisations, as well as to local travelers such as Peripheral and Iceland's nonprofital travel society, to provide suggestions on the appropriate conditions for the guides to travel through Iceland's delicate natural habitats. It is not much, however, in the report that follows this suggestion to add, except perhaps because this proposal is of the same root and the same challenge and suggestion that I received to measure here last week, and it was about the development of tourist attractions. Its objective is to take the responsibility, to place the responsibility for those living in different parts of the country, to a nearby tourist facility, and to guide leaders who take large groups through the country. It is known that there are groups traveling around a very delicate area of the country under the guidance of foreign guides who may have very limited knowledge of what Icelandic nature can tolerate and what is considered to be permanent damage to the land and may have long - term consequences. Of course, this is first and last thought as a suggestion to ensure that certain minimal knowledge is available in those responsible for the guidance of the affected areas. This is also a suggestion that points to what has been very much during the recent discussion, i.e. Security of tourists. This would make it clear that even though the guides are magnificent and beautiful, visitors who took advantage of their guidance would make it known that Icelandic nature is also very dangerous. Getting close to or faced with extreme forces of nature can lead to accidents, even fatal accidents, as the examples prove. I think this is a very good way to make sure that people in general are prepared to take care of this guidance in order to increase the safety of tourists and to think for a long time about how we can best guarantee that Iceland's natural nature will not be seriously damaged by the number of tourists coming home. As we have known, very many countries that have failed to look at these materials and have been exposed to vulnerable tourist attractions because of the slow intervention of events. Recently, for example, in the news, the Italian government has decided to close certain fishing villages because of the efforts of tourists or at least limit visits until it is found out how the demand can be met, to receive this number of visitors, without causing significant damage or loss of the quality of life of existing tourists, and to damage the experience of the visitors as well as the known. I'm not going to repeat any more of this proposal. She speaks mostly for herself, and I want her to be, after this discussion, referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u53	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a law on merit taxation, no. 50/1988, with subsequent changes, sales of hunting rights and fishing licenses. It's a very simple bill. 1st par. The bill is as follows, with the permission of the President: ◯ At the 8th count, 3 mg. 2.g. The law adds to a new proverb, as follows: There is an issue of tax responsibility for hunting, and in the case of fixed fees, without regard to fishing. It is suggested that credit be given to non-employable fishing rights and to sell non-employment materials in the way that they will be considered worthy of the added taxes due to goods. The taxation rate will occur within the first 18 months after a post-baseline value at level 2.mg. 14th par. Act of merit taxation. Thereafter, it will be at the upper level of 1 mg. 14th par. The law. This will result in the release enjoyed by the fishermen from paying off the valuable tax. It's a matter of time before. paritaprevir Pirata Jon Thor Olafsson proposed, and this was in connection with national pay and the alleged high cost of it, in fact, the cost is not high if it does. Then it was. A senator found that there was a ruined tax base, so he proposed this change. Unfortunately, this bill did not reach the point at last assembly that there were some reviews, but we did not find any evidence to use this tax base, such as other tax collectors, i.e. In the case of fixed fees, fishing and fishing sales were used. Since we often suggest that something is done that costs the money's money, in fact, there is a requirement that you see them in order to make a contribution or to an increase in the amount of money that you funded or that you took from one of them. Therefore, we suggest it as a tax base, so that we can answer it in a very perturbably way where money should come from to be used in such projects as national pay. This bill, however, is not specifically presented with national pay, but after the previous session, we felt that it was up to us again. The importers and the rest of the team are snooty. Senators Björt Ólafsdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnústir and Össur Skarphéðinsson. I look forward to seeing reviews on this subject. If there's any basis for this, they're unknown to me, but, of course, the matter of the council is intended to be received back. If there is good evidence that hunting rights and fishing licenses are not worthy of paying taxes, they may be accepted, but as above, there is simply a ruined tax base in our opinion, which is to be used to finance the projects that the State definitely needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u54	A respectable president. I recommend here for the seventh time for a bill to legalize the General Court. Under the bill, literature apart from me. The men of Karl the son of Garðarsson, Brumur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Unnur the Konráðsdóttir of Konekz, and Höskuldur the son of Þórhallsson; It is agreed with us that all of us are legalists who give the bill extra weight and show that we agree that we need a legal office to be formed in other parts of the North countries, since we attend most of our rights in the Northern countries. Granted, where the law offices are located in a country is a big difference. They are sometimes held in the judicial hearings of the state, but we thought it best to have it here at the General. In many cases, it is said that the European Commission is a country of high quality and subjugation for smaller parts of the government, in order to increase the independence of the Council from the Commission, is proposed in the bill that this legal office be here. Its role, of course, is that members of the Parliament's service, review the laws and interpretation proposals, and assist members of the Parliament to produce bills. Often, bills that appear before the council are sufficiently accomplished and ask whether they are superior to the Constitution. During the last assembly, for example, a bill was taken through the council, which became a law that was later condemned to the Supreme Court. One aspect of Paul's so - called years of law was condemned, since he objected to a constitution regarding the recovery of law, i.e. That a requisition of interest measures was forbidden prior to the entry of the law. This is an example, a respected president, of the importance of working professionally here, that laws of law do not be submitted until they are reviewed by specialists in a privileged legal office. It is also very important not to put in the bill that becomes a law against international treaties that are bound to Iceland. It is therefore imperative that this legal office be formed here at the council and be put on the task of easy capitals so that it will be effective at the start. As I have reviewed them, this case has been submitted many times earlier, and today quite a few members of the Parliament agree that it is urgent that this special law office be established. As we know, the pressures on the courts are growing, asking for more money to put in the courts. If the law is good, it naturally leads to fewer judicial cases, but if laws are blurred and incomprehensible, more judicial cases will arise. I have at times been harsh, saying that there are very bad laws that go through here and that more often than not, laws have been replaced. Time and again, there are very many mistakes in legalization that need to be corrected quickly. So I hope this case has a course this time at the General. This is absolutely necessary for a professional job here at the council. In Denmark, for example, only once has it been decided that law was contrary to the Constitution. It's only happened that one time, it hasn't happened again. There, legal preparations are very professional; once made a mistake, not again. It is an example and an example, and it should serve as a reminder to keep things in the same format here, as well as to relieve the stress of the courts - and not to do so, as in the case of jurisdiction, as well as the Supreme Court. The bill has a few historys here at the council, for as far back as 116 can be searched, the legislature can be searched as far back as 116th when there is such a blow. paritaprevir Páll Pétursson proposed a synod proposal to set up a legal body for counseling on legal matters, especially on the Constitution of the republic, human rights, and international commitments, and in order to maintain legal harmony. It was suggested that the legal right of all the executives who test the regulations of the Constitution should be submitted. In a paper with this synonym, it was stated that the Council lacked very independent parties to investigate and rule out legal matters. It would be particularly shocking for a sensitive issue involving the Constitution of Iceland, human rights, international commitments, and when legal harmony needs to be maintained. This idea is since 1992, and it was supported by a summary that the Danish Parliament had agreed on legal surveillance and expert advice in various European countries. It stated that in all the countries examined during those years, it would be the duty of the chairman to check whether the bills were in accordance with the constitution before the session. However, if doubts were involved in the treatment of a case, whether the bill was in accordance with a constitution, different measures would be applied in individual states. Páll Pétursson, then member of the forward party, proposed this decree in one more two council members, but she did not succeed. As a matter of fact, it should come to mind that 1992, some 25 years ago, was under discussion here at the Parliament to see if Iceland should submit to the EEA Convention. There, a body of Congress is divided into two groups, to see if the EEA deal would violate the Constitution against the overlording of power, for example. Nothing happened in those years, and we know what happened to the EEA deal. He was approved here during the council in spite of much opposition from the memory of what was then part. In fact, members of Congress were divided in their position, but it was not determined whether the contract would go against a constitution that later appeared to be the case when it changed in the course of time; the exercise of sovereignty, to name it, has become extremely great, and some believe it violates a constitution. At this time, a legal opinion was made on whether the EEA contract would pass a constitution. There was a clear legal opinion that reached a different conclusion, but no one of the judges had the responsibility to reconcile them with a legal opinion and find out the truth. This has been discussed during this entire number of years, but it happens that in 126 C.E., Páll the son of Pétursson was reenacted in the form of a legal bill. Then there were the traders of St. Bryndís Hlöðversdóttir, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, and Lúðvík Bergvinsson's son. There this idea comes up again, and in that bill, it suggested that General Council operates on a legal committee that had the same role as I did earlier, stipulate the legislation on the legal contract of a legal adviser and other legal preparations. The Council of Legal Affairs and Council would advise on the preparation of legislators on whether a prime plan would be a constitution or an international agreement bound by the Icelandic State or whether the prime project would be a legal error. A fine report followed the bill and was one of the reasons why law should be heard under the Council of the Council of Iceland, not by the Council of Government. This was done by the president's permission: The main reason why this arrangement has begun to establish a legal body and not a legal office at the Council of Iceland, which would have the same role as that, is to strengthen the contribution of the Council of Law. The ruling order we live in, and based on the triple analysis of the state's administration of legislators, legislators and executives, has rightly been criticized for the extent to which the European Commission has been at the expense of the two sectors, and has to be improved to promote and improve the democracy of this country. Nor did this bill succeed, and it was reassigned once more. The current bill reflects the thought that regularly appears here at the council halls, i.e. that such an institution is absolutely necessary at the council. Transporters come from two categories, so there is a horizontal agreement that the matter has to go through here at the council. Now is the time to act and become a reality. It is vital for us as an independent state to have a careful legal system; for the Congress to produce legal rights and conditions that all citizens of the country can follow and that legal differences will be as low as possible. The trend that has taken place here for the last 10 to show 15 years in European countries is in the process of handing over some kind of legal authority. Here it may be said that there is legal uncertainty, but instead of solving it here within the house, courts have been determining what is right in the matter. This is unacceptable, considering the legal system we live in as an independent state. The procedure of the Law is being carried out closer to what happens in the English - speaking nations, which is based on exemplary judgment by the Supreme Court, after which the council establishes a law. We live in a legal system in the North countries. It is the lawgiver who lays the lines and creates the laws, so there are courts that judge by the law. With this inaccuracies, the whole structure of the law in this country is actually being changed, and therefore it is particularly important. It is also true to assume that the legislation should be in the hands of the Generals, but it has increased in recent years that the further regulations of the law should be carried out in a regulations left in the council; officials are required to write regulations on the particular law, and I believe it is too much and too much authority office from the Lawgiver itself. Many judgments have fallen into the prerogative of law. There are no regulations regarding specific aspects of the Regulation, so that the action required is illegal and pointed out that there is a power structure; therefore, regulations are more detailed than the law stated. This would be an opportunity to take our law code and look at it. I present in this discussion an inquiry to the chairman of the council, where I'm going to ask who the development of a regulations in the legislation of the General Assembly have been for the past 20 years. There is also one thing that could be seen here if a law office became a reality. This bill is found in six articles. They had a full discussion on the Board and Control Committee last year. Suggested suggestions, such as on who should be sitting in the General Law Office, were given. As a matter of fact, I don't really care how that group would be appointed or who would put together. Two. The bill says: ▪ The World Congress puts five men in a law office to be legally educated and at least two with a law degree. The head of the General Assembly shall recommend one of the proposals of the World Council committee which shall be legally admissible and subject to the court's office, two shall be appointed to the proposal of the University of Iceland, and one of them shall be a doctor in the law, and two shall be appointed to propose to the legal society of Iceland. An appointment period should be five years, but if the person appointed receives a solution before the time of the order is completed, another one should be put in place by the same rules. Qualifications for remuneration should be determined. If members of Congress have different opinions about how to appoint the five legal agencies, it is totally without cause. I want an agreement on how this should be done. Monarchs are presented at the council, and these change. There may be some things on the bill that the senators are not at odds with. However, the goal is for members of Congress to agree that the II Parliament's legal office will become a reality and on the grounds of which I have considered to remind them of a legal disaster; that a lecture at the outset will not be brought before the council unless they pass constitutions and international contracts and have no legal defects. You see, much too much time goes on for members of the council to discuss technical issues of a legal projector rather than on subjects that appear before the council. Congressers are to be preoccupied with material matters, but they should not worry that legal faults are involved, as they have shown themselves many times over the past few years. I've spent seven years here at the council, and more often than not, I've had to ask questions and wonder if the minimum required standards for the bills. The bill is in five pages. For those interested in finding out, it is on the Generals' Web site. 30, 30th. This occurred very early, so it is shocking that the case could not be measured until the end of February. In fact, the fall in the court in the commissioning work was to be said to discuss this matter. I think it is possible to say that no senator is opposed but needs to find a channel, find acceptable conclusions that all members of Congress can agree with, how to appoint to the Generals' Legal Office, and what extent it should be. As if I could see it, the II Parliamentis Law Office would come together with the International Committee, where a very good job is being done. There is also a great deal of professional activity that can be enhanced at the council and, according to the experiences of the past five and a half years, does not result from the number of legal cases and disagreements in the country. They're due to be reduced. It's also part of making peace with the council, making them respect. Differences between members of Congress would be greatly diminished when they have to handle matters in a material way, not technically. A respectable president. It's going to the committee now. I'm glad I finally got to recommend this for the seventh time. I hope that the matter will be discussed in a very professional and good way on the council committee. It is likely to be for the nature of the case to the administration and follow-up committee. I hope we have the best way of making this legal before the council ends in spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine talk and as far as I can see the most excellent bill. I think you're right. A senator has said, of course, that no member of the council is opposed to this, for this is the best case. However, I would like to ask a question. The senator's attitude is that such a law should be placed in a constitution. You see, I can't see in the bill that it directly affects the legal process in itself. Rather, it is the instrument that would be used by members of Congress, perhaps similar to members of the Committee or the fine service offered at the General Assembly. However, if the law was in a constitution, this could be made a binding process according to some formal rules, so that a law would pass through on a different table, some consideration would be needed. As far as I can see, that law would have to be in the constitution. In the bill submitted to Council 141, which was essentially the bill of the Board of Government to Constitution, there is 62 st. It discusses the phenomenon called law. I'm going to read it, with president's permission: In law, the Council chooses five men from five years of age. A Senate Committee, or a quarter of the general body members, may request a legal opinion as to whether a legal bill is compatible with a constitution and the national commitments of the state. The bill should not be given until the legal opinion has been passed. The law shall be spoken of in more detail in the law. As far as I can see, these are very similar cases. I wondered what the attitude was. A senator may be able to have this phenomenon in his constitution, whether it is that piece of paper or similar.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u56	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. There are many regulations about the council in the constitution. Congress has rules of conduct. I don't think the Generals Legal Office needs a constitution, so the Constitution is to protect the citizens' rights from the oppression of the state. It's an independent bill. Rather, let us look at the parallel institutions of the council, such as the emissary of the Generals and the Federal Accounting Committee, in this context. Of course, the council can set up the II body of law by law without a law against it in the Constitution. That's for damn sure. For example, the Constitution does not discuss whether to operate here in committee areas or to the Senate financial office. Congress has custody of its affairs, and this is part of it. Regarding the discussion of legal rights, which was actually carried over by the Council's Office in a vote in the council once made by the council, I believe that, as with the General Legal Office, the Constitution should not be put into place in a constitution or whatever form of law it was. A respectable president. I can't help it. I always feel rather uncomfortable discussing the proposal of a board from this time as if it had become some law or binding warrant for the council. They were just suggestions like any other piece of advice in the community, and like bills that happen to the council and other things. But I often feel that this has some binding effect on the council. [[The president calls.]] I wanted it to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u57	A respectable president. I'm not familiar with thinking that the bill of the Board of Directors has become a constitution, but I believe in a new constitution, and I find a lot of very good ideas in the bill of Government, including law, that is on the basis of which I call it. In this regard, it is just an example of organizations that do not have binding influence, their opinion does not influence legal legislation as such. When the General's agent gives the opinion of what he is sent, it is not binding, it is only the respect of the administration, and it is really respect for the government's opinion of how it is handled. I think it's quite appropriate when it comes to various institutions. But when it comes to this, of course, we're talking about a rather basic law that is in harmony with a constitution. I think it would be very normal not only to be helped to secure it, but it would be part of the legislation to ensure that legislation is in accordance with a constitution. I'm sure you do. While the General can certainly set up rules and set up a field of work, the Generals can also refuse to do so if not in a constitution. The General can ignore the emissary of the General. The General will be able to ignore Government Accounting. A general body can and has passed laws that conflict with constitutions. I think that's a problem, and I don't think it's a good idea that the Council can do that. I would rather not that the Council could, if at all possible, pass the authority to the General to violate a constitution without simply changing a constitution, I'd rather it be explained from the beginning as I know it was. A senator agrees with me. But the fact that the council can make rules, I see something as a problem. I don't think the General should be able to decide to violate a constitution. This isn't just supposed to be helpful to me. It's supposed to be a duty.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u58	A respectable president. It's a pleasant discussion, especially when it's loud. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson says that the council should not be able to violate a constitution. In my introduction, I pointed out that the laws here are sometimes so close and so uncool that the Supreme Court has failed in two ways, three times, four times, where courts have just had to go against the Council and the Lawgiver, pointing out that the constitution has been broken because of poor legislation. That is what we transporters are trying to avoid and prevent by establishing an independent institution, as stated in Numbers. Gr., ◯skil is equal in preparing cases and helping with the members of the Council, and he is a member of the United States. In 1st. discusses that this is not a prime statement unless a law office has made sure that the primary products do not violate a constitution; they pass national commitments; they are accurate, clear, and easy to understand; and, in addition, legal requirements are clear. All of this is so important in the judgment example, for example. has not been clear, and not strong enough to allow the State to take effect. So we come back to the Constitution, sir, by a respectable president, that the Constitution of every state is to protect citizens from every government abuse, no matter what government is ruling. An office such as the Generals' Law Office is not required to be in the constitution, for it is to be an independent institution which prevents the administration of laws that conflict with the Constitution itself and other laws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u59	A respectable president. I think it's right to give a brief talk to kill on a few things that I'm interested in about this subject. I think it's a good thing and I'm all for it. Thank you. A senator for volunteering. But I also feel that it is necessary to put it in perspective with a conversation that I had with a good friend. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir about where such cases belong, whether they belong in the constitution or in the law, as well as how institutions or things could directly influence the legal process. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir answered to me that a constitution is intended to protect citizens from the violence of the government, which, of course, is one of the most important roles of the Constitution for my evaluation as well. Senator. However, I believe that a constitution also serves another purpose, including explaining the basis of the legal procedure, e.g. and that there are laws and separation between the Commission, the legislature and the jurist. As famous as it has become, legal requirements are missing in the current constitution, yet we have courts. Many have declared their will to correct it. The point is that in a constitution there is more to it than the city's protection from the oppression of the government. It must also be absolutely clear, and it must be difficult to change an arrangement that is designed to be the foundation of the legal process. It's because of the reasons why I think it would be more reasonable to have this good suggestion basically in a constitution and then so that it would be part of the legal process. As I did in return, a bill has been submitted earlier, which I realize is not a valid law and not a valid constitution, where law is passed into 62.g. This law suggests that the bill should not be given until the court's opinion is accepted, but the role of the law under that proposal is very similar, if not simply the same, as it is suggested to be placed in the hands of this legal office. In principle, I think that the members of the general body of Congress are not very interested in presenting bills that reveal a conflict between a constitution, but as a matter of course. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has entered, however, it has happened. That's not good enough. It is best that the law and the constitution should be clear before the bills become legal. That must say itself. In this regard, it is uncomfortable that there are sometimes laws that humans do not agree on whether there is a constitution. Then there is the failure to take into account the legal rights of someone and the person's interests, and it ends up in the Supreme Court. A fine example of this is the Office case, which was discussed in the summer of 2013, which was very controversial but was adopted in the strength of the greater part of the Council at a large protest of the smaller section. There was then a disagreement as to whether there was a constitution, a violation of the 90th rule, and the Constitution of privacy. It's as if the bills must first become law, and then something must be done. All interested people need to wait for this to happen, not to be taken into account in any legal way. Then it must be reported, taken to a regional court, and eventually to the Supreme Court to determine whether or not there is a violation of the Constitution. How embarrassing it is when this discussion has already taken place in the conference Hall in the treatment of the problem that the law is the root cause of the problem, whether the bill is a constitution or not. This is to be held when the bill is approved, whether by the Constitution or by the Generals' law as an assistant office for members of Congress. That's why I support the bill, because I think it's really good to have an office like this here. Then I'd like to think that such an office would no doubt have helped a huge deal in the Theocratic Ministry discussion in the summer of 2013. It's not like this is a broken suggestion just because it's not in a constitution, far from here. But I believe it is best that this is part of the formal legal process. There's one thing I cut off on the bill. In the 5th. is, by permission of the president, in 2 Corinthians. mgUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: A law office employs its employees as much as financial resources allow and has the same conditions allowed to hire men to work on individual projects. It's a normal piece of law. It's important to keep such activities going. However, I would think, if this were a formal part of the procedure itself, which in my opinion would require this to be in the constitution, that it would never be a problem. It would be the common interests of the Parliament and of all the others who want to maintain the legal process above the head that a law office, a law office, or whatever would be financed so that it could deliver laws. There would be no question about it, there would be no need to make a special point: If funds permit. Of course, lawyers should allow it, and there should be no doubt about it. Well, we're talking about according to the republic's constitution, the foundation of our courts to establish laws in the first place. It is not as if the motive is not good or the function of such a law firm or law order is not important. These are the main speculations I have on this matter. As I say, I support the case despite the fact that it may not be applied in exactly the same way that I myself would like it or we would be in my company if it is gone. There are institutions here on a country that have a very successful service and a positive influence, such as the U.S. government agent who is highly respected, both in the community and as far as I can see. As a result, when an agent of the Generals decision or submits an opinion, it is taken into account. But that fact depends on the high respect that the office has. There is not exactly a law, much less in a constitution, that the approval of the U.S. Marshal's agent automatically brings further legal consequences, to form if he believes that violations of the law have no effect on the value of the law. This is because of the respect the office is enjoying, which has come from the fine work it has accomplished over the years. So the management board in general wants to follow those indications if in principle it agrees and feels that it can. I feel that when it comes to this sort of thing it should be totally clear in advance. I think it is a very important flaw that the Council can agree with the bills and make a law that is a rich controversy over whether a constitution is established or not. I really find that a very ridiculous place. That's why I'm celebrating this bill, but I'm reminded of 62nd. The bill of the administration board where this was done. It was assumed that this was part of a formal legalization process, which I think is much more desirable. According to this, there is nothing more to be said for now, except that this is a very good matter, and I sincerely hope that it will receive the full treatment of the council. I look forward to further discussions on this important subject and in general the important issues involved in the handling of the legislation, the work of the General and most important, and even the most precisely what to live in a constitution and what not and exactly how we want to have the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u60	A respectable president. In the beginning, I want to thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for declaring his support of this matter. I explained that it is presented as a bill, and of course, all members of the Parliament can influence how it ends in a vote and after the bill has been sent out for reviews and advisors have made comments to the bill, we may be making changes, so we are going to the same end. Regarding the senator's examination of the need to be placed in a constitution by the General's Legal Office, it is clearly stated in Article 2. The constitution that says, by permission of the President: The Council and President of Iceland use legal authority together. President and other administrations under the constitution of this and other national laws are subject to execution. The judges will administer the legal right to the court. The senator's case showed that there was no legal case in the constitution, but I would like to point out that chapters of the Constitution, 59s and 60s and 61s. ........................... About 2. The Constitution makes it clear that the U.S. General and President of Iceland uses the legal authority. Then, and I know it, the General himself, must be able to figure out how that power works best. That is why the bill is submitted so that a legal office will be established at the council so that the legislation will be properly chosen. We will also discuss the agent of the Generals. On page 18. 4 is an overview of its importance. He's an institution of the Generals. It shows that the office has been very decisive, and it has produced many opinions that directly highlight the legal problem so that this legal office would be supportive of the U.S. Marshal's agent, and hopefully it will reduce the number of cases. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u61	A respectable president. I may have said this rather clumsyly in terms of the legal rights of the constitution. I don't remember how I put it exactly, but, as noted earlier, it is not addressed to the Supreme Court or very close to the court, although it is mentioned and spoken of by someone. I'm fine with that. I would, however, consider desirable that things like the Supreme Court were in the constitution and that some fundamental factor in how the court's right to act, closer to those already there, are not very thorough in my opinion. A U.S. Marshal, like a surly. A senator will enter, a fine example of an institution that certainly has had a positive effect on the administration and the legal process. At times, however, an agent of the Generals may have the problem of not being able to finance his operations in a way that he would consider sufficient. I think if this were in the constitution, it wouldn't be a point. As shown in the bill, a legal office would depend on the budget, natural, like all institutions. It would be bad if, in the future, the wicked government might try to finance such an office, such as the wicked government, could employ an agent of the General Assembly. There are theories that there are sometimes consistent steps to reduce the effectiveness of institutions. If a legal office in a legal constitution were laid down, it would simply not be possible because the law would have to go through this procedure to become a law, at any rate, if it were to be called according to its standards, if a formula was applied in the 62rd paragraph. bill of the Council of Control. I think we're gonna do what we're gonna do. A senator may not agree on this topic in this discussion, but I think it's a good idea to keep this up, and I think it's very nice here to discuss the role of the constitution procedure, whether we agree on it or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u62	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. I think it's unnecessary to worry about the senator that it's not going to be too much when it comes to taking over the Congress to the 2016 budget by about 3 of you. Millions. It is obvious that the General Legal Office is expected to have a long - term greedy influence on the work of the Parliament. Once it is established and opinionated, and members of Congress will be aware that the need for legislation is long - termly saved. But I say that the case is presented, not as a savings bill, but as a professional bill to improve legalization. Here's Aldulis's agent for discussion. I'm also going to put a review into this discussion because these two institutions are members of the council's surveillance agencies. The problem with legalization of these two institutions is that they are post-contracted authority. Thus, the emissary of the Generals takes up a legal case and has to decide whether or not the rights of individuals in the community have been violated. The same is true of the State's Reconnaissance, with a follow-up on the government. It is now being suggested that the General Legal Office become the initial contact point of the legislation, that this is a prevention agency to produce good legislation, to reduce controversies, to reduce the number of cases needed to go to the courts, and to reduce the opinion that the U.S. Marshal has to deal with. So in the long run, it has a widespread impact, both professional and, most important, when problems are greatly increased because of careful legislation on the basis of the General Law Office.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-23-79.u63	A respectable president. I can respect it, and I have the same expectations that this will save for a long time. However, it is often so that when there are squares that have to be spent on to save money elsewhere, it is not very clear who will be the savings and, of course, the stocking of it at the High General Assembly for financial and related matters. Even if I agree with what you're saying. I'm not sure that any future secretary of finance, hopefully the highest, would agree, or that the Council would always conclude that this would be worth the effort. I also think it's difficult to appreciate. If this suggestion reaches out, which I sincerely hope to be the case, it is difficult to evaluate the savings, for it is not necessarily clear what it would have cost to have only a problem with legislation if it had not been for this legal office. It is difficult to estimate how much saving it would be, and even if people feel reasonably certain that long - term savings will not guide the financial resources to spend on it. Similarly, money may be used for political purposes either to promote things that are opposed or to walk over the ability of some institutions to play a role. Yet, I must join the fine point by the dog. Of course, there is a serious difference between whether such an office, even if it was an independent agency, a matter will be determined before it becomes a law or after. There is a fundamental difference. Hence, it is very important that this occurs in any form, whatever the way it is carefully implemented. So I can only welcome the bill and look forward to further discussions.
