ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u1	Borist has written a letter from the Department of Professional Road and Development that asks for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the question of robotics. 747, for travel studies, from Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Department of Social Affairs and Homeland Affairs and Environment and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u3	A respectable president. I wanted to direct you to the highest level. The prime minister because I am so desperate that I find it a little difficult to understand government policy and, in particular, the forwarding party in terms of tax snow and human property in taxes and the business of men from taxes. Especially is this so because we have recently learned that the head of the Agency's enterprise was involved with many of the leading sponsors of the Future Party in the past and later in a major business of fellow citizens of the continents. When this case came to an extreme, the manager took the respectable stand that I find commendable to step aside. They were shocked to avoid the forward party, which is not in the tax industry, i.e. Not the former prime minister, the president of the party, but the vice president, the present prime minister, the secretary, the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs, and the chairman of Congress, issued a statement as the head of the category that it was not a reason for the manager to step aside, resign. I'd like an explanation from the highest. Prime Minister why. Why is the position of the head of the advance party that there is no reason to stand aside from public work if people have been involved in business in societies? What's the highest message. The prime minister is to send to others who are involved in such trades about the advancement party and his government to such trades if he does not consider that if he does not consider it necessary for those engaging in public confidential work to be turned aside when it comes to trading from tax documents? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u4	A respectable president. The policy of the candidates is very clear, and it has been said in part here that we were given the president of the Economic and Business Committee, Sigurjónsson Sigllionsson, to lead them to work. I know she's been working really well. There is a report that the Committee has worked on the possibility of what can be done in this country. In addition to what has been done in the past, Iceland is among the countries most recently involved in informing such matters. It is also clear that the person standing here has several times encouraged those who have not done clean before their door, who have secretly taken money, and betrayed taxes, to clean up their doors. Since then, the government has set up a group of employees who are due to be made very soon with the membership of the head of the state tax, taxpayer, customs manager, and other members who are expected to go over the possibilities within the table to investigate, draw out, and explain that subject. So our attitude in these matters is very clear. Because of what? A senator named the manager precisely stated that he had formed two societies 12 or 14 years ago that had also been lax or for some purpose. Another company was for business that had neither been involved in his work as the head of the Agency's office nor was the forwarding party on top of anything created. It was a novelty business that just went into a foreign market. The other was no different from both Land activation and PGE in Reykjavík, since he was a means of communication, which often are lawyers. It is very important in this discussion that we distinguish between what is legal and what is illegal where people cheat on taxes. [[The president calls.]] That is where I agree with those who have told me that everything they can do has to be done. It was a pleasure to see that in Denmark as an officer are more and less in agreement with the ideas and proposals of solutions imposed by the head of a forward - looking group and by an independent party.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u5	A respectable president. I think there's a problem with this case that the government message is a little bidirectional. Of course, this is a concern because we know that there is a worm in the mouth somewhere. We know, for example, that an enormous number of those in the documents that have been purchased did not account for their fellow citizens in tax returns. It's been reported by the tax investigator. We do not know who foreign bank demands are. We know of one Icelandic demandsant named Wintris. We do not know if there are others, and we do not know when such demands were purchased. There is therefore reason to worry about possession of tax taxes. Therefore, I would like to continue and say that I believe that the head of the Agency has done the right thing, although at the height. The prime minister does not feel that way. [[The president calls.]] I want to go further. I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Are you willing to go further? For example, consider finding out who the demands of the Icelandic banks are, the Icelandic demands, and getting it fully on the table when they bought their own demands.... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u6	A respectable president. That's right, if I've understood why. It is true that this is the case when we want to send them a clear message from the government, and that I keep from the council, that we feel very unusual that new taxes are a haven to handle with money. We want to do everything we can to end it. At the same time, we have to admit that something that was frequent and legal in the United States was familiar. Then we must make a distinction between legal or illegal matters. When it comes to illegal things where people deliberately cheat on taxes, I want to, as I said before, agree with the proposals that cohesive, socipheric, in Denmark, came along and used May 1 to present, they need to be addressed. [[The president calls.]] I was pleased to hear how much harmony is in them and what I have discussed from this chair that it is necessary to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u7	Mr. President. V.E.G. Environment Minister went and signed on behalf of Iceland's Paris Convention on Climates during the days, but as it has been repeated, we and other European countries have decided to reduce emissions by an average of 40%. What lies ahead for this huge case, which should be on our tables here every day, is that the Paris Convention will be the first to become international law 30 days after the 55 countries that will free at least 55% of greenhouse gases on a international scale have agreed. Of course, our goal should be to validate this agreement as at all first, so that the agreement will be agreed to a global law. The president of France has done a great international job along with his environmental minister, Ségolène Royal. Their goal is that of this condition, i.e. that 55 countries responsible for 55% of emissions have been validated for an important climate meeting held in Marakess in November. However, I do not see a suggestion in the government's famous Constitution on the fundamental issues needed to complete, either under the standards of the Supreme Court. Secretary of state or supreme. Environment Minister, validation of the Paris Convention. I must think of it as just some confusion, and a bill of wood products has accidentally infiltrated, rather than the validation of the climate Treaty, since I believe that we will complete our validation in May. I'd like to ask the highest. Environment Minister: Won't it be over here this spring? Is there anything to wait for? Iceland cannot be waited on in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u8	A respectable president. Thank you for your excellent inquiry. I especially like to hear that people miss a lot of things on our excellent list that we proposed. This proves that people are interested in obtaining more, which is just a delight. But to ask. To us it is this way, in two steps: First, the signature, and then it is valid. Now Iceland, along with a number of nations, has signed this Paris contract, which was an exciting time out in New York City and enjoyed having participated in it. You're absolutely right. The validation is yet to come. I can say what. The contract is initiated by a senator, and we are preparing for the validation. When it will be submitted, I don't know exactly, but there are also thoughts about whether it would be necessary to submit it as a pact proposal for the council or whether it would be sufficient for a government. I'd like to tell the Senator and the House that I find it very normal, as was done in the Kyoto Convention, to do so by conjugating. I find it normal for such a big, remarkable contract to make the council reflect or comment on the events. But I'd still like to point out that it was very important, because we've been looking at Kyoto, that the Kyoto Protocol was now not validated until four years after the signature was made. It's only been ten days since I signed New York, so we're giving ourselves some time to do it. [[The president calls.]] But also it is true that in Paris, the senator has signed at least 55 countries that have a total of 55% of its emissions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'm not asking for any more cases in the Government Constitution, but I'd like to see there an important case that is urgent. I would think this was one of the issues that were urgent. Thank you very much. Minister for the information that validation has begun. Because it's the highest. A minister here brings up a parallel speech speed when it was Kyoto that we've only come to another location now. It should be said that the climate is a ticking time bomb, and it should be a matter of urgency for all of us. On the contrary, members of the Parliament conclude this matter with a measure of respect before the council ends. I encourage it to the highest. A minister to the honor, that it will be a top priority for us to finish the contract with validation. I think it's normal that it's done here at the council, like the highest. Minister says. I understand that the Norwegians are about to complete their validation this June. [[The president calls.]] It's very important to us as a nation that Iceland will not be waited on in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u10	A respectable president. I thank you again. We will observe that Norway has begun and is in a great league with Norway, that we are following Norway, and that both of these nations are then with the EU in a joint agreement. The nature of the matter must be similar with those two nations. We thought it was only natural to take these steps, but we would also have wanted time to see a little better on the European Union game, how they're going to handle things, we're with them. But the work is started, and we'll try to do this as soon as possible, and we'll be very careful about what Norwegians do and we'll finish the deal properly during this council. That would be very desirable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of government policy on increasing the number of eco-friendly cars. All I'm going to talk about is new energy cars, cars that don't burn fossil fuel, but that can use appreciated or electricity. I had a written request about this last year, and I got an answer that I didn't think was good enough. It refers to some goals set in 2007 and in 2008 and to some frame deal 2014, but it does not speak of what these governments have planned to do. It also speaks of an invitation to a driver's car that was advertised in November 2011. True, the game is more hostile, and some of these new energy cars are more expensive. But it's not absolute at all. They also exist of all sizes and actions, so it should not be an excuse. If a minister or state agency needs a jeep or a four - wheel - drive vehicle, they also exist as new energy trucks. I wondered, " How will the Kingdom take the lead? ' Today, in a sense, the way they buy is at the expense of institutions. In the Netherlands, people actually say that 2025 will not be brought into the country by car burning fossil fuels. We're in Iceland where we can get electrical equipment in a few years. Where's the bearing? She's the one I'm calling out here. Watching the world that ministers now buy new gas cars, I think it's ridiculous, and I call for a clear course. I can ask you again in writing, but I'd like to try to get some answers from the highest level. Environment Minister on government policy when it comes to new energy cars. How is she planning to drive the country into a battery? How will she make sure that there will be more cars that use appreciated and other renewable energy?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u12	A respectable president. I thank you for the inquiry as well as the interest here on climate. I think they're the issues, whether they're here on the land or elsewhere, and the electric accelerator is certainly a very big deal about it. It is true that the senator claimed, we should be able to do so more easily than many others, since we have eco-friendly energy and climate - dependent electricity. I introduced a climatic application plan. That's one of the biggest teams in the truck. They're working on this, and if the senator chooses to send a query, she'll be able to know exactly how the job is, but I can assure her that last morning we were talking in the Ministry about the electrical car problem. I think I previously said from this chair about the electric carvagation that we were a bit surprised by the loading station that they could be placed in apartment buildings. One way we examined it was by reviewing a building order, so I informed the members of the Parliament about it. There was some concern about burning defenses if it was done so that it would delay, and we had to look into it and consider it further. What we specifically planned for the parish was to arrive at so - called rush - loading stations in many parts of the country, trying to circle the road with loading stations so that they could not just use such cars within the city markets, i.e. On the southwest corner, they're all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. How happy we are to hear that everything is going on! I think I'm right when I say that electric cars don't get 1% of the fleet, like the situation is today, which is a very low percentage. For these vehicles, it is often said that there is an increased need for infrastructure, such as shock - filled stations, record stations, and so on. It's a little bit ahead of you, chicken or egg. It has to hold hands there, and I really don't think the public should be afraid to make institutions obligated to buy new energy cars. As soon as the cars are on the streets, someone will sell them electricity or credit. We can't be afraid if the whole country isn't in power now. As a minister rightly said, this work is being done, and of course it matters. I'm gonna let myself be positive and hope it's all on the top blues. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u14	A respectable president. I don't have much to say about this, but I think it's right that governments are primarily involved in stimulating people's interests. You should stress it even more than the fact that the State is doing all things. But there are also hard work in the fishing industry, and there are good signs. It is being considered how to power it too, especially its ports. Actually, it takes a lot of money, but the use and protection of the sea are under a lot of effort. I'd like to point out that the Capitol is just about to set up a shock station at our national expense. We're taking a step there. I hope that others will be en route and will set up relief stations. It also stimulates people to buy electric cars when they know that they can travel around the country and be loaded anywhere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u15	President. Now I've been doing a little research in the Ministry of Ministers and Ministry as well as the rest of the Ministers of this government. I would like to ask Prime Minister if he really believes that the issues listed in this list can be concluded so that careful administrative matters are involved. Now there are not many days left of this council, and among the things you regret when you consider the matter No. 2 is: Government law bills: National pay, natural resources, environmental protection. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether he has any plans to issue a change in constitution. I understand that the committee is meeting today, but I'd like to ask the minister if there is any chance that these changes are quite large from the proposals that came from the Council of Government to be legalized according to standard practice when a council is violated. I'd like to hear what the Minister's will is in this matter. Then, if you look through an overview of the state of Congress, we will see that 24 issues are under discussion. There are 21 of these that wait for 1st. And 27 cases are listed. Thereafter, reports will be submitted. After that, there is an enormous number of senators. How's the top? The prime minister realizes that we are able to do this in such a short time and that we have a careful administrative arrangement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u16	A respectable president. I think it's about the first question why. A senator has plenty of time to be careful and professional in his management. That's how it is. A senator knows that we have requested that the presiding committee reconsider the Council's work programme with the intention of completing this number of cases. Hv. The senator mentioned to form the number of people already employed by the council, so there is another part that will measure and work out. But with the plan we've talked about, being here as long as normal, without disrupting the election and its preparations, and then coming back in August after vacations, there's plenty of Senate days. If you compare it to that, you'll see that we're what we're talking about. A senator has been present for as long as he has often been faced with a trial in the last half of a month of the council, whether in the fall council or in the spring, and has completed it most of the time, I count this list no longer. As a result, I have taken it up to the directors to see if we should not try to complete that assignment. I believe that there are good changes needed. I'll mention national resources and increase the right of the public to participate, for example. It is true that the committee has not completed its mission yet. When she's finished, I believe it's normal for us to take up this conversation at the board of directors of the states or political parties at the council and to find out what was most reasonable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u17	President. It's amazing how people who are in the Minister's House and governments feel it's okay to arrange matters for the council. That's amazing. It is exactly the same people who criticized all too much government lawsuits when they were not in government. We have a few days left, even though we have a few days until June and even a few days in August. It must be clear to everyone that 75 new cases cannot be set out, along with all the matters in the General Assembly and that you can buy the lowlife that you can make this a careful administration. We all know that, everyone who's been at the General knows that it's not possible to bring such a big and complex as well as controversial cases into the council and expect careful administration. I want to, and I demand that we see an accurate priority list for this government on which national matters are absolutely urgent, and this government is the only one that thinks he can do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u18	A respectable president. Congress is working, a powerful part is at the council, and the election is scheduled for the election in the fall. Until then, it's months. Changes can be made to the work programme and to complete this project. There's a lot of names here. There are complex issues in the individual committees, in most committees, that require considerable superiority and can be considered complex, but that is normal, I think, while all the members of the Parliament are in full - time service to resolve issues that are urgent. [[Up front.]] The government has reviewed that number, there were many more cases in the Constitution. This is 75 or 76 cases, which we believe are possible to complete and then enter the election. I know that in many cases the government agrees with that, there are very few cases of political differences. [[Not 75 cases...]] Most of the matters are that most people agree that they look to better ways. [[The president calls.]] I know there's a good deal to get it done in the long time before we go into the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u19	President. I must begin by saying that I don't like to come into this part of the program and pretend everything is just like things are supposed to happen. The government owes us a special day. Human society demands immediate action. The government has made fun of the long list of issues already ahead of me. We are completely impatient with our efforts to participate in these councils. Still, there is also an urgent matter to ask about. That's why I'm going to do it right now. In yesterday's speeches, May 1st, on the international day of labor labor unions and workers, the leaders expressed their concern of a major violation of the rights of workers, young people. Young people do not know their rights, and they are violated as well as those of foreign workers who come to work in the great structure here. This is a very serious matter. Although I don't believe that the government or the government in general should wear the nose of each man's dress, it's a matter that needs to interfere. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she has contacted the labour market parties on these matters, whether or not she can tell us whether the government intends to take steps to prevent this problem that is more important to us. It's the greatest mollusk. That's why I'm asking the highest. A minister would be able to instruct us that she has taken some steps in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for taking up this case right here in question. I agree with her, this is one of the things I think we're all supposed to worry about. This is part of the sector and the interest we see in the Icelandic labour market, which seems to be part of the labour market to feel that it can violate people's rights in a media way. I've given high priority to my staff at the Ministry, to my institutions, to the labour department and the workforce, that we should do everything we can to support the labour market parties in order to ensure that the rights found in collective agreements and laws will be respected. I believe that the increased cooperation and monitoring with these parties is one of the reasons why we have seen issues arise and are being discussed in the media. For example, representatives of the workforce, employment agencies, and government tax managers have regularly met to exchange information and support one another in this work. I've also said that if there's something that needs to be considered in the legal environment, I'm ready to do it, and if that's necessary, bring another case into the council. They're preparing a co-work declaration that I hope will be able to introduce to you in the next few days, since we're working very hard on what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u21	A respectable president. It was not a hanger to anything in response to the minister, who is not a new one. But I feel that she agrees that it's urgent that we stop people from breaking up here. I'm not just talking about tax fraud. It just seems that people don't know what they're doing, and they're called on employers. They need to be absolutely sure that they are close. Last night the city of Reykjavík was told that it will take special care of all the laws and so forth so that people who may work in the city of Reykjavík will enjoy all the rights they should have. I encourage the minister to do something about it, not just talk about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u22	A respectable president. I repeat what I said, I've answered a question before. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar since I went further through what we've been doing. I have stressed to my employees and my institutions that we are there to support the labour market partners in ensuring that this is a law. We've been meeting together on a regular basis. We have covered and prepared it if it is considered necessary to make the adjustment but also to use the currently existing legal frame. The issues that have developed, among other things, are based on this cooperation between the labour market partners and the public. We're sending a very clear message that it's not going to be there. I'll have to interpret a word or two. A senator in such a way that she is agreeing with our emphasis. Once again, this is a contract right, it's a bargain deal to follow, and it's due to be returned.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u23	V.E.G. President. A great deal of talk has been made about the Lands Bank's sale of payments at the end of 2014 to several key executives and key employees of paying and investors working with them on the purchases. After a public discussion, it is clear that the object has been sold at considerable subsidies and that the government's national bank has gained hundreds of billions of dollars at the same time, making millions of dollars of money in an amazingly short period of time. V.E.G. The secretary of finance Bjarni Benediktsson, with prime minister, agreed to sell his shares on the Bank of Land in Paying had been a mess. The bank has now reported on the morning newspaper asking for comments from the Borg executives to see if information has been kept secret when the sale was completed. A respected president may say that this year pays $2.2 billion as a means of profit. This resulted in 3 billion reimbursement since the Land Bank sold 31.2% of its share in paying 2.2 billion to a group of investors and major executives in November 2014, as noted earlier. Last year's salary was 800 million. K. that was the first one paid since 2007. Thus, cash pay to the group that bought the bank's share in paying will be less than 1 billion. Over two years, close to 50% of the price. I don't have time now, Mr. Honorable President, to go over my career, but I note once again that I expect a better written answer to a query I've asked in this case. My first question to the highest. The secretary of finance is as follows: Was it before the sale of the Borg was done by the Bank of America's Bank, by paying, or by the relatives of the company, and/or the bank's property? If so, what price was it? Each enterprise owns prices in itself, especially when sales are planned, so it can be concluded that such a price has existed. I have received further explanation, more dignified president, because in the news it has been reported that the latest - I draw attention to it, the latest price of the company is in 1 9 to 26 billion dollars. So the item sold has grown to a total of 63/4.8.5 billion. value and profit of those who bought 4◯6.5 billion dollars. in a year and a half. However, if prices have not been made, it may be estimated that the value of the stock market was on a day of sale in accordance with the bank's recommendation and used in commercial management for its customers - the Lands Bank may be generally worthy of the company's worth when it leaves sales or helps its clients with purchases. Finally, there is one more question about the preliminaries: [[The president calls.]] Why was it not a premium in a sales contract for the bank's increased pay on further increases in value? Last year, 5.4 billion were transferred to cities paid for the purchase of Visa International at Visa Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u24	A respectable president. Last March, a written inquiry was why. A senator of similar topics answered as possible, and as soon as I shed light on my dealings with the Bank of the State, where I had asked the bank office that anything is important and about the bank's sale of Borg, it would be resolved in a way that trust in the bank and its managers would be assured. As per my letter to the 14th of March, the results of Bankisar investigation in this case are that the Borging hf therapy. has cast considerable shadow on the success of the Bank of America's recent losses and the fact that the professional face of the bank and its executives has failed. I agree with this, but it is highly critical that the bank's property has not been a route of open sales. It is in opposition to government policy that has the primary objective of building a healthy financial system and building trust and credibility in an Icelandic financial market. Then, in his letter on March 14, the Bank Office concluded that the Board of Banks had to take appropriate action to restore the trust and credibility that this treatment of the stocks at Borgs would have cost the bank. The banking board requested that this be responded before the main meeting of April 14th. In view of this sequence of events and with reference to my initial letter to the Bank Office and both verbal and written queries as far as possible. A candidate has directed me to this matter at the General Assembly, and I have repeated to the state of Bankament that it gives a detailed answer to the issues involved in this relationship, explain the findings of the case, and to what advice has been taken on this matter, both by the Bureau and by the bank itself. Of course, I'm expecting the Bank Department to inform us about these matters very soon, and then I will immediately report to the Council, which contains all the answers and findings of the Bank Office, which is coming through the Ministry of finance, and we will be able to review that report at the council. I have hoped that both myself and a client will receive from the Bank Office an answer to the queries that have been anticipated here to direct me as well as to explain further. Among other things, what was the value of the bank's share in paying and why was it not called for greater payment? On these two matters, I have to refer to the bank office's letter from March 14, following a letter that the Bank Office had sent to the Bank of Banks on March 11. This letter states about the price assessment, with the permission of the president: ◆ In the bank's reply, pp. 17 notes that valuation of a share of property in Borging was based on a cash flow analysis based on management management management management management plans, where it would have been estimated how much money the company's profit could pay on interest. The letter of the Bank Office shows the warning specifically asked about, by permission of the president: ▪ In his reply to the Bank of America, pp. 3 Shows that the bank knew that the option was in place. However, as a result of the bank's historical connection between Valior and the leading market section of the Society in the publication of Visa card, Valistor, one Icelandic cartographer, would have the right to benefit according to the potential innovation of the selection rights. These include the answers the Bank Management Board has criticized the Bank of Bank and has demanded reactions to the way the bank council intends to regain the trust and credibility that this selling therapy has cost the bank. It is as before that it is urgent to find immediate answers from the Bankandis to what has been done and to evaluate the bank office according to the cases on whether these reactions are considered to be satisfactory. I find it difficult to pass here in the end to mention it because of what they have to say. a scathing turn around, i.e. interest payments and potential prices of the company we're not discussing in the jumps here, that the state is through its holding at the Bank of Iceland a large majority of the owner of the concerned company. It's good news for the state as the owner of Iceland's bank, if it turns out it's been worth a fortune, and that has not been taken into account in calculating the stability process. [[The president calls.]] That on its own does not change the very essence of the matter we are here in, as it were, the proper handling and prosecuting of the property of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u25	V.E.G. President. I'm glad to hear what's going on in the grandest case. Minister, that there will be a discussion of this matter at the Council. The person standing here has discussed these matters many times and times. Last March 11 of this year's letter to the Bank Board of Banks shows many crystal points in what went wrong. For example, the National Bank's reply letter says that there has been a meeting with managers in which the work of Borging was introduced and directors' management programmes and that the presentation of managers and answers to queries has been submitted to a special data room. It also says that questions at the Bank Office were raised on the bank's worth of the bank's share of property in pay because it comes out of the bank, according to the estimated interest share, rather than V/H percentages. This was in spite of the fact that paying has not been paid for since the Society was separated from the Kremlin cards in 2007. Here is a significant controversy between the Bank Office in the administration of the Land Bank. [[The president calls.]] Since I was inaccurate in my speech here this weekend and said that the bank council had not participated in this unless, to a small extent, I would like to correct: Of course, the board agreed to this puzzle, and most of it has resigned, but the bank authorities are still sitting. That is a thought - provoking point.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u26	A respectable president. It's true what happened at the highest. Minister of the past, this case has cast a shadow on the Lands Bank and his position. It is important that all its facts be fully resolved. Now, on the part of the Bank Office it has to be presented with more information, and I welcome that statement to the highest degree. Minister that this information will be discussed at the General Assembly. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we may have to go beyond that. I still want to keep open the possibility that the General Commission will take this case for a special investigation because it shows a profound weakness in the management of property which is relevant. Sellers may have been deceived, and buyers may not have carried out their field service. We do not know exactly where the blame lies, but what this process all shows, and the U.S. Bank declarations on this also contain a very high opinion in Icelandic financial and financial systems, and especially that humans simply assume that prices can be determined on assets that are highly relevant based on conversation between people who are well - known and without the result of serious analysis. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u27	Madam President. This is very serious. The government's budget has already been lost by the Lands Bank of origins in four and a half billion dollars. the sale of an object at Paying, which was very unusual. Those senators who spoke earlier, why. Councilmen Kristján L. Möller, the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson and the Árni Páll Árnason have tried to dig in on this, along with other members of the council. The request was directed to the highest level. Secretary of finance long ago. I think it's 12 weeks from the fact that this inquiry came up, and it took a lot of time for him to answer it. And what does the highest. Minister? Yes, once again he comes and returns wealth. V.E.G. A minister of finance cannot answer whether there was prices or how much money there was. V.E.G. Secretary of finance also only tells us that, yes, the Bank Office asked how to restore the credibility of the bank managers. [[The president calls.]] What's going to happen? Secretary of finance doing so on this matter? Is he going to let it run away like a crack for a current? V.E.G. The secretary of finance has to squeeze his foot down harder than he has so far. This matter needs to be explained, and he needs to be informed. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking you, what are you hiding in this matter? Maybe it's a cover-up. Secretary of finance information from the National Bank? That is what we need to find out. For example, going around behind the top. Secretary of finance? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u28	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the answer, but I have to say just as it is, in these answers there is nothing. I ask about the value and cannot answer that question. Was there prices on the land bank, on the paying, or on the related business at the time of the sale? If so, where was it? I ask because in the news from Borging or wherever they came, the Lands Bank, it wasn't told long ago that the recent remuneration rate at Borg was 1,95,26 billion dollars. That's why I'm talking about the state's funds through their property at the Bank of the United States as a result of a total of 6◯8.5 billion dollars. in this year and a year and a year's profit for the citizens of pay, their key directors, is in the range of 4◯6.5 billion dollars. It's absolutely true that Iceland Bank has one of 63% involved, but these are the facts that we have here regarding the sale of the Lands Bank of Borg. I agree with what. paritaprevir Snooper, Össur's Skarphéðinsson, asks him why can't I get the answer to that question? Is City withholding information from the National Bank? Is the Lands Bank hiding the highest. Secretary of finance information? A respectable president. Here's a worm in the mouth. Other factors have been investigated in smaller magnitude cases. I think this is a very serious matter, and now that this answer is finally made, or not- answers, to key questions that have been given added meaning to this report of the latest price assessment, it has to be engraved on that. V.E.G. The minister of finance has to go forth more intensively with his institutions, which help to create the answer that has come forth that does not answer the question. [[The president calls.]] No one needs to tell me that the value of the company is unknown at this time. In view of the sales, 2.2 billion per 30%, the company has been said to be over 6 billion dollars. worth it. [[The president calls.]] Today, that is what we find in 19◯26 billion. There is no petty growth at this time. This will have to be done much more research.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u29	A respectable president. I've been explaining how I've been asking it repeatedly to the Bank Office that everything will be made up of this possible sale and will bring the answers to the council. I also have on the basis of the information I have discussed in my answer that I have information about the price value on the other hand and the warning. That was specifically asked. I think people should be a little bit careful to claim today about some particular loss that the Lands Bank had. I'm interested in finding out why this has been done, especially since my ministry has become the tenant policy and we ask for it to be followed. I don't want men to belittle it, but here in the discussion, that the bank's managers and management have made mistakes in this matter. It is not as if the Lands Bank had dealt with the situation or the bank business, that everything was taken care of and that men were criticizing the trial without cause. It's not. People have accepted the fact that mistakes have been made at the last meeting of the National Bank. With regard to the price assessment of 1 9 to 26 billion it has not been published anywhere to be known to me. I've heard of such prices, but I've never seen anything, so I don't think it's a good basis for a discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u30	You're supposed to find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u31	We haven't had any of that kind of food done. On the other hand, I know that an Icelandic bank now owned by the State paid off about 5.4 billion this year because there was an expectation that this property would be worth more than was previously put into the books of Iceland Bank. Nor has it been observed today that the National Bank has sullied matters, planning at least to appeal according to what is being presented, but we will be able to discuss this further when further answers are received. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u32	Madam President. I want to direct my inquiry to the highest level. Financial and economic minister, who will take the share of the Icelandic government in the Civilization and then gave a talk at the last annual meeting of the Continents. In fact, this speech has not been published on the financial and economic websites, which is unfortunate because it was a good speech, but I was thinking of writing down key points in a speech at the top. A minister I found very interesting, and I intend to share them with the Senate. V.E.G. A minister pointed out that Iceland's highlands were a unique place on a global scale, and emotional activities had been limited in the discussion of energy efficiency and energy sources. The evidence often had not been fair when discussing nature protection, the argument to appease certain areas because of their beauty and values, their feelings. V.E.G. One minister noted that it was important to realize that many could be prepared to delay the construction of other structures in order to protect certain areas and that thinking was becoming more common and that it would be positive because nature had value in itself, unrelated to what image and identity we wanted to maintain. I thought it was a big speech from the highest. Minister and thought she was pretty a few things. That's why I want to ask the highest. In view of the fact that the possibility of establishing a national park in Iceland's central highlands has now been well discussed by the highest evidence. A minister noted that the area is unique globally beautiful, and we cannot overlook the fact that the main mechanisms and high-voltage lines are those that threaten this area if we look for building another type of activity. Of course, this has long been the temperature of Generalis sales when we discuss individual activations and individual lines. Here is a suggestion, and even two suggestions from members of the left - green field and members of the Continents, however, that this area become a national park. Travellers, outdoors, and nature protection organizations have together signed an appeal to the Generals for us to take this step and pursue the central highlands and make it a national park. That would mean we're agreeing to keep the line layers and activation outside the area. So this is a big deal for that company as the highest. Minister has a possession in. It is noteworthy, however, that according to the repeated surveys, a greater proportion of the country's population have the idea that the central highlands will become a national park. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he believes that this possibility will be considered correctly and, in view of his excellent speech at the annual meeting of Continents, whether this is not just something we can attack here at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u33	A respectable president. I thank you for my positive comments about a talk at the annual meeting of Consecration, as well as for the opportunity here at the Senate Hall to discuss these matters in a broad context. This question is specifically asked on the grounds that the minister of finance will take the share of the State of Land induction, and it will be associated with ideas of the peace of the central highlands. Then I cannot help but assume that, at the beginning of the financial and economic secretary's work, it is important that the Minister has no authority to deal with the business of enterprises such as Land activation or others on public property that operates in a competitive market. It is that the EFTA, ESA, is very closely monitored by all government relations with the company and public minister's comments on its issues in order to ensure that governments do not affect decision-making or energy sales agreements because of the risk that the company is used for political purposes and thereby violate strict rules on the EEA's territory on government grants. I must have said this because the matter is in line with the property share of Landing. In recent years, I have recommended that there is a general framework for the protection and energy use of land areas that we prepare for the political policy in this field trying to assess facts and arguments, including emotional arguments, which I think are important to find better in the discussion. I have to say, we're creating a better space for such reasons... is no more than a sign of the great improvement that has occurred in Iceland, both in economic terms as well as in other things. Activation options that today would be completely unacceptable came to the evaluation and implementation of the past, possibly because it was simply such an economic need for the progress with such activation options. However, I believe that, in other words, we use a frame plan primarily to weigh the evidence that all of us assume the most reasonable policy in these topics. It is then a business such as national activation to make its decisions within the limitations of such a policy. I believe that Iceland's highlands are a globally unique place and are happy that there is a great deal of solidarity on continued protection in the centrallands of Iceland. In my speech at the annual meeting of Conspiracy, I said that proposals for the estimate of an explosion line were understandable and that other options must be available to build up the electrical transport system. The debate on further use of energy resources and environmental protection, such as the establishment of a national park in the middle of the country, is so fundamental that it involves the interests of all the people and future generations. It is such that the political debate must be objective and based on a professional basis. This is not a question of some odd project, some unique priming option in the coming months, some interested people now present or shown in the months or losses, this is a subject for the coming decades and still beyond. Therefore, it is important that we succeed in the careful discussion of the Assembly Hall, implementing ourselves over the traditional political fanciful theme over which there has been too much talk about this subject, and doing well in all this discussion and policy development. I think that this discussion has to be a fairly meaningful conclusion for the entire population over time. This is so big that it is difficult to get anything that you would like to say in a few minutes' speech. I'm just gonna point out a few things. In that area called the central highlands, we already have several fortresses. We also have a somewhat dense road system. We have other types of skins that have happened, but we do not have the center of the highlands sacrificed or somehow slaughtered. I'm also going to point out that peace is not a simple decision that no human activity can be done in the affected area. There may be a number of alternatives to making use of nonviolent areas. That is why I feel that before we examine all the consequences of peaceing the entire central highland, there is too great a step, without further thought, to say, "Yes, let's do it, in a moment's setting. [[The president calls.]] I feel that we need to examine all the aspects of the matter, in the light of the factors I have mentioned and that of others. [[The president calls.]] But I don't compromise my opinion that I don't like it, and I really don't think it's a completely impossible idea of high-voltage lines over the central highlands and I can't see it going on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u34	A respectable president. The Continental Conference agreed on a previous policy that the central highlands would become a national park. In harmony with this, we members of the party have made such a suggestion at the General Assembly. I'd like to celebrate the concert in a case of the highest order. Secretary of finance, and he agrees with him that it is not a matter of outstanding priming. However, the idea of a national park in the middle of the country is based on the fact that a general policy has to be defined, for otherwise, there will be remarkable activations that will be able to, in the long term, corrupt the possibility of creating a national park. A fine example is the Crimea, who was being discussed last winter and is now making the latest proposal for innovation in the central highlands. What matters, I think, when men approach this, I understand the greatest concern. Minister of some era, but I also want to reiterate that we are in the position that tourism has become the most important currency industry, and then peace in the interests of tourism is different from an economic point of view. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I want to encourage the highest. A minister to further admiration for these matters but to celebrate the tone of his comments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u35	President. I'd also like to celebrate the concert in the highest language. Financial and economic ministers. I'm on the environment and transport committee and they're discussing the proposal of a panel of greens on national parks on the central highlands. I can tell you in this discussion that this proposal has been very effective. She has had positive suggestions from a number of professional sources and has had such a reversal of this discussion. Perhaps most important, because the value of the central highlands has become clearer, but also because people have come to realize more fully that the idea of national parks does not mean that nothing can be touched, as stated in the highest court. Minister. A national park is a good way to divide sensitive areas into different protection levels, and therefore I think that the views presented in the case of the minister and the views presented in the case of a candidate are exactly consistent under the hat of the park. [[The president calls.]] I encourage ministers to consider it with us as one of the important matters that we now complete before elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u36	A respectable president. I'm just here to emphasize that there's an ever greater and greater agreement on these matters. Even if I agree with the highest. A minister to consider the matter well, I also think it is worth mentioning that Piratars have recently adopted a legal policy. On September 10, 2015, the problem arose. paritaprevir In the Árni Páll Árnason and the Conspiracy proposed a national park on the central highlands. That same day, ostracism was promoted. paritaprevir In this year's April 20, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and her left green proposal similar to April 20, adopted the following policy, by permission of presidents: To establish a national park covering the entire central area. The implementation of a national management and protection programme according to the IUCN guidelines. That a national organization will take account of the management and protection programme of the central national park. To ensure funding for the construction of the park and to maintain its more intensive land control and related education. I wanted to share it with you during the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u37	Mr. President. The leader of the Independence Party made three very important statements in his brief speech earlier. First, in effect, he struck out of the board an idea of a high-voltage line over a supernova. That's extremely important. Then I think there's a very decisive proportion in these councils against such a project, but it's the biggest shark in the middle of the highlands. Second, he said that this discussion would take time and said that it would not be possible in the decades that would damage her prospects. It is important that the head of the Independence Party declare it because it means that he is expected, at least for himself, if not on behalf of his own party, to declare that there will be no attack on some of the projects that were very discussed by the half of his party at the last legislature that would, of course, violate the idea of national parks in the middle of the country. Third, he concluded that there was now a great convergence on this matter at the International Parliament. I think that's a very positive thing to do, to the top. The minister of finance and the head of the Independence Party believe that their views have developed in a way that is now a major debate here at the council. [[The president calls.]] This could be said of the highest. Minister what Steinn Steinarr once said: Most likely, we are always becoming better men.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u38	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this discussion, and I want to agree with the highest level. Secretary of the economy that we need to warn ourselves of peaceing the whole of Iceland's highlands for all the workers at some moment's work. I agree with that, too, with the highest. Secretary of the budget that other options are available for a line over explosion land to improve the main power transport system. But the choices can be more natural. It so happens that the task management of a Framework Programme has twice established the classic Scorpio. In addition, more than a part of the work committee at the General Assembly has suggested that they be initiated into a colony. [[The president calls.]] So I agree with it with the highest. Minister, let us be careful to address the entire highlands for a moment. [[For the record, do it today.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. Councilmen who have spoken and the highest. Minister for his answers. I understand, of course, that he does not discuss land activation business matters, but he generalises his opinions. I agree with the highest. Minister that we have certain tools to promote our political policy. On the one hand, it is a budget on how to use and protect, and on the other hand, the Council can make decisions about national parks. I think it's very important. paritaprevir And Zoggis, the Svandís of Svavarsdóttir, pointed out that a national park does not mean universal peace. There may be a very different area of protection and such as the highest level. A minister rightly points to construction in the highlands. We know that. But there may be different areas of protection, as we know from abroad. So I think it would be very interesting if that were so. The Environment and Transport Committee examined the current proposal, which is about to be introduced into the park for the establishment of a national park in the middle of the country, in agreement with locals and other relevant partners, and to seek that there will be a national park in 2018 when 90 years have passed since the peace of Þingvalla. When we arrive at the Field today, we thank those who had vision at the time to look to this place as our sanctuary, both in nature and in history. I think that as we look ahead and think about how future generations will look at our work, it might be a great victory for the council that is present if this proposal is taken for serious discussion and payment. I hope there is an ever higher level of harmony among the different categories in that matter. I think we'd be doing a lot of good for future generations if we could see the formation of a central national park 2018.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u40	A respectable president. This has been a good discussion, and in many ways it reveals a different viewpoint at the council, which at the same time makes sense that there is quite a good harmony. This is precisely because there are different reservations and conditions for peace within such potential national parks that I am not prepared to give an open answer and say: Yes, I support a national park in the middle of the country. I don't know exactly what that means. Just as I feel very sad when people come up with discussions about national parks in the middle of the country and say that, as I have seen, I am not referring to members of Congress, but not long ago have an international press conference on this subject. It claimed that the person standing here and then the prime minister was eager to operate at 80 locations in the middle of the country. And, as it was said in English, we would be such hillbillies, that it would just have to stop right away. This is an example of an unconvincing case. Completely out of thin air, not to promote solidarity over as important a matter as we are. For the vast and uncontaminated nature of Iceland, things that are interwoven, not just national culture and history, but the growth of everyone in this room, I think. It is one of the worst things to be said of humans that they do not have natural feelings or that they do not understand the value of protecting what is valuable from that measured point of view because it is so far removed. [[The president calls.]] The only thing I think we're actually talking about is how we're going to get into this thing and how we're going to make a good decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u41	V.E.G. President. During the last days and weeks, there has been considerable debate over the state of Fell in the South and its proposed sale. Of course, the reason is the earth, since the east back of the glacier belongs to the earth's fall, while the larceny of the lagoon's wallet belongs to the State. Jackion is one of Iceland's major natural bulbs and an enormously popular resort to tourists. It tells us a story about the importance of the area that Jackion has been on the nature calendar since 1974. The lagoon is unique because of its sequoia near the sea and its impressive icebergs, which frequently lie on the lagoon and drift to the sea. However, the lagoon's life has not been studied much, but unlike the other Icelandic glaciers, glacier is a life - giving force, which is close to the sea. Then there are Breed and icebergs very suitable places to study glaciers and glaciers history, say scientists. Thus, the possession of this country is a big interest issue for the tourism industry, but it is even more the result of nature's protection. Now there is a ideal opportunity for the Kingdom to come in and possess the whole land around the glacier. For example, the Environmental Protection Organization has suggested that if the glacier and the British Deserts belonged to the nation and part of a national park, there would be a basis for a national protection on a life - threatening basis, protection and monitoring of the area as well as educational and educational visitors on individual nature and environment. So I want to ask the highest. Environment Minister: Does it consider to be a matter of nature protection that the state buys the land Fell in the South, which is at the top of the glacier, or is taking possession of it and paying for property benefits? Looks like the earth will be brought up. It is proper to note that since this inquiry was submitted, the South African businessman has made a decision to place the earth on a commercial market and to cancel the auction route, but I do not consider it to change the main question. It remains. However, I would like to ask the highest. Minister: What is the minister's position on the idea that he will be part of a Lake Earth park?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u42	A respectable president. Thank you for the query. In general, I would like to say the questions that, of course, this most important and unique region of nature, which is of utmost importance for our tourism, is that there are no conflicts and conflicts that take place in the area and in the service it needs to perform. Unfortunately, the necessary structure in this region has not been established in the past few years despite the presence of rural and existing shared systems. In fact, Jackion belongs largely to the State, to part as national property, and to some other extent to the State. The part in private rent is on the east side of the national park. Therefore, the development of the region is of great importance, that it is overall to protect its natural environment for the future and to ensure that its use will become sustainable, safe, and devoid of natural quality. Hence, it is only natural that the State cooperates with the Hornafjörður, and after landowners took a close look at the best possible outcome. It is also essential that effective and sustainable tourism can flourish in the area for the future. Like what? A senator pointed to the earth as falling on the east side of the glacier. On the other hand, the glacier itself is by far the most in the possession of the state, but the land of both the north and the west of the lagoon is the people. There is a clear, distinct boundary between the earth of Fell and the peoples. In the natural world, a glacier is on a scale where the area is unique in nature. According to regulations in the new nature protection laws, the state has prerogative rights on the Earth as part of a natural memory. That law is stated in Article 37. Is It Designed? No. 60/2013. It is, therefore, that if it comes out of nature's principles, it will be determined fully whether the terms of the premium should be used by the law will come to the end of the Earth in the South. It is proper to remember that this is an example of the use of property items on a natural calendar. However, the Environmental and Resource Ministry, in agreement with other clients of the Ministry, will take into account a physical opinion whether it would suggest that these prerogatives, on the grounds of the law, be sold on the basis of the sale of the earth. However, the question is, Is it possible to take possession of the earth? There is a completely different process within the laws of nature that stipulates such privileges of the state and has to do with the plans for peace if the agreement with landowners is not reached. Such work has not been carried out in this area, so it has not been considered. I find it very interesting to see the future of Jackion being part of a Lakejork National Park. They have already been discussed with the part of the lagoon within the national property I reported earlier, i.e. Westward. At the same time, the melting of glaciers in recent years has resulted in a section of the northern glacier that is likely to be within the national park's limit because the ground has been growing. In this context, I would like to mention that in conversation and consultation with the minister of Education and Culture, it has been initiated upon an opinion whether or not it is proper to attribute the Waters Earth's National Park to the UNESCO World Memorial as reported here, due to this unique nature Memorial. Part of it is to see if the park may need to be extended, including the park. in order to connect it to the sea. On the other hand, it should be noted that under the law on Lakeh earth, it is not mandatory that land inside it be owned by the State but is authorized to negotiate with other landowners.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u43	President. Regarding the subject under consideration, it is important to underline the laws of nature protection, i.e. In the case of the Supreme Court, the law of premarital rights and the terms of ownership, as stated. Minister, some sort of disagreement on a peace-telling process. I want to pray to the highest. A minister in his later reply to to tear it down in some way, if it has to do with the time, whether it is possible to examine more areas that are a little upset with the country and are private-owned than are written in a natural memory file, so to speak, if, in fact, they are even peaceful, but in a sort of upset about their trade and partnerships, etc., whether it is possible to apply national policies and with appropriate requisitions that would replace them. For example, I'd like to mention the area around Geys, in the Valley of Hawk and others about corpses.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u44	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear what you're asking me. The senator, also rejoicing with them, I think he reigns at the council. It's interesting to hear the harmony here that there's no good knowing if all the major natural spheres of the country become private. And also, which I did not know, that it is the premium that can be taken advantage of. That's why you might be a little more calm about it. I'd like to welcome the people here and the people in this room to see the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u45	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the discussion. As has been attributed, no Icelandic person is in doubt about the nature protection of the area around the glacier. So I feel that it is clear from this discussion that it is reasonable to think that the Earth of Fell will be part of a Lake Earth park and that the work it takes to be done exactly whatever the current situation is about the possible sale of the earth. However, by then the sale will similarly be tested by nature protection laws for premiums. It must not happen that humans will lose their opportunity if they offer to unite the earth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u46	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister of the environment is very positive when it comes to the perplexing issues presented. Forecaster of Árnadóttir Þóra-Jannad. I believe that if the Earth falls into the market, the state will take advantage of the premium. As a minister said, there are many examples. I bought at my time as environmental minister 2/3 Domintiffs, on behalf of the state, at 800 you. K. In 1994, however, a small amount of money was taken today. But they were highly divided, especially of my sect, the common people. But that's another story. I like the idea of the highest, too. The minister tore here, expanding the park to the sea, and thus tempted it with the highest force. Education Minister to put the National Park on a world calendar. That is why I feel that it alone deserves to the highest degree. A minister would look at it if the earth did not come to the market that the laws of nature's protection will be applied and well supported. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u47	Madam President. I thank them. Congress members who have participated in the discussion on this inquiry, as well as at the highest level. Minister for her answers. This brief discussion has naturally revealed that this issue is far from a group of predominantly catechisms. This is exactly an example of a case in which I believe it is possible to achieve a very good, broad, cross - political reconciliation. I like to hear what's going on. The minister said that the state has a prerogative, and that in fact, if or when the land is sold, the state uses that premium, and I want it to be the highest. Ministers further for good work in it. I think exactly, as I told you earlier, this is an opportunity for the kingdom to come in and possess the whole land around the glacier. I'd also like to celebrate the ultimate. In fact, a minister benefited from the fact that Jackion is part of a Lakejork national park. In fact, I believe that if this country arrives on the UNESCO calendar, it is even more urgent than before that the country has the whole area around it. I think it would give the area more weight and more money for the state to influence the country there. Finally, I would like to correct our policy in the left movement which is very clear, but it is that natural bulbs are supposed to be public property as we are going to be, and maybe I would like to direct that additional question to the highest level. Minister at the end what her vision is about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-02-105.u48	A respectable president. Yes, I truly agree with a captain that this was a pleasant discussion and a very positive one. We sense we have an opportunity for intervention, but I'm not a financial minister and you always have to get money. To answer the last question as a question. A senator made it possible for me personally to agree that our main natural spheres may have to belong to the State so that we can walk through them in a way that must be done and in order to maintain it all properly. And it involves the marvelous and delicate territory we are considering, that we feel that our associations are not in good enough, and that may be the worst. For first and foremost, as this has happened to all, it is this harmony and harmony when it comes to our nature bulbs. We Icelanders and I don't want to do anything to ourselves or foreign tourists to show our most important places in depravity. It must be taken. We've been listening today at the highest. Ministers of finance, his heart is also very appealing to nature, as we have sensed. Let all of us rely on the success of the situation.
