ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u1	A respectable president. I wondered, in view of the programs available here today and the presence of a minister on which way to travel. Industrial and commercial ministers are at this time preventing him from being here and explaining to the council why the management board, which was more than to be cleaned up in that category, has quit. It was a very controversial hearing. Did he finish what he was supposed to do? Did you just finish your project and get everything ready for your 2016 tour, so you don't have to do anything more? Can any member of the government explain to us other members of the Parliament what has been done, how humans have prepared the present summer? There would be every reason for that, at least I would think that the independence party and the president of the council would make the way for people to get an explanation for this unreachable afterlife.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u2	The president can inform you at the highest. Minister has an alibi, and the President knows he's at the highest level. Minister's in a meeting abroad.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u3	To answer, financial and economic secretary, health minister, education and cultural minister, social and housing minister and secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u4	President. I remember that earlier in the winter or spring, it came to the highest level. A minister of finance, so said in a talk chair, it would be necessary for all of us to take along to rebuild trust in society. I think that was under discussion about when insurance companies had become very aggressive in their money and shared large profits. I strongly agree with what happened to the minister that we are all trying to build trust in society. Much change took place in the council and in politics a few weeks ago. Then there were people outside, large crowds, who insisted that the election be announced and that there would be much conversion in the house. That's when they said the highest. Minister intended to shorten the terms of one assembly. I understand, more dignified President, that it means that you have to vote for the first Day of Congress, which is supposed to be the second Tuesday of September. I feel that both of us are in a position to trust one another and to have people trust us here, that they are about to find out exactly what is going on in these matters and what it meant when it was the highest level. A minister said that the elected period should be shortened by about one assembly. Does this mean, as I understand it, that the next council which I think will be 146. will be set after a new government has taken over, when the new council is sitting here?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u5	A respectable president. When the government groups decided to continue their cooperation on the basis of the greater part of the council, despite changes in the Ministry of Presidency and a new government, it was stated that this government is fulfilling certain assignments that it has been doing for the entire winter and that all committees are involved. It's a question of unique cases and it's time to say, specifically, abduct the currency standoff. I come here directly from a meeting on that very matter. It is expected that there will be a bill at the council. It was said that once they completed their assignments, the party is entering an election. We said it could be in the fall. According to this, a new assembly would not meet in the fall. I see that, at this point, we need to change the meeting day with the evidence that elections were ahead and that a new assembly would meet at their end. Men have been calling for a fixed date to be chosen. We've had many conferences with the government, and we've always put in the same message. We're talking about the autumn of this year, that we've been called often, but we've also made it clear that we needed to know that there was no abnormal situation at the council, that a case had to be established here. In view of all of this, I see it happening so that the terms of the term are actually reduced by one legislature, which depends on the circumstances and issues I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u6	A respectable president. I'm sorry, I'm not much closer, but I'm going to try to understand. I understand that we will continue to do something here in June, after which some assembly will meet in August. The law must be changed, I think it must be, so that a new assembly will not meet another Tuesday in September. Should the council be ended before that time, or should this election be extended? Yesterday, for the first time, we discussed a very important financial program. Even if I disagree with the issues and emphasis laid there, it was a significant milestone to discuss that financial plan. I ask them, will the secretary of finance bring up a financial bill based on this strategy for elections? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Or what does he think? I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u7	A respectable president. Work on the construction of the budget bill will be held. Work on the construction of the budget is a mixture of extrapolation of various sizes based on economic forecasts, which is regularly published, and then political decisions, guidance found in law, etc. We will do everything we have to do in order to prepare budgets for the next year's budget. In itself, it is a practitioner. A senator asks about which we would like to have a good conversation and cooperation with the government opposition, i.e. How do we want to conduct the Senate until the fall? When should we vote according to what we're here to do? We've been very open with it. We've discussed this in many meetings with the opposition. At first, the requirement for choosing was immediately. It was elected here at the council. It's been cut off. In the meantime, we wish that the Senate can function normally. However, in due course, prime minister brings up a crisis proposal and the decision on how long the council will continue to function thereafter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then there's an election.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u8	Mr. President. I want to talk to the highest. Secretary of the Management Board of the Energy Company of the West. I spoke here yesterday of the administrations of government in public communities, how these governments were organized, and how they were very different. I'm asking the highest. Minister of what he intends to put in the administration of Orcsins Westf. which will hold its main meeting May 12th. Also, I would like to carry it under the highest. Minister if the government law has already been broken. Minister only appointed one replacement in the management of Orcsins Vestfjörður. I want to hear from him what was going on, whether the law was broken, and how he intends to respond. I also want to talk about it at the highest. Minister if he and his Ministry have adopted an independent opinion of the government at the Power Company. There has been strong criticism of the management of the Powerbus with regard to energy manager advice and other specific factors. A government official has dismissed himself, and criticism has been observed by a deputy of the government, who believed that he was a substitute, but something else appeared, and he was not invited to a meeting. I'd like to get an attitude of the highest order. Minister to these factors and whether the Ministry's own independent opinion is in progress over a control mechanism in today's Energy administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u9	A respectable president. We're in the government as per law. I don't know that anything has been changed since I've been in the Ministry. I don't know any better than the same chairman of the board of directors is still in the Power Set as has ever been, i.e. was before I arrived there. Then there will always be changes in human life, as it happens. I don't know this one mentioned, that there was a shortage of extra-warrants or elections at the main meeting. I'm not familiar with the matter, and I've not heard of it, and I also have no case in the council that concerns the administration, have not been given any reason to take care of the Ministry for any matters relating to government decisions. It is not unusual, in itself, for some disagreements to develop or for some change of opinion about man - made management in a society such as Ennis Vestur, and many examples of this as we know it. Some of them have finally found their way to courts, but I don't know that there's no such disagreement about The Power Company.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u10	Mr. President. I could not hear anything else in the news this morning but, quite frankly, that the Ministry of finance admitted that there was a violation of the law that only one deputy had been appointed to command and that men there felt that it had to be corrected. There was a need for a change in the law, since it was felt that only one substitute in the government was needed. A minister has to find out more about this. I think it's very important to get an advance. A minister would try to look for more views than just the political views of any group at his time. It appears that this government and various others are subject to public societies. It is very important to look for others to come to terms with these matters, and although the divisions would be involved, they should look forward to a professional appointment like the ones I'm referring to here. [[The president calls.]] I would like to suggest that members of Congress have taken a stand on the left greens and the United States have appealed to State Reconnaissance to examine the specific mechanism of command by the Energy Company.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u11	A respectable president. As I mentioned, I wasn't aware that something had been missing during the last Enisy's main meeting in terms of the vote of more vices. I didn't have that meeting. When circumstances require me to do so, I have no choice but to appoint members of the government. I have not used myself for special changes and will not participate in this discussion under the premise that people are not working on a professional basis. Then I guess it's time to ask myself, " How am I to put the board on a general board of Ohf. Partners? ' It seems that at the council, there were customs or traditions that developed to consult groups of members of certain societies while their customs and associations had not been accepted. It's different in the management system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u12	President. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of education on his opinion and policy as to the fact that Icelandic students pursue education abroad. Does the Minister have a good idea, or is there anything about the arrangement we have known for so long and here, that Icelandic students leave outside, educate themselves in diverse universities, and then come back here to live and work, which the minister sets up a question mark? I'm asking because under the highest command. Ministers have repeatedly dropped the cost of living and school loans. IN 2013, WIN has decided to restrict the quality of the loan workers by their distribution regulations up to 30% since 2013. President. Why do ministers of this sort cut off from our studies abroad? Many find that they do not get the initial education loans, perhaps halfway through the study, but then suddenly they sit by not being able to pay the school fees or seeing no way to support themselves or their families in that country because the loans go from year to year. Is the Minister pleased with this plan? Does he support them? Is it reasonable to have suggested that students receive a loan and then repeatedly change during study? Is it not so in Iceland that we simply make up for people who go outside and get a wide range of education and experience and come home in handy? Is that not our common understanding? Or is it so that only those who are now allowed to be educated in foreign lands who have money or whose parents can continue to support them?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I would like to say at the outset that we the leader agree on the importance of learning abroad. I personally took part of my education abroad, and so do many in this room. It's not about that question, it's about the other thing, it's about the policy that should be based on the loans when deciding what to lend to each country. The policy here being carried out is that we should seek to find the framework in that country and lend the loan according to that foundation. Of course, there could be a different course and no correlation between the loans and the alimony in that country, but I think it is reasonable for the equation fund, such as the Icelandic loan fund to look into the framework in which it is in that country and lends in accordance with it. The fact is, over the past few years there has been a trend where, in some countries, a distinction took place between the alimony and the alimony site. There are a number of reasons, but there are. during the last term, the student loans were increased by 20% in Iceland to deal with the inflation, which in turn made it impossible for them to get more real, but loans to students abroad where the inflation had been 1◯2%, perhaps 3%, were also increased by 20%. These loans went on to give a tremendous increase without specifically explaining how they were going to do so. That meant that, for example, it means that... In countries such as Hungary's loans, 60% of the country's university is expected to require alimony. My question to why. A senator who comes up behind, and what. Of course, a senator will decide if he will answer, if it is this: Do we not agree to have the policy of lending in accordance with the need for living up to the needs of living? [[The president calls.]] Or should there be a different course? If the result is that they are borrowing in accordance with the need for living, should we not try to agree on who they are, discuss them, and then lend them the credit?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u14	A respectable president. Yes, we can certainly agree to lend in accordance with the need, but SINE, a foreign student relationship, has been highly critical of the fact that LIN builds its databases on a report made by the Analytica Commission for the Agency. That report is extremely flawed. Clearly, it is a disgrace to the way she has been won. Students from abroad have noted that statistics were not collected from Eurostat or OECD reports but, to a large extent, from some website that acts like Wikipedia, a page that people can load their ideas into. The base for e.g. Slovakia had been filled out by nine persons at the time of this report, the report that LIN aims. It is the highest level of conflicting methods. The U.S. Minister of Education supports? [[The president calls.]] What kind of work are these?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u15	A respectable president. I think I know where this misunderstanding comes from. I'm going to read to each other. The senator comments from the editors of the VOLV website on a news report on the State Radio: A clinic wants to state that too steep a news story has been covered. Analytica's report, published on the website of the Internet, refers to the website Nnubeo.com, but it cannot be seen to have been the main source of Analytica. On the contrary, Analytica's proposal suggests that the most solid basis for building calculations for the process is the plans of individual schools for staging costs. A fine look [this error in the report] is required. Clearly, it is. A senator has not observed this news but has adopted this irrational claim. It seemed to me that she carried them with a measure of weight without carefully examining the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u16	I studied...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u17	Let me point it out. A senator on this report, because the error occurred. The speaker repeated the talk chair, and the petition has been respected. [[I'm a long...]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u18	A respectable president. I'm going to go back to where it's been gone. The report in which the conduct of students abroad is calculated took into account only the fact that people were on gardens. It was not taken into account how different options so - called parks or parks are. It's a great thing to do an example of Slovakia. You can get into the park before 188 euros. But what is it? Is that comparable to the gardens we offer in a country? It is not taken into account that gardens, especially in Eastern Europe, e.g. in Hungary, which costs 75 euros, Poland, which costs 100 euros and in Slovakia at 188 euros, social resources are a problem. People who enter these gardens need to be in a very difficult situation, so they get in. There's often three or six of them in a room together. These figures cannot be compared with what we are going to offer to Icelandic students. That's why there's a prerequisite. The cost of living is not included if the student rents his own house and needs to buy furniture. He may need to buy an Internet, need heat, electricity, and so forth. When we're talking about the extracurricular advancement of students, the framework for living is totally underestimated. This involves our criticism. This is merely net expenses and based on students'being on parks who are supposed to be comparable to those in this country but are not. You can't compare student apartments, individual apartments offered here, with six people's rooms in Poland or Warsaw where people don't fit in but themselves. In many of these cities, especially in Eastern Europe, real estates are much higher than those reported in this report. It is only hoped that people will make serious comments about this. It is a question of whether people can continue to study or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u19	A respectable president. It is proper to remember that when we borrow students in Iceland, the sad fact is that we are still considerably below what is calculated in this country. In fact, we have managed to raise the loan, so now we are up to 92% of what is expected to be a move in the country. We in this government have arranged to raise the loans to students here in an effort to fog us closer to zero. The Eastern European countries are referred to here. According to the data I have, in 2013 in such countries as Slovakia, it can be evident that in 2013 it has to be considered. That is not to say that it will be taken down and loaned to the striped forwards. That in itself is not necessarily so, but it makes sense that if a person has a policy to lend in accordance with forwards, he must look for evidence of the real future. Of course, there is a debate, and then, of course, it is good to discuss it. But if we all agree on this, we're at least I've been in this conversation for a long time. I'm telling you, the data that's been processed seems to indicate this image. They're looking for the best data. It's called for data from the high school itself. It is called for by data from various public institutions to identify each of the initiatives in your country. But it is quite obvious, as I mentioned earlier, that when a decision is made to raise the loans to students in Iceland about 20% to face 20% of inflation, and at the same time about 20% in countries where inflation had already occurred, there was a small amount of error. It cost quite a bit of money at the same time as we got cut down in the high schools in this country, up to 2 billion according to a report by the State Accounting. A decision was then made to increase the absolute value of almost 20% of loans to students abroad. [[The president calls.]] All of this should be taken into context.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u20	A respectable president. Yes, it is true that this need to be considered in context. Should we discuss this in this context, for example? that students who go to college don't have the right to work on unemployment during their vacations? Why don't we talk about Icelandic students having at least one travel loan to travel back and forth? Not in a year of study, no, we're talking about one degree travel loan. If you go to a master's study, you'll have a one-way loan of 46 thousand. What are we talking about when we're talking about moving forward? Do we want people to travel back and forth around Christmas? Are we considering even the needs of more expensive books? Taking into account the need for loans at times to pursue expensive studies, e.g. Why do you want to buy a set of instruments? 100 euros, 100 pounds. Midge, you know. Minister of Education and Culture, can we live at 1,000 pounds in London? Every dollar is important to this student. I think it's the best. The educational and cultural minister needs to correct what has been observed and take into account the criticism that has been observed regarding this strategy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u21	A respectable president. For two years, I studied in London, England, on a donation from the loan fund without going further into it. [[- For alimony?]] Many in this country have studied abroad on these loans. I just want to reiterate this, and don't forget, Mr. Honorable President, that a few years ago, a student's loan to students abroad was an increase in percentage as much as it was done in Iceland. The evidence for an increase in Iceland was that inflation had become 20%, and the student should be brought even to the student. [[Up front.]] At the same time, foreign student loans were increased by 20%, despite the presence of inflation in those countries from 15 to 63%. [[Up front, you've forgotten...]] They recognize the position formed there. What we're looking at is that in some of the countries we're looking at, there's a substantial rise and a loan far beyond the cost, even up to 200%, and they're trying to correct it. [[Up front.]] Nor should we forget that what has been happening here in recent years is that we have been making up for students. [[The president calls.]] I point out that we are raising the student loans for students in Iceland, which are far below what is needed for the development, and of course you have to look at these things in context. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u22	Mr. President. I'm on the same line as the last two. Senators. I want a little less than the highest. Well, Minister of Education and Culture at the level of the dollar. It fell, remember, in the fall of 2008, and it affected the interests of students abroad.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u23	... loan...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u24	The individual's education is of great value to him and cannot be taken away from him. Education is valuable for individuals and for the community as a whole. Therefore, if fewer people are studying in this country than they wish, it is serious. After the last decisions made by Icelandic students, just questions about equality for study are raised, and people wonder if education has become a kind of luxury that in some cases is just more available. The representatives of the Federal Board of Students from abroad wrote about the subject in the News newspaper during the days. They claim that with the LIN's decision to change the distribution rules, it should not even open the door to present students abroad to complete their studies before they reach the loan limit. They give an example of a student in London who sees the need to stop studying in order to come home and earn the money he has already borrowed. Another student in London sees the need to borrow much higher interest on the new private loans, so he can finish his degree. A medical student in Slovakia is asked to use reduced staging loans to the school fees where the amount of loans you borrow for school expenses is covered. I'm asking the highest. Minister to what he says about the claims of a representative of the Union's Board of Students abroad. Does he think they're wrong? [[The president calls.]] Does he run the scene mentioned by the representatives?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u25	A respectable president. The Management Board of Icelandic students made the decision on the basis of calling on outsiders to review and investigate the cost of living in different countries - because it is very different. [[Up front.]] The policy is clear, lending in accordance with cost of living. That is why some countries had been loaned to cover living expenses, and that was the case. This was done in one step. It's policy. I suppose that's what. A senator who is now running for the lead in the company of officers agrees with me that the money and the financial resources of taxpayers are to be used best to ensure an equalizing so that we are borrowing according to the cost of living in each country. I don't think that's why. A senator of the opinion, a respected president, that there should be some difference. Then we will remain with a debate as to whether this is the right thing to do or not. Of course, we are always open and present for interview on the evidence, ready to listen to all the reasons for it. Of course, if you are able to persuade and reason in a way that shows that you are different from what you think in these data, you will take this into account. Unless what? But I'm going to go. A senator, an officer of a U.S. class, agrees with me that we should use our funds to achieve the most balance so that we may borrow in accordance with the need for a living. Is there another course possible, a respectable president?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u26	Mr. President. We clearly understand how these changes affect the loan rules set out in the LIN. We as well as others do not want education to be a luxury, nor do we want it to be for those who are better off in the community. That's what has to be guaranteed. Of course, we must demand that the conclusion be guaranteed for study equality and that education that is important for individuals, their lives, their status in the community, and for all of us in the community as a whole is not just for those who have rich parents who can support them in foreign studies. It's unacceptable, and it's the requirement that we match it for education in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u27	A respectable president. That's why. I think a senator would agree that it has been relevant for a new distribution principle to use extra space to raise loans for children, to raise the cost of living on land from 90% to 92%, which, of course, will benefit the largest group of students. We're gonna go for a second. Surely a senator can agree that this is important. In the past, the pay market had been up from 750 up. K. Up to 930 up. K. For the course of 2014●2015, and on the side of the Board of Treasures, a number of other measures have been taken to ensure the benefit of the loan, to ensure that he will continue to carry out his role. I'm not convinced that it is, for example, that it is. I think I'll borrow less than 209% more than the calculated amount. Is it not better to use the limited resources that we have so that they pursue as well as fully as possible and that they benefit as most people, not to be loaned a substantial amount of money from the material and other sources under it? How might it be possible for a respected president to feel that it is a matter of justice to lend long - distance money to some places or to others? [[The president calls.]] Should we not try to balance this and make the most of the money, so that as many as possible have the best opportunity to study both in Iceland and abroad?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u28	V.E.G. President. I'm here for a word exchange that took place between the highest levels. The secretary of finance and the acting council president of the United States, please. paritaprevir It's Bjarnadóttir's Valgerður. She was trying to get the election done. Now I'm going to pray to the highest. President to join the Council and protect us from the arrogance of the men who lead the government here. It is said that to make a decision, Congress needs to be performed normally. Here, the government council members carry up the work on committees and work to be fully involved. But being subjected to such presumptuousness must be devastating and must work against the ability to function as a body of Congress. I wish for the highest. The President is about to enter a vote day and to make it clear in the mind of these haughty ones whatever matters are to be done, even though they have presented this quiet 76 - case list. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u29	A respectable president. I welcome the opportunity to discuss government measures on the part of my partner in the basis of the evidence that has been most recently discussed. To begin with, I want to say that the Icelandic government is and has been in international cooperation aimed at preventing any form of tax fraud through societies, long before it is a global problem. In such areas, money was cleaned, and many have taken advantage of the arrangement that has been approved to save from taxes and income. With the active involvement of Iceland in the OECD Community partnership to develop a common standard for information exchange on financial assets and their income, Iceland is among the countries that have had premeditated measures. Iceland is in the custody of the countries who have decided to tape the standard. I enjoyed it at the time to participate in the OECD common meeting in order to end it by working together. In fact, I would like to state on grounds that OECD deserves great honor for the emphasis the organization has shown on this matter or that it has been placed on these matters. First of all, I mention the foreign partnership. Secondly, I'm taking part in Iceland's BEPS operation program under OECD as well as the G20s. This plan aims to coordinate the actions of participants against tax collections and tax evasion. Third, I'd like to mention the strong involvement of Iceland in cooperation with the Northern countries in creating information exchange agreements with low taxes, but 44 such agreements have ended. All this cooperation has already led to great success, both in the country and in the international level of war against tax fraud and also in financial resources, but such industry often leads to tax fraud or vice versa, as proved by recent local examples. Some of these agreements ensure automation in the information process; other contracts make sure we can ask for information if there are any reasons to do so. But all of these are measures aimed at removing the secrecy and finding out what is going on. In addition to this international cooperation, I'd like to mention that the Icelandic government, as we know it, took a milestone step last year when the Council gave funds to buy tax data from abroad to further development for the tax investigator. This purchase has drawn attention to many places, and the government has been praised for its efforts. I feel that at the time there was evidence that it was possible to buy the data, it was only in my Ministry that a tax investigator would consider any good for the principal operation of the office to obtain the data. We never had a disagreement about the price. In time, we concluded that the price would be up to five times what eventually came to an end. The Commission carried the heat of all communications on this matter and did well to reach a conclusion that has benefited the office and thus the government in this struggle. These data include creating similar information to the multi-digited Panama Documents, except for the scope of financial assets and the number of owners is even greater in the Panama documents than in the documents purchased. As noted in the media and elsewhere, these data are now in progress. Among other things, it has appeared before a Senate committee. The data is in operation for both the tax investigator and the taxpayer. It is urgent and takes priority where it will be processed as soon as possible. Will the person here do anything in his power to speed up the progress of the available benefits, whether it is necessary to make adjustments or support for the tax work. We have already had written contact with the office and have offered every kind of assistance for this purpose. We have thus made it clear that the Ministry of Economics and Economics is prepared to discuss with them measures that allow them to have as full information about the property of those who are committed to the country. This applies to both the processing of the already acquired data and other data that would have to be acquired. With regard to the future projects, I would like to assume that in the cause of written contact with the office the Ministry has already received detailed comments from the agencies, in many respects comparable to those received by the Council's Economic and Business Committee at its time. Action programmes are now being prepared on the basis of the information received from the EICs and on other issues involved. Three aspects of the procedure can be said to be done. First, it has already been requested by a representative in a special service group introduced in the United States on April 29 of the past to make proposals for a change in law, regulations, or procedures that together would form a general government strategy against tax collections, tax frauds, money thefts, and the use of tax industry in general. The implementation of OECD joint proposals and G20 countries, or the so-called BEPS operation programme, becomes part of the work group. This group will include representatives from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, as well as from the Ministry of Presidency, from the head of state tax from the head of the tax, from the head of law and toll. Then I expect the staff to agree with the district attorney's financial reforms because these fractures are so grown that they can be the same as I could before in my speech. I cannot help but imagine that the staff would benefit from meeting with a Economic and Business Committee, that the Committee would benefit from the information that the task force intends to approach the project. I would also like to suggest that there was a clear route from the Committee to the staff. If there's special emphasis, even on the contrary from the council, which men would like to include in the work of the Committee, I'm a spokesman for that possibility. I have suggested that the staff report their proposals to the government no later than June 30th. Second, a special team with outside experts must be assigned to evaluate the extent of funding opportunities and avoidance in national areas while estimate the loss of income from such activities by the government. It may be said that this is similar to ideologies and is presented in a proposal to the council from the left greenmen. We have an obligation to draw out and explain the extent of the tax fraud. What is the scope of the problem? How much is lost? How many times did the design of these countries, these areas, have been used to escape Icelandic law? I guess I think that's normal. I think it's our primary duty to give this reason now to take it out specifically and become the main project of this special team that I intend to assign to this role so that we can have a better basis for a discussion on the scope of the problem. But it has to be said, just as it is that ever since a collapse, there have been a number of claims on how much we have lost particularly in taxes due to partners in these areas with tax frauds. I'm just gonna mention numbers I've taken care of in recent years. I've heard there were 300 billion people waiting for fair taxation somewhere in the Caribbean. I have also recently heard that the tax fraud takes tens of billions of dollars a year. I don't know what the truth is. I have a general feeling that this may be a bit exaggerated numbers, especially that there are 300 billion of us waiting somewhere. I think it's a bit much now, and let me have some doubts about it. But to the extent that this can be accomplished, I feel that under the circumstances we now have a special obligation to do everything possible to find out the truth in this regard. I have reason to expect that this can be put on high priority and that the results could be ahead as soon as possible, preferably in the middle of this year. But I have to say, as it is, that you just go blind into the ocean with the amount of time pressure that is realistic in putting the group in place. Third, I'd like to report that there is now a bill being prepared that contains some suggestions from the three tax institutions I believe can implement without further preparation. That bill will be given to the government and then to the Council in a few days. I think it's important to keep it in place that I stress my acceptance of right now is part of the general plan of action I present here. Then I'm going to finish my case by saying that I notice an idea that we use business pressure to get even more results. I think it's necessary for us to participate in a global partnership on such environmental policies. I don't think Iceland's clientilities will achieve much, and I think it's a matter of business pressure against countries that refuse to share information. That's what I'd do to support my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u30	A respectable president. I would like to say at the beginning of my speech that there is a positive result of the Panama Documents and the discussion of the past few weeks that a complete turning point has been made in the discussion of taxes in society, their importance and the importance of the righteous taxation as well as the benefits of taxes. We have prepared a comment on taxes based on the view that paying taxes is a loss, paying taxes, tax returns is something that is negative, and that tax reforms with all legal and substantiate means are both desirable and reasonable. I think the discussion over the past few weeks has changed, has finally turned the debate on tax returns to what it was a few decades ago, when the most proud farmers walked about and pointed to the stress sheet to witness their prowess and rejoiced to contribute much to the community. Hopefully, we are seeing a fundamental change in this regard, that we stop accepting that tax reforms are desirable and justified, and instead look instead to have simple, clear, and just taxes, certainly, but in that way those who make the most of them do have the most to do so, and that will be a vast community partnership. A respectable president. In that sense, I welcome the tone of a talk of the highest order. Secretary of finance says that the will is to root out tax fraud and to bury completely about its scope. I'm glad you're here. It has long been the Union's fight to search for and eliminate the amount of tax fraud. It is a cause for rejoicing if the government is going to act in a real way. In recent years, we have experienced that when a conversation arose about the possibility of buying material in demilitarized societies for use by the tax authorities, we heard a lot of numbers, we noticed. I argue that unless there had been a specific and determined pressure of the government at the General Assembly, it would not have been fulfilled at the time. I reiterate the importance that with the evidence that has already been purchased fully. While we were in the government position, we recently had a meeting with the tax investigator, who explained the job to the data. I think that's very important. The secretary of finance earlier said that all power will be put into place to ensure that it is fully useful. So I take it also to ensure that human power and action at the head of the state tax, which needs to open some of these cases, as well as with the tax investigator to ensure that the situation is not in vain and that all of this information will be won. I also believe that we should go further and add a general tax law that is a positive authority to the government to purchase any kind of tax fraud, stolen money, everybody. I think there would be a great deal of good justice. It would have a tremendous warning effect, and I think it would be true to also say a positive entry at the World Council to say at this point: we're changing direction. There will never again be a place of refuge. Anyone who helped with that work knows that he has a legal obligation to inform them and that it is absolutely clear that the tax authorities have enormously broad resources to use everyone for information, no matter how it exists, because this is a matter of stealing from the community that is important to us to eliminate. I want to remind you in this context of the importance of trying to open up the truth about what really happened here before a collapse. We all know that Mossack Fogseca was used extensively by Iceland's Lands Bank. We also know that other banks did not use Mossack Fogseca. We also know that in the world of property in those years, this solution was often spoken of, the Lands Bank and Mossack Fosseca, as a solution when it came to hiding money, would be an inexpensive means of hiding money. Consequently, other banks offered better and more expensive solutions to free and hide money. It's interesting that we haven't taken care of it. 600 Icelanders, on the other hand, had some sort of communities through Mossack Fonsca. It must require the question: What did the Council do? What did the Greast during the years before a crash? Therefore, I also want to say that we need to find ways to open these books wide open. Do we have the legal authority to demand that we open the books so that we can study them? Or do you need more legal evidence to do so? I think this is really important, because the data leak is, of course, just the top of the iceberg. Interestingly, in all this information, which covers an enormous number of national leaders and leaders in all sorts of strange countries and all kinds of rich peoples here and there in the world, there is not one single American. Is that a coincidence? And what seats? It is also interesting to think: If this is the scope of this one law firm in Panama, what is her market share in the market of law firms in Panama, or in other countries that have the circumstances to hide money from people? I fear that what we have seen now is only the top of the iceberg and much larger amounts of money have been exported from Western economics and hidden. It must also require that we reevaluate whether we may be confronted with the fact that what we have believed to be facts, such as the figures on equations in Iceland, whether they are really prophylaxis, or whether there is money that has been taken away that scurvy and will give us false security that we actually live in an equal community, but then we may already live on the bottom of the earth and all the information may come up on the table in an equal society. I want, sir, a respectable president, to reiterate the suggestions that we in the United States have offered to the General on these matters, and then, in particular, the proposal for a business ban. I especially welcome the highest words. At the end of his talk, the minister of finance agreed with our suggestions in this regard. I look forward to seeing the State Department's work on that proposal. I think it's very important that at this spring, the General sent them a clear message that we are ready to give clear authority to the government to participate in international action. I'm willing to work with that interpretation at the highest level. A minister earlier said that there is a client's ban on the governments that are not prepared to work with an international effort to set things up on the table. I'm especially happy to be the highest. Ministers have taken on that idea before. Finally, I'd like to review the twelve points approved by the European Commission class two weeks ago and I've been making a subject here from the platform. There are various measures to take on this position, and all of these underline the importance of taking advantage of international initiatives at this crucial time in order to learn the correct lessons from Panama documents and to establish new guidelines that people can trust to ensure that the welfare of Western society will receive the tax revenues generated in those countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u31	Mr. President. Thank you for your report. Secretary of finance, and to say first, this debate has developed quite some time during the council and the tone has changed from the first revelations in Panama's documents to the highest level. Ministers and ministers. According to members of the council, this was nothing to be specifically discussed. I also remind you that when these matters were first discussed, someone felt appropriate to talk about the council members of the low court, but as the discussion has developed and matures, I feel, and I let myself rejoice more and more. Congress officials see that this is a big and important subject because it is a matter of something in the community. It's about the fact that in these taxes, people are using their own taxes to store their money either to avoid taxes or to take advantage of the fact that in these taxes there are rules other than we have decided in our society, often little rules that no one has, and so can be said that these persons get by the rules that we as a democratic society have set for us. Therefore, I'd like to say that the use of tax snow not only undermines the welfare community, which may be the main reason why international institutions such as OECD have an army against this activity but also undermines the democratic community. Why do I say that? Because people choose not to comply with the rules adopted by elected representatives at any given time in our Western society and to take advantage of the secrecy and orderlessness in these areas to avoid them. But it is positive that this discussion has developed. I welcome the highest words. A minister before that the government is preparing a plan of action where he referred to our senators' proposal for the left movement for a special investigation, that it is important to investigate the scope and impact of their community in Icelandic society. I have no doubt that when it's checked, it affects the whole community, including the part of the community we call a career. Of course, the competitiveness of those who do not take advantage of African society's activities by working at the same market as those who make use of such companies and their benets. I hope we're far away from the thought of talking about demaritals as part of a healthy business environment. There is nothing healthy in such use. I am glad that I feel that my understanding of this matter is growing. This was about tax fraud and tax returns, and what their scope is. Clearly, there are tax frauds and tax subsidies that have nothing to do with societies in society. There are a lot of tax frauds in other sectors, and it is difficult to determine the exact share of the tax documents involved. Of course, it's an account size, but it's been estimated by the government tax manager that there are 80 billion annual tax collections in Iceland. That's a huge number. We've been talking for many years about building a new hospital, a treatment core for 50 billion. So it's just part of a tax charge. We're talking about operating in the medical system, how much it costs to make the health system the highest level. The health secretary proposes to balance payment, and then he gives the figure that removing the payment rate at 6.5 billion - 80 billion in tax collections. Of course, it should be a priority for all of us in here to get in the way of these taxes because they undermine our welfare, but they also undermine the thought that we live in a community. Some time, the U.S. Supreme Court judge said that taxes were the price we paid for living in a civilized society. In an excellent article that Paul published in the magazine of the governor, Tennd, published by the late philosopher Páll Skúlason and stated that the tax was our contribution to a society guided by all our successes and future generations. The talk on the tax industry shows that taxes are not just technical solutions, as I feel the discussion is about, that is, about how a percentage of the taxes are set up here and there, that is contrary to a philosophical and political subject, and is about how a community we want to build. When people tell about them by conforming to other rules, even though they are not illegal, they raise questions about whether we really are building a civilized society. This is a basic question, Mr. President. If the Panama Documents and the unveiling of them allow us to put on a program such fundamental questions, we should just celebrate it, and I rejoice that this information has been leaked by the free media because it gives us a tangible world record of something we've certainly read about in the Alduary Research Committee report, shows us tangiblely how this has been done and how it's been practiced. How important it is for us to face this question! V.E.G. The minister spoke a great deal about the government's Action Programme, that the Economic and Business Committee could then be consulted and proclaimed a bill that will likely be about the indications that the government's agencies, such as the head of the tax and the taxpayer, have brought in over the past few days and weeks, including to the Economic and Business Committee, about what you can do and how you can change your legislation to take better care of these matters. There is much to do. This was shown by two meetings of the Committee that were held with these institutions. We can do much to help deal with the problem if we agree that it needs to be handled, which I hope we are. But I am stressing that the Council is involved because I don't feel that this is just a matter of government and institutions, it's also about an institution taking this discussion and that cross-cutting opinions will be carried out on the actions to take place. The Panama Documents and the information there, now the last of the Republic's President, but in the past at the highest level. Of course, a minister in the government and in other countries has greatly influenced Iceland's reputation in the large world but has also greatly undermined confidence here in the community. Perhaps it is our biggest task at the Allied Congress of Iceland to restore our trust. Therefore will I say in the end, for my time is past, that now is the time for the whole assembly of the Icelanders to deal with this matter. I realize that the Executive Director may find it best to keep these matters in his place, but if we are to be able to build confidence in society's institutions and politics after this great news, I think it's a real challenge to how we work at the General Assembly of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u32	A respectable president. Recent information on Iceland's property in low taxes and possible tax return has led to a large discussion here in the past few weeks. In many lands, this kind of conversation has lasted a long time, and much work has been done in recent years to counter taxes. Sadly, they are not a new phenomenon but a serious lesion that has diminished the ability of society to build up the welfare and strengthen its infrastructure. Iceland has taken an active part in international cooperation against tax collections, and following the revelations of Panama documents it is important that cooperation be even more targeted than before. We will continue to work closely with other nations, and we will continue to stress the development of information exchange agreements with a tax - related state. In recent years, 44 such agreements have been made, the latest United Arab Emirates in April. This is a pivotal work that has been done in recent years. Before these contracts, the Icelandic government had obtained resources to verify the information about possession or income of companies owned by Icelanders in low taxes. In the near future, additional reactions and initiatives can be expected on a global scale. Iceland is advised to be involved and actively participate in any action that will be undertaken. The OECD has taken the initiative of G20 countries to set up a report on 15 measures in which Member States are considering them. The actions concerning the EEA Convention include changes in annual accounts, balance accounts, and so on. These are changes that even hide. in addition to increasing European market information exchange between countries. These changes, which I talked about at the council last week, requested the Alduist warrant to adopt the EEA Convention, include the requirement that large international companies be much more aware of their activities in individual countries involved in the internal market. As these changes progress, they will include thousands of international companies on the inside market of Europe, and they are obliged to publish their profits, their taxpayers, their employees'numbers, and their resources, to affect the countries in which they operate. This may involve large international companies with national activities. It is expected that measures in terms of the use of financial resources will be adopted in the EEA agreement, as with previous regulations on the same topic. They are endeavoring to ensure an international standard in the recommendations of the money industry. In the wake of the terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels and the release of the Panama Documents, the European Commission clearly stresses that this directive will be introduced into national law on the whole EEA area by the end of the year. Then there is an estimate for tax subsidies that are expected to affect the entire inner market. There are three available suggestions. First, it is suggested that taxation be efficient so that companies pay taxes where money is made. Second, transparency is emphasized so that Member States have the necessary information to ensure fair taxation. Third, it is suggested that twofold taxation be prevented, so business does not work in internal markets. Much emphasis is put on information exchange, an important tool for combating tax payoffs and tax evasion. In particular, the suggestions are designed to prevent international corporations from using tax laws in order to avoid or minimize taxpaying. The suggestions are largely based on a discussion that will have been considered in the field of OECD. A respectable president. I agree with those here who have spoken of the importance of Iceland's achieving an even greater policy and taking the lead in combating taxes and the use of a foreign partner. As noted, the government decided to propose a financial and economic minister to order a special task force to make proposals for a change in law, regulations and procedures that make up the government's strategy for tax collections and the use of tax industry in general. Our top experts in this field will put together, and I'll put high hopes in his work. Last week, at the General Parliament, proposals for the resolution of international economic pressure on under taxes were taken, where the government is encouraged to promote and implement such measures. For such action to have the desired effect, many states or groups of nations need to agree with them. During the last council, the General agreed to clear up any government authority to take such measures, but they have been soon bound by international institutions. Global reactions will naturally require some action. If they get attacked, Iceland will have a full share.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u33	A respectable president. Some members of the local Parliament have declared that they are pleased with the tone presented in the talk of the highest. Secretary of finance. I'm not. All I have to say is honestly and respectfully that I'm not happy with my tone. I felt that the talk was the highest. Minister that we are participants in international cooperation to handle tax frauds in foreign societies. That's a lot of news. It would be a lot of news if we weren't, if we weren't participants in such a partnership. I suppose, and I've always assumed that we were and that we should do our part. Yes, the mission has finally been to purchase data indicating significant tax fraud in debino societies, that it is being processed now, but, actually, Panama documents are more relevant and shed light on a much wider potential source. We're involved in an antiquities operation. Of course. We are. That's good. Yes, there is a reason for this now that all of this has been accomplished, perhaps to estimate the loss of income and the amount of tax collections in societies. I think maybe it's the least you could do. But likely these numbers mentioned as tax fraud are exaggerated. That was the tone. All right. Perhaps many are pleased with that. This is certainly a matter, and all of it, and it abounds in material content, but what do I miss in this regard? I feel like an Icelander because of all this coverage of the Panama Documents lately, like I've been a fool. What have we shared in the past few decades? For example, the way we want to sell access to limited goods. The fishing warrants, the greeting system, all of it. Is it not obvious that many of those who have access to the price at high prices do I think it is safe to say that I have taken this coin and put it to Tortola or something else? Why are we not crazy about this? Why are those who protect the saying system and all of that not crazy about it, too? Those who had been decapitated after going through society in an empty adventure before crash and borrowed from banks are now showing that the money they borrowed and then landed in Icelandic society, it's on Tortoli. Why isn't everybody crazy about that? Why is it the highest? It's not a financial minister that's crazy about that? Why doesn't he feel like me and others, that he has been a fool in these things? Why is this not a serious matter? Why are the classes that speak of us keeping the crown in Iceland, which would not go crazy that the ruler of the government, the former one who was driven away, had their money in foreign coins, in a demilitarized society? I've been listening to all this discussion whether any member of the management board in this discussion will simply condemn it, the hypocrisy and the dishonesty of it. Political. No one does. Let's talk about the big business in the country. Today, according to an analysis, it was found to have about 34% lower energy prices than the global market price. She enjoys things like this. There's a lot of people here who've been offering big-time investment agreements with all kinds of authority not to pay certain fees. It has long been for the big business to take advantage of a low tax area to move profits out of the country based on obvious accounting effects. Why is it the highest? Is that not the case with a secretary of finance as crazy as many of OECD leaders? Why, for example, do investment agreements allow them to go to the books of these enterprises? They're there. Never been new. So, no, the highest. Mr. President, I'm not happy with the tone. I'm not happy that people don't realize how amazing political news it is that Iceland has been discovered, exposed as the point of the land in possession of national accounts and cannot even put it in touch with all the great controversies that have taken place in Icelandic society during the past decade about that, for example. how to stop selling far below the market value of access to our natural resources. [[Up front.]] Haven't they just been moved to Tortula?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u34	A respectable president. This is where we discuss government action because of our foreign partner. In the talk of the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance was getting into a tax fraud, that we needed to get this tax back. But there was not much discussion about what we have to do, why, the basis for the recovery of the tax back home and so forth. I don't think it's necessary to remind people of it, but there's been a crash. That collapse occurred in 2008. This is made clear in the report of the Allied Committee of Study Committees, which I have already read in the back and that an Icelandic banking system was hollowed inside. Now we see how it was done. Now we're going to see how every capital owner was sent to Panama to do some business in Seychelles, such as. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A financial minister now tried to do, or he kept his family's money in Tortola as high as possible. former Minister and current drive. paritaprevir Sgt. Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who is on leave, did. The government's actions on demilitarized matters need to be associated with the collapse and subsequent strategy. The study report and the results presented in it need to be taken seriously. I don't think it's done much. The report repeatedly discusses that this has been a bad practice. This is repeatedly demonstrated by arbitrary decisions. There are many references to how politicians fail to take responsibility. It is repeatedly noted that the duties of individual organizations or officials were not clear enough. This is something that we need to work on in context so that we can take action regarding debinos, since all of this is at hand. I'd also like to talk about what will be presented in the General's study report on how the European Commission works. The government's authority and the last one has gone higher. There hasn't been much consultation with the smaller parts. There's been largely a press conference. Will government action result from such an amendment? Or do we have anything to say about it? In the report, Valgerður Sverrisdóttir for the Generals Research Committee on October 15, 2009, has permission of the president's permission: The legal rights of the Council were naturally very domineering at the time. This is something that we need to adapt to so that we can talk about how we will respond to taxes. These societies and what has been planted have been closely linked to what has led to the collapse of 2008. I don't think that the generation in this room mostly doesn't understand the consequences. We've been discussing academic matters at the council in unsupervised requests that are being cut down to students of my generation because the Golden Age, born in 1960 and using an overboss about an Icelandic banking system, will only be able to do what pleases her. Who's going to take it? This takes on the elderly, the bites of young people, the bites of anyone other than those who escaped their taxes, and their income escapes to an ethnic society because it is so safe. There are many things to do. In itself, it is very good and positive that we participate in international cooperation to take action against societies. But the reaction and presentation in Icelandic politics that has taken place in the past month, and the weeks have been a disgrace. We're seeing that every other man and their mother had societies to store their wealth or to try to get away from taxes. [[Foreground: their father.]] But what's really important to me is that you're political. That the political groups, these traditional elements, the Independence Party, and the forward party, and others like them, will arise and establish a new course. It has been a policy of Independence Party and is, among other things, tore here in chapter 5 of the Allied Commission report that surveillance agencies are burdensome. Twenty years, this was the case. Can we get it by the highest. Secretary of finance that surveillance agencies are needed for a healthy financial system? Can we get it from the highest. Secretary of finance? Can we risk this new, free - thinking idea that an enterprise can have moral teaching to do what is right? It's just been shown they can't. Corporates will go where the taxes are low. Their goals are healed. Their goal is not to protect human rights. We need to get this straight because we can't trust, and I can't trust a financial minister who feels like that. Monitoring institutions are burdensome. I welcome international cooperation, but I also ask for political responsibility, and I pray for clear answers. The answers we've been given and an army, you don't know anything, you don't understand them or you don't understand them. I ask for clear answers as to whether the Independence Party course has finally changed. Has the financial community finally become an essential part of surveillance agencies?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u35	V.E.G. President. I heard why. paritaprevir According to Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, the debate had developed since the discovery of the Panama Documents. I think you're right in part. She's only matured in the community, but I don't think she's matured much at the government stand at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u36	... You're doing great.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u37	The discussion here is always misled. The whole thing is always to be horny, obligatory, all for political purposes. I don't make a special comment about it in myself, but this is, of course, the reality. Whether such is tax fraud, tax collection, or whether there is a natural trade despite low taxes, the type and nature of these taxes, etc. At the council, there is no interest in the government's position of distinction. No, everyone will be judged as anywhere near some low tax area. It's not a topic of speech, it's really misleading, and everyone is being misled. I sense that in the community, the public has come to realize that there is a big difference. Tax fraud is a lot of trouble. It is truly annoying that some who use all the drinking that is available do not pay taxes like others. It's disrupting competition. This is a vegetation industry for organized crime, terrorism, etc. It is important to find ways to eliminate or correct the problem as much as possible. What is the key to this? It's an information present. It is the cooperation of the nations so that information can be obtained. Low taxes or countries with lower taxes are not necessarily the disease. We live in a global society, they are investing and doing business around the world. What's a low tax area? Where's a secret? So, considering today, there is less secrecy and more information available in various islands around Tortula than in Hong Kong, Delaware, U.S.A., Luxembourg, and Switzerland. It takes international cooperation to solve the problem. To some extent, we may need to examine our own laws of law. Is it possible to do better there? Of course, there are some ideas that are worth considering, but we also need to be careful not to make some thoughtless changes that may be more harmful than the other. I reiterate that it's intolerable, and I believe that the Generals and politicians now and in the future have a great look at these matters, will review them with our major cooperation countries in order to prevent the ills that tax fraud and tax collections are.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u38	Madam President. Tax sea is used primarily to cover property and avoid tax pay. Those using a tax host do so to avoid paying taxes to the full of their income and possessions. The signs of taxes are taxation or taxation, secrecy, and transparency. The main defense of taxpayers is that they give their income and possessions listed in taxes to taxes in their country of origin. There is no way to test the claim, there is no information in the tax panels about it, and it is the very secret that seems to be worth the effort for those searching for shelter. Every government in Western lands claims to be opposed to the activity of taxes and to want to oppose them, including the U.S. ... OECD. Iceland has signed a contract like this and the highest. Ministers have confirmed in this discussion that Iceland will participate in international cooperation on the matter. Our situation, however, is that both the former prime minister and the highest. The national secretary of finance has taken advantage of a tax bill and has hidden it from the council and from the nation. The involvement of Icelandic politicians in the use of taxes, which has already been revealed by Panama, reveals that Icelandic politicians are greedy and corrupt, and they want others to share their share in the government business. How sad! Astrologers worldwide are stepping forward and fighting for bans on tax cards and laws if the ban is not respected. It is called for by an equal's values of righteousness and solidarity as well as by people who are able to fight against such corruption. Political conflicts will result in rooting out taxes because the interests of the rich are great, and they will stand together and say that there is nothing wrong with banning the shelter. In fact, that argument has been heard in this hall from the highest. A secretary of finance who has taken advantage of a tax claim. A report would have been inevitable in all other parts of Western Europe - but not in Iceland, and this is a concern because it suggests the moral and political standards of this country. Madam President. The Panama documents suggest that Iceland is an unusually high-level user of foreign taxes. It has been observed that the owners of a foreign country are members who have been given large sums of money written in banks following their fall in the fall of 2008. There are also cases where banks' swelling camps have been saved. Large sums of money have moved to the country by means of the Sullaby Bank and owners have received significant compensation. This trade is a confidential business that can be lifted only by an official investigation. A comparison of these groups will likely give a picture of the scope of the problem and its nature. All who have made use of societies are skeptical because of the purpose and purpose of their partners. The suspicion exists in this room, but it is also around the world. The media shows that in some cases it is a form of property that cannot be explained in honest business. The country's holdings have been established in an effort to cover them. In fact, loans were moved to an amendment without any trade, even trying to cover the path with complicated transfers. All of this, however, is traceable and can be revealed by public investigation. Let us not overlook the fact that the right of property is not made by capital transgression. In other cases, tax marches and even tax fraud may be involved. Tax practices will be practiced in many places and will include seeking to save assets and income at the lowest taxation level. It will not be illegal, but it still undermines communities, such as tax fraud. In other cases, income is being avoided by taxes with unfounded financial bills. These issues are important and appear to be large, and they must be enlightened. Icelandic people cannot be happy because people in a privileged position become a high - ranking nation on the basis of capital offenses. There will never be peace about it in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u39	President. I want to thank you for this discussion. The occasion is great and the project is huge. The review is a government action due to an ethnic group. What we see here in the debate of history. The name of the Secretary of Economics is Icelandic cat laundry. It really does not mean much to do anything but try to create peace in a case that is completely intolerable. The thing is so big in Iceland that the world's eyes are on us. Why is that? That's because we're a world worth living in a number of foreign companions. We are a world record of many Ministers of the Government who use their taxes. Among them is the highest. Economic and financial ministers here are talking about government action. I'm sure everyone can see that it's a charade and that's it. It's so in Iceland that all of Iceland's top advisers are very caught up in this. Recently, the president of the Republic is on the front pages of foreign magazines and international Web sites. For what? For becoming a biography of these matters. For saying one thing today and another tomorrow. For the fact that soup abounds over the need for reform in the case of the highest degree. The last prime minister, Sigmur Davíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla, but then be himself on the front page a few days later. Incompatibilities in the use of language are natural with such a remarkable lack of pleasure. President. Iceland's credibility is at stake. Not only for ourselves but also for the world. As it stands right now, Iceland is laughing all over the world. There is a turning point in the Icelandic political debate, a turning point today. It's a test now. What will the General of Iceland do? How will the Icelandic political take on the position that has come up? By creating, by real, not with better tone, but with real action and by stepping aside and getting out of the political scene when such obvious demands are presented at the council chamber, ministers who have taken advantage of their own tax ornaments should be replaced. It is a spontaneous and natural requirement in a democracy, and I assure you that this situation could not exist in the countries around us that we would like to, of course, compare ourselves with. To lead here, which has self-developed communities and through the tax cover, and including the family of the President of Iceland, undermines the credibility of the country. But having one's own personal money in a local tax industry means that the person is actively and fully willing to share in the underminement of his own community and welfare. If it's not a twin, if it's not unfaithful, if it's not hypocritical at best, a respectable president, then I don't know what it is. It is a turning point in Icelandic politics. It's a test. And I'm afraid that if the verbal report of the government's operations by nationals is a test result, we'll have fallen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u40	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Financial and economic minister here for reporting a government action programme for foreign society. It is certainly good that the government informs the council of the progress of this vital work. It is also positive in the case of the highest degree. Foreign Ministers that governments have fully participated in campaigns with other nations against taxes, such as at the scene of the Northern States, OECD, and the EU. Sadly, the same can be said about all Western lands. It is enough to include Switzerland, Luxembourg, Malta, the United States, Hong Kong, and so on. All too many reputable countries agree that foreign organizations can establish these companies that pay very little taxes and make little demands that their owners be known. The fact that partners' owners are known is just something that we ourselves need to fix. Therefore, I welcome the order of a staff that will pass the results by June, but in that group, I will represent the head of state tax, the tax investigator, the customs manager, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry's Presidency. I'll agree with the highest. Financial and economic secretary that it might be fine and useful if the group was to attend a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee for the duration of his work. As mentioned earlier, the Economic and Business Committee held an open meeting to study the viewpoints and tips of the government and the Ministry. This morning at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, the Committee discussed the matter with the committee. I hope that the committee will be able to combine with them on the contents of such a report and yield next week. The idea is that the report provides an overview of the tips the Committee received from the tax authorities on legal changes that could hinder the future use of a tax host. Some of these indications are simple and accessible, while others require further preparation as expected. V.E.G. The financial and economic minister announced in his speech that there is a legal bill that could be triggered as soon as such a bill would be expected in the days ahead. I think it's some news, and I'm very happy about it. This shows that the government is seriously involved in dealing with the problem and self - determination. I expect all members of Congress and particularly members of the Economic and Business Committees to welcome all legal adjustments that will benefit from tax costs. In fact, the debate here today is a monotonous among members of Congress and a rich person who is willing to work against the problems of taxes. I believe that a comparable awakening is among members of Congress in other countries. Therefore, I hope that international cooperation is now receiving more power than has ever been. The problem with taxes is not only the tax charges that undermine the welfare community, which is certainly a great and serious problem, but also the secret that is new for many illegal purposes and attracts cheery parties to countries. Iceland must be at the head of international cooperation with tax sources. It will be effective when and if solidarity is reached. But it is also important and perhaps even more important that we take the initiative to adjust our own laws in order to deal with the problem. That's a lot of opportunities. By setting a good example, we can improve our country's image and strengthen the international community's trust in our economy. Unfortunately, Iceland has been in a very negative way connected with the worldwide tax crisis over the past few weeks. [[Take it up for: And days.]] And days. That is why we need Icelanders to take the initiative so that we can take the initiative. It can be done. Reports at the top. A minister today and the discussion here, which has been most informative and deliberating, is hoping that Iceland can truly set a good example in these areas. I'm a senator, and that I think everyone else has a problem. Congress officials are ready to contribute to that end.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u41	Madam President. It seems to me that the government of Iceland is going to do so in the wake of the Panama Documents, which was completely normal for it to do with the Panama papers. Panama's documents and the debates over dematerialities are completely played in politics, attempting to translate a term that has been called, by President's permission, the 'game changer'. The information shows us the double reality of people who, on the other hand, are fully involved in the community in which they live, and people who consider it morally defending to abstain from the percentage of income and possessions that they want others to contribute to the community. It must change the way we talk about health, education, and other community structure because it's about society's main involvement. We are a group of different individuals who gather schools, hospitals, institutions to ensure that a decent service is available for all, regardless of income or social status. It must have an impact on the discussion and the political bitch that we wondered if we want to be in the lead of our society of people who do not share in the affairs of these institutions and even need them. This discussion shows that there are people in the top public areas of the community who feel that they can store their money in taxes. It is at the same time in the way of or when it comes to meeting the necessary reforms and structure of a community that is not their own. There is something else that will be revealed in this discussion and will become so obvious and, of course, not have to be said out loud. Nevertheless, in view of what has been said: It is a key factor for us who are involved in politics and who offer us public trust for the common people always to tell the truth, never to lie. People must be able to trust it when it's the highest. The secretary of finance is asked about connections with societies, and he says no, that he is telling the truth. It's the perfect key. Another factor to consider is the subject of taxes. Now, the right men and especially the independent party have striven for decades and are still doing so, claiming that taxes are bad. Taxation is something that, under all circumstances, should try to keep as low as possible. This includes having to pay taxes in some way. But now that issue has changed in a way that allows independence to compete, like everyone else, to say that no one is to be excluded from them. Everybody should pay taxes. No one should use a tax bill and avoid sharing in the community. Of course, the spirit displayed in the information we have now received and the number of people who have participated in the formation of societies and in holding their money elsewhere, in taxes, in the smell of this same attitude, that it is somehow very negative to pay taxes, is in some way very reasonable to try hard to get their own way so that you will not pay them back. This discussion shows that the taxes, of course, are nothing other than hospitals, schools, the institutions we have established so that everyone can always have access to the basic human rights contained in these institutions. I wondered what information will be presented. It's the highest. A financial minister has made his way clear in this regard? Are there still members of Parliament who will be revealed in these documents? What's to be connected with leftovers in some way that may have been strengthened by societies of the country? Of course, in view of what has been revealed, there are questions that you must ask. In this discussion of what has been revealed in connection with the Panama Documents, people who have become aware that connected with these African societies are striving to say: "Well, that's all normal and legal and paid taxes for all that was there, and in fact, we didn't make anything of it. It was a real challenge for all of us to have been involved. But what assurance do we have?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u42	None.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u43	What do we have to study their words to see that it is? And what is the value of the words when they are examined in the context of what has happened in these last days when people have found themselves in a hurry to tell outright lies, not remembering where and whether they have associated with such associates or not? What are they worth? The confidence that vanished in these politicians during this information, of course, affects all the politicians, all the institutions of society. That trust will be renewed only in elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u44	A respectable president. The Panama Documents called people a reminder of certain cultural differences, an event in everyday usage called collapse. Before a collapse, I remember, and I think many people remember that a certain calculator culture was going on in financial, corporate and activities in general. This cowlist culture was such that it seemed very cool to turn on the system, to be somehow smarter than the system they lived in. I think that this matter especially reminds people of this culture and of the madness that occurred before a crash, when people always act as if everything is normal, which clearly stumbles the public. Now, it is certain that many do not understand the nature of having property here or how the tax system works here or there or how international business works above its head, but the more reason is there for stressing the need for politicians to get credibility. They need to have credibility at least two ways, to the public in the country and to the international community, especially to foreign economic systems, as it were. What is still lacking is what a person feels is a natural function. You may call it anything normal as long as they can call it legal, but the requirement is deeper than that. It takes more than legal things. No matter how normal this cooling culture may seem to some people, it's not good enough. There is a call for credibility to become something that is not a human dispute. Perhaps it would be better to argue with one another than with the highest degree. The secretary of finance has a direct interest in the results of certain discussions. For example, when this was the case, there was talk about buying tax money, it was the highest. I'm sure it's a financial minister with opinions, but how should you know? Then it turns out that they meant what they said somehow completely different from everyone else. How should you believe them next? If someone has ideas about keeping possessions in the tax industry, how can you believe them under these circumstances when humans have opposed them? The tone in this discussion is often used in a way that fits in with the arts. It is suitable for those who feel that everything is normal that is legal, and who fail to accept what is acceptable morally, not legally, but morally. Rather, it is the credibleness that we need in or more political affairs because at the same time suspicion is necessary. It's absolutely necessary. If people were not suspicious now, they would not be paying attention. Then some come anyway. Councilmen complain about the way the government's opposition speaks. How should the government's situation be expressed? What do you remember? If they were in the position of government opposition, would the members of the greater body say in the Hall of Congress? Should we stand here and say, "Well, it's all fine, there's nothing to do here, the public's getting it wrong." Of course, it can always be said that the other and that politician is always speaking for political purposes, and in a way that is correct in all political talk. Yet, today's suspicion is essential. That's the sad part of it. It's absolutely necessary. It would be irresponsible not to feel suspicious after what has been revealed. That's a problem. This problem will be solved only by efforts to shoulder political responsibility, not just legal responsibility, but political responsibility and moral responsibility. That's a lot of reports of agents from more than one what they're saying. The reason why we keep property in taxes, or abroad, or what we should call these places is twofold. So far, I haven't heard any other reasons. It is to hide property and, on the other hand, to escape the tax system. If property is stored in those areas, and it becomes evident and they want to mean that it's normal for them to have been hiding property, they have to explain why. They need to explain in a way that the high Council and the Generals can explain to all the people how it is normal and the common people have the opportunity and reason to believe politicians for change. The reason for holding possessions in these areas is, of course, that they have a measure of interest in it. What interests? Well, some kind of interest that the common citizen cannot afford. If the others can afford to use these areas, should not all do so? And if not, why not? Because he's just a public citizen. It's not part of this cowlist culture that somehow gets to do things that are cool and turn the system into light or vague ways. When such matters arise, we need to show that we are serious. That can cost you. This may involve power. That can cost positions. Showing serious hair in these matters may cost a lot of money on your suit. But now we have an ex-fiancée. Prime Minister, this is now the highest. Secretary of finance and most important of the republic itself, who are involved in the international discussion that again shames Iceland, unfortunately. If we are going to get out of that road, we need to show that we are serious by proving that we respect Iceland's credibility more than our position as politicians.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for the initiative to appoint a group on this urgent matter, a tax fraud group, and particularly for a foreign partner. I agree with that word. Senators who have discussed this matter, tax fraud in foreign lands, as a special lesion, and who will not say anything more about it. I think there's a parapolitic reconciliation about the lesion in those materials. Tax fraud has often been examined, and it has been the case. The members of this hall know that tax fraud reports have been introduced here. This was now done at a regular time here in the past. The last report I believe has been submitted on this subject since 2004, a special report on tax fraud. It's a pleasure to see that. A financial minister assumes that at least one member of the 2004 service group will be included in the currently appointed group. It gives a fine bond that is often necessary in this regard. When I examined the 2004 report, I was distracted by an effort to assess the extent of tax fraud. There has been a little discussed today and some numbers in this regard have been mentioned. In 2004, the estimate was that the loss of income due to tax fraud, as a percentage of the taxpayers of all public agencies, would range from 5◯8%. That, of course, is enormous. I noticed that the tax frauds of the so - called black operation in this country were thus divided. After that, tax fraud due to accounting broke out, and in a similar area, foreign - based tax evasion was a tax fraud, in the range of 1562%. It would be interesting to see in the current work some analysis on that point, for I think it is very important to have a good view of it between time and fashion skills, if we can say so. At the time the last tax fraud report was submitted, if I recall correctly, somewhat in fashion to form debinos or societies in so - called tax-paradise, as it was then known. The tax fraud report I've been referring to since 2004 particularly dealt with the possibility of paying taxes and tax returns. It was now the spirit in 2004. And just at the time of the report, for example, a society with which men today have wanted to explain themselves as normal, a Bermuda-based organization written by the tax authorities, the same as the 2004 tax fraud report. I can't remember better than that. paritaprevir At that time, Hjörvar was in the government of the Continent of Land. Ex-fiancé. A secretary of the last government recently described the right to establish societies in these so - called foreign countries. What a fine example for us to be examined here! I think it would be nice to have the work of old tax fraud groups on the job just so that it can be identified, for example, what has changed since 2004 to today in these materials. A respectable president. So, finally, I want to direct it to the highest level. Secretary of finance not to overcompute the business of this current working group to get the most out of his work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u46	Madam President. This is the developer of a national financial and economic report (which had a company in the tax industry) on the government's actions due to a national society (U.S.). A government tax manager considers it to be some 80 billion tax returns, frauds by society every year, and inspires for property in so - called tax documents or societies. It's about 12% of the current year's income. This would result in a loss of medical funding, social security, university, high school, and the police. We should even have some money left when the money was made that would have to be in there. Here are huge social interests at stake, and this is why the anger in society is explained that over us has been called a failure to be world famous for the high share of property in taxes. We will now review the report on how we will counteract this threat with our community. Who have intended to lead that work? V.E.G. Bjarni son of Benediktsson, who had a company in the tax industry and the highest. Prime Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, who has expressed his approval of such property, including the highest possible property. former prime minister and executive director of the advance party. Both, though, have abandoned their roles. That was the best. Sadly, the prime minister respected their decision. These are the men who are going to lead the work against societies of Iceland. Everyone sees that it doesn't work out because after his head, his penis dances. If we are going to work as hard as possible against tax returns, tax frauds in this country, abroad, and in foreign societies, we need to have trustworthy individuals in charge of that work. That's why I want to ask the highest. The secretary of finance to resign his office because he does not have confidence in the common people in this country who are hurt by stealing money from our common funds. I want to pray to the highest. Prime Minister to take his role seriously and make a date for elections. We need elections, and we need a new government in this country that has the credibility to show that this is a fight against tax fraud and money fraud, the financial corruption that was exposed to the nation by a famous Castlight show at the beginning of April, a factor that we have not yet taken from the needle. We have a lot of work to do, but it will not be led by the current government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u47	Madam President. V.E.G. The minister of finance began his case by saying that the Icelandic government was and had always been at the tip of international cooperation in fighting taxes. Pretty close to my highest. Secretary of the budget is short again. What did the Icelandic government do in this regard? What was the heroic performance? Didn't they just turn Iceland into the opposite direction? Did they put laws on international investment companies into tax collections here at home? Didn't the tax fraud reports they're looking at get into a drawer and nothing done with them? You see, it was suggested at the moment in 2002How2004 to record CC rules, but it wasn't done. There was a new government in 2009 that finally began to address these matters by setting CC rules, by tightening the private partner law, by doubleing capital taxes, and by entering a comprehensive partnership on the development of information agreements. Much of the 44 contracts that a minister boasts were made in the time of that government. Has the speech improved in the last few days and weeks? Yes, I may have thought so - but still. Here we go. Councilmen Sigríður Andersen and Braunsur Níelsson's son, and I don't see that anything has changed. If that is proven to be a betrayal of taxes or a broken law, this is not good enough, but what are some other gossiping about it? If, for example, that energy companies such as nationalisation have founded a community abroad to buy insurance, publish all the years in their accounts, and have been in the management of that group at some point, then there has been no improvement in any other crime we watch here, as it is attempted to include the discussion, the discussion has not improved. Madam President. I have to say just as it is, I get so mad with anger inside me sometimes these days as I watch the foreign media coverage of Iceland that I can barely handle myself. What should Iceland pay to go over and over again in this terrible stage light? Can't you see what it's like when the world looks at us? Let us be aware that we have a worldwide record of a mental sport of demation, but in the arts and related matters, the prime minister, who has actually gone, the president of the Republic, the national chief of nations, and his family, financial ministers and local ministers, representatives of the capital, which others have, in fact, are on leave. There's nothing missing, except that the President of the Supreme Court, the Generals and the Bishop of Iceland are also on the list, this would be perfect. This isn't working. We have to take seriously the way this plays for us. However, we did not fall from a high saddle, a land with its reputation destroyed at the end of 2008, and we have taken a slow, biting amount of time and energy just trying to build it up. Still, good things have happened. In the spring of 2010, the Research Committee report on the fall of banks was good for Iceland. She drew attention. For what? Because she showed that Iceland wasn't gonna look away. In the same way, we have to send the world around us a clear message that we are not going to look away. A fully validated official study conducted by the General Assembly with a research committee, which has the extensive legal authority, should be one of the major factors involved. In addition, the world would notice if that happened to the highest level. Secretary of finance is not only the release but also the president of the Republic moved back to reelection. In this way, humans could benefit from their land under such circumstances. I encourage men not to sit mucus next to their chairs when it may be known to every human child that they are harming their country by doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u48	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank you for this discussion, and at the same time, I thank you very much. The secretary of the budget for his report and to report any planned government action. Then I'd like to say the most. Minister of state, who identified our international struggles against taxes and our international authorities that we take the lead in these areas and that we have a stronger policy here. At the same time, over the past few weeks, there has been a very helpful and upbuilding discussion. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The Katrín Jacobs Jakobsdóttir, who has evolved for the better, cannot be said to have been strong and to some extent reflected in the community's reaction to Panama's data leak. Not only have we had to review terms and definitions of things involved in the work that is heard by an ethnic partner and a tax carer, and we've been able to control that function and what it involves. In fact, tax cover, as the name makes quite clear, is based on the fact that the community's activities, covert over business and property, and that's a secret problem, a respectable president, is very clear in this discussion. It allows such communities to work unconventionly within the jurisdiction of such services and to pay less or no taxes and, at the same time, allows them to escape the obligation to pay for the community. Of course, in this way it undermines the welfare of society. Nor is there any compromise, even though there was a long history of such activity, that there is a country awakening in at least, possibly to some extent early foreign level, that there is no tolerance of taxes or the dead in any way. The fact that there are some who see the advantage of avoiding paying taxes to society to support the welfare and infrastructure and the existence of a foreign partner promotes black activity and all kinds of illegal activities. Indeed, African society is an ideal site for illegal activity, such as drug trading, money theft, and terrorism, a wide range of noise - free activities that may be often far away from us. At the same time, the activities of such an African society weaken the general structure of basic services and well - being, increasing inexorably and preventing working in an equal way and leading to fortressism, mismanagement of all healthy competitions, and harming communities and companies who engage in open and transparent businesses. What is bad and may now be exposed is how twisted attitudes and values have been about this. I think I have an open meeting with the manager's words. The Economic and Business Committee on these issues, this operation, is a big story. So I here refer to the morning newspaper's web on the day of this meeting, by permission of a president: During the past decade, a tax adviser has tried to call attention to the problems associated with taxes, but he often experiences himself as did the cryer in the wilderness in that regard. I must say, a respectable president, that these words of the tax manager tell us quite a story about the attitude and perhaps that the community has, to some extent, ignored the seriousness of this matter. I think it's a very good thing here is to be a awakening and a change of viewpoint. We have seen information and reports of big business and international companies who have taken advantage of tax trade and income transport in such shelters from countries in order to reduce tax pay and often share poorer countries of the world, where less paid labor is being used. I'm just saying, how could it be that we've been going through such a thing for so long? Therefore, I welcome all the discussions that have taken place and the reactions that have occurred in the international community as well as here, not just at the General but in the community, but in the media coverage, not to be forgotten in this vast drop of data. At the same time, it is very important to speak words and to talk, not just to taxes and deportations, but to tax collections in general, to follow measures, to change, to make real changes, to change the rules and the laws and to monitors that we need to promote, to promote international relations in which such activity and measures are made to eliminate the tax collection and activity of taxes. However, it has been shown that it is not so far that nothing has been done. The authorities have taken action against this operation and the highest. A minister has repeated and considered today the actions that have taken place during recent losses. Most of them turn to information exchanges at international level. I think we need to examine further what we can do in our home. That is why I hailed a group of government action and activity in that area. There are two main factors in this context, evaluating the impact and extent of this operation, that we can discern how it affects our society and to what extent it undermines the welfare system, as well as so that we can measure the results of the measures we are taking. In view of all the speech and the attitude reflected here, I stress that working against this operation and the tax industry in general, we are achieving effective results. Therefore, I welcome every action published in a report at the highest level. Secretary of finance and economics and that word at the highest rate. Secretary of state to make even more consistent policy in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u49	A respectable president. We're having a very serious conversation here, and not for the first time. It is important that we follow up on them, that the discussion will be taken not only out of the media but also seriously. On the other hand, I feel that when people discuss the matter, they lose a little focus and rather use it for political purposes instead of trying to achieve real success and talk about it on such grounds. Here are some very large words made to fall. I feel right, and I think it would be wise for a person to consider the matter in the context of what it has been in. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that it started here. They say we have a worldwide record in the use of a foreign partner. I don't know if you're right. I just have no idea. As far as I know, very little information has been made. It's only about this one office. But it's been going on for a long time, longer than here. This began in the year 2000, as far as I know when the State Bank, the Lands Bank, began to introduce this service. Then it was a state bank, then it was political agents in the government, I don't know that there was a political dispute, either within the government or in the politics. The one conducting this operation, and the book Andersen documents that everyone should study, became director of the Food Board during the last term. There were full - page advertisements that covered these matters. I don't know why people want to belittle it because if we find that demilitarized societies are something we really don't want, then naturally, we have to define what debinos are, then we have to set a good example. In 2003, however, the National Idolatry Society started the Oceanic Power Industry Ltd. The Society was registered in Bermuda and has obtained authorization for insurance operations on a global market. The purpose of the Society - this is in the brochure Land activation - is primarily to handle and oversee their own guarantees of land activation. The Society does both insurance at the current national power centres and the implementation insurance for the activities being carried out at any given time. English Power Information then buys reimbursement from approved responsors using the above structure. The target is that the total cost of land reimbursement insurance be lower than that of others. This is stated in the annual report Land activation in 2003. You might think, " Hey, it's been so long ago. ' Then I find it interesting to know, because they speak very largely now, if it's been suspended during the last term. It would be good to know this because the people here speak of doubleheartedness and hypocrisy. Isn't it double-minded and hypocritical if the state-of-the-conjugation company has insurance, through a Bermuda society, that men speak here as they speak today? Is that not double - skind and hypocritical? A few months ago - this was under the lead of the United States, the left green, the bright future, and Pirata - was determined in the administration of Energy Agency to set up an insurance company. It was decided there. Is that not double - skind and hypocritical? I'm asking, Mr. Honorable President. It explains that I have access to the Department of Energy that this is done to reduce the cost because of paying much lower taxes in Guernsey. This is an official enterprise controlled by the groups here in the management position, which speaks in a way that I do not need to repeat here, everyone has listened to this speech. I'm asking you, isn't it twins and hypocrisy? I think anyone looking at this matter is asking that question. Like all Icelanders, I want the discussion to become the best in Iceland. She hasn't been that for a good reason lately. I thought it would be wise for the United States to get here a respected foreign professor from London School of Economics, John Kay, to discuss these matters. What did he say? He said that it is important to be careful and separate from the companies established in these countries for honest purposes and for the purpose of betraying taxes or talking money. That's not what members of the board said. It's not an Icelander. This is the professor the Conspiracy brought to the country to discuss these matters. The next question is: Do we agree with this claim or not? That's a basic question. I asked you a few questions. U.S. anti-continents on this matter. They agreed that this was right. They agreed with John Kay. If they agree with him, why do they always suggest something else, e.g. to the highest. Secretary of finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u50	Ask OECD.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u51	Why are people doing so? Here's what we call a what. Svandís Svavarsdóttir: Ask OECD. What's OECD's number? Is it a social security number or something?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u52	Go to the well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u53	It's just silly, of course. You don't take the matter seriously with such foolish fads. It is not credible, perhaps hypocritical, when men on the other side of Hope Street establish their societies, when men were here in the government last and in charge of land resurgence, with governor of the Conspiracy, and have not fought against this foreign society that is still going on. [[Was it approved, Guðlaur?]] If that is how the existing government opposition broke up with the African society during the last term, that is news. [[Up front.]] Hv. paritaprevir The Svavarsdóttir is totally freaking out about this speech. Why would that be? Here I am discussing the origin of a national society, and as far as I know it, it's still got a foreign community in Bermuda on its insurance policy. I don't know that they put it down in their last term. I think it may be safe to say that the former senator during the last term who fought against it was the daughter of Lilja Mósesdóttir, who is no longer a member of the council. It is interesting to recall how Lilja Mósesdóttir'daughter was received by members of the then administrative body and its efforts to hide things, such as possession. It would also be interesting to review how questions about who owns the swollen ones and therefore the Icelandic banks were addressed. You can read about it in the book Revolution, and then what? since Lilja, the daughter of Mósesdóttir, does well. For those interested in the matter, we would do well to review it and then evaluate whether there is anything here about double - skind, hypocritical. Perhaps there is a matter of duplicity and hypocrisy in the present government opposition that controlled matters during the last term. I've also asked, and I haven't had much answers, those people who either want to accept it or say they want to apply for involvement in the European Union. No one is applying for involvement in the European Union unless you want to walk in the European Union, at least not in the countries we want to compare with. True, I don't know any country except Iceland where they apply to European relationships to find out what's available. It's an experience to try to explain to foreign authorities that this is the case in Iceland, but let it lie in part. I have asked them if they have reconsidered their view of the European Union, since there is something we must discuss. The trades being shown in the Panama Documents are more and less involved in the European Union's nuclear states, Luxembourg. In fact, the director of the European Commission was long and prime minister there, perhaps being a member of the Union. An architect of the system that is involved, at least he has had very much to do with it. I'm not saying this to talk about the fight against tax fraud, and I certainly think it's normal that everything is on the table regarding corporate property. It's not new for me to talk like that. What I'm calling here is that we can't do this alone. We need to work with others if we are going to have real results, provided we want to hold a prince's hand to keep free flow of capital and people like those in the inner market. There are only facts. We can speak in some way, but there are facts. In any case, people have said that they want to hold on to these things. I think it would be difficult to have the community we have now if we were to change it. I also draw attention to the fact that we are not really alone when it comes to this problem. On April 12, the report on the headline "The Panama of the North " contained a report in the preceding article. There was a report that examined Danish communities. The conclusion was that Denmark was in the north, including Panama. Crime rings and other people are stealing money through the Danish communities. I'm not going to read through the entire report, but I quote Jonas Dahl, former secretary of the tax business. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Dahl has read the report and has come to the simple and clear conclusion that Denmark has reached the northern city of Panama. Danir uses societies in their own country to avoid tax returns, which is the worst. ▪ We in Denmark are very unhappy that people are using Panama to avoid paying taxes in Denmark. And now we see that these communities are used by, for example, Eastern European companies, which use them to avoid paying taxes in their localities. This is followed by a fairly precise review. I'm still a little busy with what British economist John Kay, who came here at the Syndicate, was talking about. Why? In part, John Kay says that a complex system of regulations in the financial world gave the tax heaps of demurrections to both wings. He's quoted at the visor, by permission of the President: A major part of the community's activities is driven by a regular work on such a work that is way too complex, and the financial sector is being introduced. Ideas behind the rule do not work. The rules are intended to govern the financial behavior of people. People try to avoid these rules, and they become more and more complicated. So we're following our tails, so there'll be no end to this. I want us to focus on the construction of the industry and on the encouragement that has to do with the people in this article. We are to do much less by making rules about conduct. This is what John Kay, who was invited here by the United States to discuss these matters precisely. I agree with that, and I think we should go to that job. The financial environment is way too complicated. It's too risky too. Who will bear the risk in the event of a bad outcome? Sadly, not the owners, but the taxpayers of this country. I hope that the occasion that led to the full price of the discussion would enable us to enjoy a happy life together in working out real reforms. Then we have to listen to a man like John Kay, and we have to go all the way down and get to the core of the problem, not just talking about it with the whistles. V.E.G. The minister of finance has considered how we have been involved and have been on the lead in trying to eliminate this in these terms and in the terms and terms ahead, not only in the past but also in the past. Information exchange is naturally essential. I've missed something in my discussion that if they don't think it's enough to do or to have better ideas, they're gonna come up with their own ideas. I think that should be the focus of the discussion that we're just wondering what we can do to go further, what we can do to get better results. My point is that we should listen to John Kay, who was invited here to a country of the United States. I don't care if I don't like that category, I think it was wise of them. What I've seen from that man makes me feel reasonable, and it's obvious that the man knows these matters very well. Then there is also the question, a respected president, where and how we can adopt it in foreign fields. I named two countries that have been referred to as tax paradises, which are our neighboring state, i.e. Luxembourg and Denmark, I refer to Danir as Denmark of the North. Though there are quite large words, I think there's an obvious gap. We also know countries like Cyprus and Malta. These are all countries in the European Union and in the European Economic Area. We are under the contracts we have entered there in great cooperation with these countries, and we will only change them from the European Economic Areas. We have also been too little to criticize the order we have received from the European Union when it comes to the financial sector. We have believed that this arrangement has been planned and accepted. Maybe we can't help taking it all together. Our financial system is more and less built up by the order in the European Union, but we need to look to it with a much more critical thought than we do now. We need to examine obvious things, such as separating investment banks and business banks, but the general rule is that we should try to do so that we do not risk the risky activities in our arms against the taxpayers. I hope we do that job and seriously discuss it. I must admit that I feel that there is nothing wrong with men to criticize. Minister and chief. A government has not gone far enough, and there are other ideas and such, but I think it's quite cheap when people here speak of double - skind hypocrisy, as they have walked. ... tothe ex-whipped. Lilja Mósesdóttir'daughter Liljah, as well as known. Thus, people have not been able to uproot the official societies and adopted it in the management of the Energy Agency shortly before, with the aim of establishing national societies, to reduce costs. I think people should save only big words in this regard. A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. A minister has formed this team of workers, and I trust that when the result comes from that work, we do well at a Senate Hall, as well as at the moment. A panel, but we're not supposed to tie it to tax fraud when it comes to demurrection. We need the nature of the situation, according to our fight against tax fraud, no matter where it is. Sadly, we know that black employment is being practiced in many ways. It simply means that others have to carry the burdens, i.e. Those who give due to their taxes and dues. I agree with those whom we have discussed specifically that the work force has a broad authority, so we view them as some of the things that are not much in our discussion now, and therefore may overlook us, for the nature is always the same when tax fraud is elsewhere. We're here to fight them. A respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the report and what. The conference has been conducted here, a discussion that is about the past, and we need to use this opportunity and learn from it, while the discussion is about how we work on these matters for the future, for that is where we can really have a bearing. It may be even more urgent that we stress it because we do not change the past. What has surprised me the most since I started my work at the General Assembly is how much is lacking in the construction of the financial system is as if those who have come to know the need in spite of a tremendous amount of work in recent years, both in the international community and within the country. It is also thought - provoking, as we have considered in the discussion, how long we can continue to shape complex environmental and financial systems, which, in fact, have no opportunity to understand but those who work in the system. The common user needed for financial services has no opportunity to intervene. The present challenge, to deal with the global trend of moving funds to a deportation society, is international. International bodies must be targeted at transparency. A counterclockwise is the password, the respected president, of the future work and so it is possible to share information between countries so that tax pay will be given to the countries where money is made. Thus, Iceland and I must make a powerful contribution to the worldwide work being carried out in this area. The minister of the state of Lilja Alfreðsdóttir made an announcement earlier. Iceland and I also have opportunities, as in the past, to use ourselves and to be in charge of international work. Among other things, our smallness often gives us the opportunity to analyze the problem in our small society and to share that knowledge with the international community. Thus, it is very positive that both in the administration and in the legal sector, the Agency has been developed to determine the situation and to work and shape the rules for the future. It is very important that the work at the General Assembly and that experts from the management department and the work done by the legislatator is well coordinated so that each one works independently and media information as opportunity affords. The Parliamentary decrees and actions started by the Parliament's committees have led to the development of a administrative committee, a state-of-the-view committee and a financial and business committee to investigate the potential response to the present problem. This ensures that many members of the Parliament have the opportunity to study the matter fully. Although the work is primarily international and international, we need to look to where we can change laws within the country. In the previous week and last Friday, the negative influence of an African society has been made clear, but I wondered what motivated Icelandic banks in their time to direct all these Icelandic customers to form communities in order to move money to a foreign society. There must have been some additional motivation for financial institutions and individual counselors. a number of honest companies into the environment that thrives around these societies, of course, because it is important for financial institutions that have been badly funded to draw also the money that is normally donated. I see an opportunity, and what we should do first within the country is set a clear framework for the activities of financial companies and counselors working in this field, so we can be pretty sure that our associates are not being directed on this course today. A respectable president. These matters can continue for a long time, and I believe that, as I've traced them after discussing them at the council committees and probably more often here at the council Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u55	A respectable president. Yesterday, Iceland was discussed on the front cover of one of Germany's biggest newspapers or a Web edition. Iceland and Iceland officials are all over the world, all over Europe, used in introductions on mountaintops on Panama documents, birthdays, what we can actually call dishonesty in business and the connection between dishonest commerce to politicians. I had an interview with a German TV lady for the weekend. She asked me in the middle of the interview: 'Now it's clear that Icelanders had more societies compared to a population than anyone else. What causes this greed? What is it about the nation of Iceland that makes it seem more corrupt than other nations? I just have to admit that it really surprised me. There were thoughts coming through my head. We Icelandic politicians don't usually ask questions like that. You're not used to thinking about Iceland and Iceland because I don't think the national soul of Iceland is like that. Honesty is highly valued in Iceland, Iceland, in Icelandic national sense. It shows that the information that is being revealed, this global record of our participation in dematerialities, this link between the nation's highest authority to a function that is at best in a dark grey area where secretism is being opened and possibly and not just possible, it has often shown itself that a large part of the nation's society's activities is designed to disseminate taxes, that something is wrong in a society that's going to become such and that we all act as if this should surprise us, because it does. I think we're experiencing a shock of a certain degree of action with a privileged thought that has felt too long in Iceland, in Icelandic business life, and now proving ourselves to be linked even to elected representatives and leaders of the country who should be models. When Iceland shut down all the flights in Europe, the Icelandic government created a video where Icelanders used to dance and strippers to show how refreshing we really were, how cheerful and good people. I ask, what are we going to do now? It is good and important to hear that Iceland is involved in all cooperation and work to prevent tax fraud and abduction. I'm sure it should be the same way we feel about Iceland as it is about to be on the tip of every struggle for human rights. We need to take responsibility for what has happened and for what has been revealed. I say for my part as a general, elected councilman here that I feel a deep shame, although I do not know myself to have connections with such organizations, to participate in administrative affairs, and to represent in a society where men are suggesting that it is even normal for elected representatives to have such a bix. I've heard a representative of the Independence Party come up here and talk as if it isn't that serious because others have, because things are horrible in Denmark, because it was ever spoken of in Reykjavík's energy company that was never formed. [[It was agreed on by the board.]] But they never formed it. [[It's been agreed on.]] Where is the humility in this? How can we handle these matters and expect to be taken seriously if we are trapped in the matter of not seeing it because someone else did something? [[Up front.]] That's not an option.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u56	A respectable president. This has been two hours of well discussed at the council in connection with my report on the measures we have decided to take in the administrative system for these matters. I have long considered the main thing, to continue the international cooperation, to deepen it, and to monitor what is being done in the area of OECD and elsewhere. Actually, OECD has been on the lead. In the past few weeks, we have been involved in meetings there, and we will follow up on action. A continuation of information exchange agreements and all international cooperation will be extended and continued. Then I've made an explanation of a group of work I've established and specific measures to gather together the information on the scope of the problem. That's not all I'm going to do. The discussion has been discussed in many places, and there are examples of what one would want to do about changing laws, e.g. accessing the local legal legislation to purchase data. Some have taken very deep note, and today some heavy words have fallen today. What distinguishes them well, I feel that they are fully advanced. We do not have at this point the information that all those who have been involved in the development of the land have taken all their money on an African island. This is not a place or a time to make such claims, no such information is available, or that some others have been connected to some resource in some way placed them on national islands. I haven't seen that kind of information. If the general conclusion is that the use of resources in Iceland has ended in profit, which has since taken a tax law on the African Islands, I shall be on the front of those who condemn it. I feel that it has also been very prominent during the discussion that people do not want to make a legal distinction and then follow laws when it comes to these associates. This has often been mentioned as a twin or even hypocritical part of the discussion. What is it other than a pair of people who have come to this room, in this chair, to set up laws on how to give up information about property or income in this area, and they go to the government tax manager, get instructions, print out of the forms, only conscientiously return these things to sit here under the discussion that these same people are, as they were said before, in an active and personal desire to undermine the well - being of their own society? I don't think this is a big discussion. [[The president calls.]] People who follow the laws given to them by these same people are dependent on the fact that they are active and themselves want to undermine the well - being of society. The CFC legislation takes back more or less all the taxable benefits of settling in low taxes. We've got information exchange agreements trying to ensure that everything is given up, and these issues need to be taken into account and then the tax frauds and the illegalities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u57	A respectable president. Here's a bill that's going to be recommended to correct the adjustment of the elementary school law. The Constitution of the Government for the current 145th legislation is announced that there will be two basics of elementary school, one bill for the adjustment of basic school laws involved in lawsuits, legal boundaries, and the execution of vacation homes and a bill to legalize private schools. Initially, a total law on an independent central school, just as it has been done in Denmark and Norway, made the bill seem to be the best thing to do in the basic school law, thus allowing one of the same laws to apply to a basic school, regardless of who handled their business. So the bill I now recommend contains the contents of two of the bills on elementary school that were announced to submit to the current legislature of the Government Constitution. Part of the bill was submitted to the 144th legislature but was not granted. However, the bill, as recommended today, contains much more detailed regulations on the subject of the independent discharge of elementary school than were, as well as on regulations now laid out by students' leisure activities in elementary schools, which could not be found in the bill as previously stated. The bill listed here is written and put forth for various reasons. For one thing, it is only a matter of independent middle school directors in one of the principles of modern elementary school. It says that the same laws and rules as those of rural elementary school are applied to independent middle school. This frame of law is blurred, has been incomplete, and has caused doubt on the implementation of basic school law. The bill suggests the reaction to this inexplicability of needed law adjustments. Second, the terms of local government law, No. 138/2011, and 45. g. A basic school that's about community cooperation in elementary school. The bill suggests that this inconsistencies will be dealt with in a way that shows up to 45. Basic schools will be updated in accordance with local administration regulations and thus ensure harmonization between the two layers. Third, the current lawsuits of the administrative decision taken on the basis of elementary school law have caused problems, as well as to which they have caused uncertainty in their ministry. Today, basic school laws in a precise and exhaustive way which decisions are indictable to the Ministry of Education and Culture, while other decisions made on the basis of the law are charged with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This bill suggests that all administrative decisions taken on the basis of elementary school law will be prosecuted to the Ministry of Education and Culture, thereby solving the above uncertainty. Fourth and final, the law is 33. A basic school center on vacation homes since 1995 has developed in many ways. In recent years, the Ministry of Education and Culture has received information from various sources, including the Children's Agent, which describes concern for legal matters on the outcome of leisure activities. The bill recommended here gives new guidelines for children's leisure home in secondary school, with the goal of making regulations more clear than is currently available. A respectable president. Now, I come to the individual branches of the bill. With 1 st. It is proposed to change the term used in basic school law so that there will continue to be talk about school services in law rather than special services. Two. suggests 5 mg. Section 6. The junior school's gonna go away. In the 9th. The bill is expected to change this rule and be 5 mg. Section 6. Therefore, there is no need and the right to take her away. With a factor of 3. is suggested by a school director's directive to determine the implementation of school courses with students of leisure work who had agreed with a school committee, a school council of the school, and parents. In Comb 4. The bill holds 33rd. The basis for school will continue to be held exclusively for leisure and social activities and is therefore suggested that the headline of this article be changed, as well as the delegating of longer - term requirements. Instead, a new article will be presented that will focus only on a temporary home in Article 5. With a 5. The bill is presented with a new law that allows all children in a second class for a vacation home service, but local communities decide on how the work is being carried out. However, rural society will be permitted not to invite you to a vacation home if there are valid reasons for doing so, e.g. Fewer or geographical conditions. It is suggested that the term "X" section of the law be converted to self-registered elementary schools, as well as the proposed conversion of 43. g. The basic schools and six new articles will be added to the laws that will be 43 p.m. a to 43th par. f. What features of these articles will now be considered in more detail. An independent pre-school program is suggested by 43. g. The basic schools, as well as the law, describe fundamental elements in school planning in independent elementary schools. With 43 st. a will be discussed on the service contracts between rural society in and management society and that the Ministry should confirm such agreements. It will also recommend that a community can refuse to make such a contract or limit it to a certain number of students. Finally, what to do will be determined by ten figures at least It's in these contracts. With 43 st. b will be discussed on rural funds, which is suggested that the current standard for public contributions remain unchanged. The rule has been in force since the beginning of 2007. However, public donations are suggested to be calculated monthly, not annually, as is now being done. Finally, it will require special permission for rural society to pay for an independent, active school form. With 43 st. c will be discussed about the freedom of the business plans of independent schools at present. However, in order to ensure legal clarity, as well as to satisfy legal authority for the demands of the operator's organization, it is suggested that the standard requirements for private students who run elementary schools in four numbers, which are now set out in a Regulation set out in the basic school law. With 43 st. d will discuss the general demand for schooling in independent elementary schools in nine numbers. The purpose of this rule is to ensure the minimal benefit of the training and services provided by an independent middle school director and to make no doubt about the interaction between the other regulations of the elementary school law and the school functions of an independent school. 43rd. e will be measured in nine numbers the special duties of the team that are activated when their private school contract involves that the private person takes up a school as children or their parents do not have a choice for whether or not they are enrolled. The purpose of this law is to set up the special duties that will be used when society's contract with a private school student involves that the private person will take on a business of one or all of the community's schools. This principle requires quite a bit of a need, for existing legislation is primarily directed to the optional schools of independent education. This has caused some problems with the project. In general, the responsibilities involved in this article are already responsible for the community's basic schools and their responsibilities in order to give school - age access to free elementary school. However, it is extremely important that agreements on these important rights of children are clear, and there is an advantage for rural society, the head of schools, parents, and their children to measure the minimum minimum rights of children in general and transparent ways. It's suggested that 43nd. f must find authorised authority. With a 7. The bill is submitted to the new section 45. g. ......... 138/2011, where it is recommended that their regulations apply to the cooperation of fellow rurals in elementary school. By 13. The UN Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural rights validated by Iceland and 29. The United Nations Convention on Child Rights, which was legalized in this country by law No. 19/2013 is the responsibility of the State to provide children with the right to general education, not to include the intervention of human rights and groups to establish and govern educational institutions, there is always a set of principles on education rights and minimum level of education that the government may provide. In other words, these regulations allow for freedom to establish and run schools of education. This freedom is based on and is closely related to the right of parents to choose schools for their children as well as their right to guarantee their own religious and moral education. On the other hand, this does not include any right to private contributions from government to elementary school in a separate school. It has an 8. This bill suggested at 46. g. The basic school law is improved by a new paragraph that a secretary can grant the manager permission to work under basic school law if a community has refused to negotiate a service contract with the operator, which does not involve the right to an official contribution. With a count of 9. The bill is suggested that all administrative decisions taken by elementary school and rural society on the basis of basic school law become relevant to the Ministry of Education and Culture, including decisions made in independent functional schools. Finally, a respectable president, has a 10. provided the name of XI. the section of the law will be turned into Development Schools, partnerships, home study, resolution of controversies, etc. A detailed paper with the bill will help you to analyze each paragraph of the subject and the points that I have covered in my speech. A respectable president. I expect the case to be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u58	A respectable president. There are a lot of things on the bill that are really good to see. As a former school student in the capital, it is very important to see clear rules about leisure and leisure work, the possibility of linking school activities and vacation work. I also believe that many who are responsible for school at the level of the rural government will clearly identify the rules of integration, even against rural communities. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on eight. Because outside the school business is being explained. It is stated that once a school has an approved rural government and has a service contract, a local company has permission to set rules or peaks of school fees according to official contributions. But 8th. It seems that a minister is granted the authority to grant permission to school, even against the will of a local partner, but it is assumed that he must seek counsel rather than say that he needs to submit to it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister what ideas exist in cases of a school that does not have a service contract and does not have public financial support, any ideas about possible school expenses, whether or not we're building a small school or if a roof is on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's comment, saying: The idea is not in any way the law to lay the foundation of some schools, especially in the form of a dog. A senator put it, by permission of the president, to private schools. The following is an international agreement that Iceland has agreed on. It means that people have the right to start schools. If the person met all the general school requirements but then it turns out that the local community does not want to make a deal, the person may get the approval of the Ministry of Education or recognition that the person meets all conditions. This recognition includes not a promise or any requirement for the person on charge or money from the government but only the perks that I still consider to be the result of the international commitments of Iceland, that men have the right to set up such schools. In fact, such a situation is not often tested, nor is it expected that it will become a common subject. But I think it's right to make it clear in the law that if the Ministry can be consulted for some reason, even in a defamatory way, they don't want to negotiate, but that society has that right. There is no one who can force the local community to negotiate because the local community must look to the main policy it has to ensure a good school job and child rights on access to school, but if the community does not want to make any agreement with the relevant party, he can turn to the Ministry and be recognized at least by the school meeting the requirements. That's what I think makes sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u60	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It is now that rural society, of course, is obliged to offer school services and school space for all children who live in that community, so that local society may have to be prepared to provide school services to even a large number of children who live in the countryside but who live in private or other schools. Hence, it is only natural that rural governments are making a big contribution to the organization of all school services in their rural communities. But the main ingredient of my question earlier, which I would like to have a slightly clearer answer to from the highest. Minister, it was that if this occurred, i.e. that a local society had denied a private school for a service contract or confirmation, not really important whether it's legal or not, then a minister here has the authority to grant permission to such schools. Are there any rules regarding what school fees such a school that does not have a contract or a government commitment might be called for from students?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-04-108.u61	A respectable president. As regards the purpose of the bill, I cut down on the text of the report, with the permission of the president, i.e. ▪ To ensure that Icelandic laws do not completely rule out the right to set up schools without public donations, as it seems to be a valid law. That's basic. In my opinion, we don't object to forbid individuals to set up and run schools. The question is interesting as any day. A senator will direct me, i.e. whether or not there will be any special rules on the amount of school fees. I think there's such a thing to be thought of. It's not particularly addressed here, but I think this is a good suggestion and a need for the committee to discuss and, for example, see the average budget in schools in that area, as we really do when it comes to calculating the contributions to private schools, i.e. Some geometric meanness is observed, and schools get a certain percentage of it and then they can reimburse schools on top of it. It is likely that some of such views would have to be viewed in this regard, and it would be reasonable to conclude that in the case of the committee and the council, it would be appropriate to discuss whether it is reasonable or normal to introduce an expression there. At least I will not resist such a thing. In fact, the bill text in the report says that it is quite unlikely that it will be a problem that often arises. But the reason for this is because it is my opinion that it cannot be forbidden to set up schools. I don't think there's any Icelandic law to rule it out, but by the ministry's recognition there's no need or right to public financial contributions. [[The president calls.]] It's very important to be clear.
