ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u1	The program suggested at the end of a meeting yesterday has been called again.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u2	A respectable president. We have received reports that the end of the council is likely to have been negotiated, and we can begin working on the current issues. I hope it's all over today. In the fall of this year, we have been blessed with good cooperation at the council on many fine matters, and there are many good things here that we have to do before the end of the council. I'd like to talk about issues like social security, where our ideal older citizens are very interested in us. I hope we can only add meat to the bones there and present a bill that will improve the interests of older citizens. It is quite clear that the bill that already contains simple ones, which sees the law and order very much, and that greatly benefits all who have to work around it and those older citizens who have just had trouble understanding their terms. I've studied it very accurately myself, and that's why I'm very happy about the bill that's being presented here. I hope we'll finish by the end of the council. I trust that in this hall, we will agree to meet older citizens in a way that is decent for us and that we can all agree in our campaign that their election needs to be improved and that we will improve their terms over the next few days and that they will be carried out for years. I think that there are a lot of situations in this community, that we show older people the respect that their benefits will be improved, and they can join us in a new year with joy in heart because the benefits have been improved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u3	V.E.G. President. When it turns out that an assembly is about to end and we can start running to the election, you've wondered about the other things and these things that are happening in society and how things have worked out in the past three and a half years. Clearly, there are a lot of economic growth and a number of things that look to better ways in Icelandic society. We can be happy about it, but there are still many things that can go better. This week I attended a conference or a seminar in the University of Iceland, where the headline was: Do we want a community without a teacher? There were some reports that over the years, there are a lot of problems in Icelandic education systems because we do not graduate enough teachers, neither as teachers nor as basic teachers. When you look at another major foundation in the health - care system, it has also been shown during the term that they face a real problem with design in medical institutions This is something we have to put ahead of us in this campaign, I think, and all classes. It was called after this conference to the university this week that a national agreement would arise on how we're going to handle these matters, if not badly. As a nation, it is clear to us that we must listen to this call and consider it. If we don't reach the two principals in modern Icelandic society, which are the health and education system, we're first in serious ice. Then there is no financial crisis that compares with that. I hope that during the campaign, these issues will be given a lot of discussion and will be discussed with a much greater enthusiasm and honesty than was, for example, the case. ... madethelastelection. These are key elements in every community today, i.e. Health and education systems. Without them, we're nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u4	V.E.G. President. I'd like to give a little consideration to yesterday's National Bank of Iceland decision to keep operating growth unchanged, in 5.25%. The decision at any given time is to reduce demand, but this is not enough because almost all of the country's homes have security loans and the Federal Bank's operating growths at any given time do not affect it. Who's benefiting? Yes, the dollar goes up. Inflation is low. The crown is rising, but inflation should be much lower, since the effects of a higher crown do not fully yield to consumers, but the traders are profiting from the decision made by the Federal Bank. A large sum also affects exporting roads, such as fishing roads and tourism. Therefore, the harbor bank has to resort to some kind of voodoo method to control everything, including by buying currency as never before to hold back the increase of the crown, which is a direct result of the direction of interest. However, there may be one group that greatly profites from the fact that fliers are very high here, foreign landowners. This is how the Council of Churches had to take special note of the Federal Bank in spring by putting on a sort of binding duty in order to prevent the flow of capitals into the country. That didn't quite work. But foreign farm owners are in a position to be like a teenager who does not want to leave his parents'home because he is so comfortable there. That's why these Afghans are lying on top of us Icelanders, and they don't want to leave the prison of Már May Guðmundsson. Every man sees that it's like that. Nothing else makes sense for a man who lives in Sweden who has a Swedish crown that is falling but to come to Iceland and buy new Icelandic dollars, which, of course, is growing on 5.5% interest instead of -0.25 in Sweden. It's natural crazy. We have to lower the growth rate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u5	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, who was here the first to speak, was rather optimistic that it was now time for us to complete this council. I want to be optimistic. A senator and I certainly hope that the conclusion is coming from the way we complete this council. We are about to become a complete fraud here at the General Assembly, where we have worked without a plan or plan. Of course, that is not how we work forever. To my surprise, I must say, when I saw the program for today, that it was the job of the council that should be discussed here at the beginning of a council meeting. To be honest, I had been hoping that this would be an unprepared period of inquiry where members of the council could have a place of words and ask the highest degree of question. Minister of Questions. Of course, it is important for an election to have access to the highest level. Counsellors and can direct them to questions. I wanted to form a place to speak to the highest level. Secretary of State for the United Nations General Assembly, which is imminent. I know that it is to discuss proposals for nuclear disarmament in the world, but I have heard that the nuclear powers there are under intense pressure. I would have liked to have been able to talk here today, but I'm afraid it's not possible. [[The president calls.]] And I wonder, "Where are the highest? Ministers? They're off to the campaign while we're still here at the council? But I say once again: I hope we see a hook at the end of this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u6	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by celebrating it, like the rest of us. Councilmen, that the officers of the clans are at least at the moment, I believe, to agree on how we're doing here and how we can complete important matters and complete the council. This is important to all of us because the shape of the council is created. That's why it matters to all of us. The election has long since begun, so to speak, it may be said that there is an ongoing struggle and should not include a temporary divorce, a beginning or an end, but, of course, you have sensed here during the discussion and, especially, in the chairmanship of the president's program. I wonder what they'll vote for. That's just what you can ask yourself. The metals, the direction, the promises. I have a direct share in such a struggle now for the second time, and I can just say that it's exciting and exciting. I'm just looking forward to it, of course. There's been a lot of discussions on the subjects, on infrastructure, housing, health and welfare matters, even educational matters. This has been prominent in the discussion, and is that understandable, but will it really be chosen? Is it what matters, that we drum each other in promises and expenses? I don't think so, I think it's a real stability choice. That word in itself means that the success that has been achieved during this terms of economic building, home has dropped their debt, job life is on a solid foundation, living in stability - I think it will be a real choice for stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u7	Mr. President. I've been thinking a little bit about the status of people 50 years of age and older in society, both the workforce and politics, and how people of that age are viewed, the way their participation is in society. I have felt as if he had spoken down to this group, that he had come to the last turn, and should not be in front. The media cannot be said to raise these people, either in business or in politics. When a person loses a job in the middle of his age, he may find it very difficult to get back to work in a job market and to get a similar job or to have a chance to go to new jobs to find a suitable job. I think this is a project that must be done on both the labour market partners, politics and especially the media, how they talk about people who have become 50 plus, as if they were already on the edge of the grave, and where they can squeeze anything more out of any sense, that the young people can only say something about it. This experience and knowledge there is, human beings - society such as ours, and, of course, all communities, to make full use of it. Now that we're about this age, 50 plus, we're supposed to talk honestly about these things. I know that much men 50 years of age and older are often spoken of in positions of authority, but it doesn't show that many women are in that sector. [[The president calls.]] I think it needs to be honest with you and that this should not be a shy matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u8	A respectable president. As the election approaches, I'd like to discuss only a problem in our campaign system. We have a threshold, a 5% threshold, that may not necessarily be bad. But all votes that go to classes that do not reach this 5% threshold actually fall dead. In the last election, 12% of the votes fell dead in this way. As I say, there may be good reasons to have a threshold. However, it has been discussed, and I think it is a democratic way, to create the system so that the voter can choose the option two. Perhaps someone has the desire to select a class that will be measured by 2.5% in polls, but he decides to prefer rhythms instead of choosing with his heart. A dresser could then put one X to the category he chooses first and is his first choice, but then get another selection so that if the category he chose could not be 5% followed, the vote applied to the next category he chose. That's the method that Þorkell Helgason has established and is well - known and democratic. I think we need to look at this because it's incorrigibly when voters don't make their way, like the last election. Opinions are subjective. Therefore, in some places they are banned for some particular time before the election. But I want to encourage people, because, unfortunately, we haven't changed the system, to vote with the heart. Opinions may be misleading. We can see that, for example. with Pirata, who just got into Congress with 5% but reached a much larger panel of polls. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u9	Mr. President. I'd like to make it a subject of a statement by the presidents of the university that is published in magazines today, and they all sign, that they express deep concern over the affairs of the university of the country where the government financial programme for 2017-2021 assumes total tax gain to build up a community but leaves the university behind. According to OECD, U.S. universities are greatly subsidized and given twice as much money per student as colleges in other parts of the North countries. We've talked about it here before, and that has even been true. The direction of the Scientific and Technical Council to make a contribution to each student will be comparable to the North countries in 2020, but in accordance with the state-of-the-art programme established by the current government groups. There is no doubt that the research there is the driving force behind all developments in the country and university studies is, of course, the key to the success of the nations. The statement says that the university is essential for the development of Icelandic society and that I can accept that they prepare everyone for their job life, not just young people, but all who pursue college, making it possible for them to be active participants in the workplace. It asserts that continued subfundation of university levels will have negative effects on university, research, cultural and innovation, and thus on the future social development and competitiveness of Iceland. The declaration asserts that under the same conditions, the colleges cannot function normally and are actually in danger. It is an incentive for us politicians to ask us to reinvest ourselves in the infrastructure, invest in colleges, and therefore we have left greens and, of course, we will be assigned to do so by the voters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u10	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying what a couple of people have. Councilmen have talked about here and are happy that there is an agreement between the heads of the administrations. I think it's very important on the shape of the council. But there are issues that are very important to finish and that I mention, for example. Social security and any step, most prominently, will be in the calculation of an index. However, there is something else I was going to discuss today. I'd like to discuss the regional policies that we assistants stress in today's campaign. We want to use the tax system in an indiscriminate way for the people of the country. These include a discount of travel costs to and from work, that those who have to go to work long distances get tax discounts against travel costs. This arrangement is recognized in the countries we compare with, e.g. in the North, and so for us Icelanders, it is perfect for us to examine and take up such measures. This action will undoubtedly strengthen the country's various sectors. In addition, we would like to consider whether a company in the country could have a lower insurance bill that encourages various companies and institutions to export their jobs abroad. Besides, we'd like to use the tax system in an indiscriminate way for the people of the country. More important, it is the use of the student loan system in an indiscriminate way for the people of the country. This could be done so that those who are determined to serve, e.g. in medical institutions where doctors or other specialists are lacking, they receive a discount from their student loans. This would be a major step toward increasing national availability to health care. It's nice to tell you that this was one of the very first works. Minister of the Future Party, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson of Sveins, after he took over as the minister of agricultural and marine eviction in spring. [[The president calls.]] It will be very exciting to see what comes out of that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u11	V.E.G. President. I'm here to pick up a case as a matter of course. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir did in a memorable way last night, i.e. The amazing story that the hour has been telling us and we received news about last night's judgment on the County Court of Reykjavík, where a five - year - old boy has been taking the power of his Icelandic grandmother, mother, and family to bring him to Norway for the next 13 years, where the child will be allowed to meet his mother twice a year for two hours, or four hours a year, and the grandmother who has cared for the child for a long time will not get to see the baby. I don't know any Norwegian child protection laws, but it seems harsh to me that they are such wickedness and such punishment. I'm not going to go through the history of this case. The mother came off the road of life but has found her again. I'm asking, "What's the right of the baby?" Does the boy have anything to say about whether he'll stay with his grandmother or save somewhere in the great Norway compared with what I said here? A respectable president. It seems to me that in the process there is a modern child robbery performed by the Norwegian Child Welfare. I cannot be a citizen of this country and of these people, and therefore speak here at the High Council. The boy's being sent to the Norwegian Children's Guardians must never happen. Why don't the people move from Norway to Iceland once they're back home? They were going to look for a better life just after a crash, but it seems to me that it's turning into a total nightmare. This can never happen. A respectable president. I have been in this program many times during my 17 - year session. However, I have never had my heart pierced to discuss a matter. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to leave this talk chair sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u12	V.E.G. President. There are two points that have been presented in the discussion, separate cases that I was going to take on. On the one hand, it was the other. paritaprevir Esu Lára Arnardóttir about the ideas she and her party have for changing the tax system in behalf of the country. I must express deep doubts about such ideas. I think the tax system should be as simple as it will be, and if you want to take any specific action to support individual settlements it would be better to do so in a direct way than to complicate the tax system or other such systems. I'm basically thinking that a simple tax system is for the benefit of everyone. Rather than using government funds to cover the financial expenses of an enterprise as if it were really the case, a decision to make with open eyes is more simple to support individual settlements. The other point I would like to mention is, in effect, a moment of reflection. paritaprevir Pétursdóttir's bandit on the campaign system. Of course, in a democracies community, there are many different ways to organize campaign systems. The system we live in is not perfect in any way. This is better than what we had in the past, but there are various flaws. It is important and fundamental that the election system reflects the will of voters. On the other hand, I do not find it unnatural or inconceivable to make certain demands for minimum political support so that it would be at the General Assembly to avoid the crisis and confusion that can result if it is too easy to bring representatives into Congress. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u13	A respectable president. I declared to the president yesterday, and I think it's the first day, too, that while we senators who are in this hall can't get into the campaign like the rest of the nation's population, we're in the short future votes from this chair, and I'm going to start now. I want to talk about the bright future and what political power we are. Today, a number of campaign tests are being prepared, a nice test, to help people make their own decisions. One of them is the tomb of a social science organization, which clearly shows that a bright future is a liberal and international class. We are at the top of a magazine, and at the very least we disagree with other classes, which are more prepacked and isolated. This has been done since the formation of the group in 2012. First, I'd like to say I'm glad that others agree with our presentation. Today, we even have entire groups that adopt our theme. That's fine. But now that people of that category are beginning to appear because their following is up to the dollars and ours to start the pills, I want to direct people to see which parties have been fighting for the particular companies, the special interests of production, etc. and then look at who can be trusted in that case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u14	A respectable president. It sounds like the last speaker that he's formed the third United States. Everyone's competing for the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u15	What about the fourth?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u16	Well, who knows if she doesn't show up? [[Consider: Will you come then?]] A good group of kids has often been popular. I don't know when to start it. [[To the point: You've got a good one.]] What I wanted to talk about here is exactly the job of the council. They say the campaign struggle is here, fired from here. I believe the current government has run it all the perfect period by leading many good things to the outcome of society. It must be said, as it happens, that the past loss has been far better than that of many jobs and has been exemplary. Here, the council has agreed to resolve many good things and to discuss them wisely, without speech, and any other such. Sadly, the last days have not been like that. It has made me very sad to see that when it comes to such a program as a four-year transport program that I think is so happy to finish and everyone thinks it's national protocols, they need to start extending meetings and talking more on different topics and to accuse a person as soon as they're not there. I've been waiting here day after day to get to the rosary to discuss this national contract. Then there's all kinds of other discussions and the President's conference board. It tells itself that you do not always feel tired of being there to hear such a talk. I would like to point out the points on the program today that show that we could have used the last few days in a number of cases: financial support at the first apartment, temporary reimbursement due to recording music, authorship, release of capital scourging, public shopping. Then there are other good things to wait for, like the LAIN, and then there's social security on the way in, too. [[The president calls.]] We can take advantage of the time in matters that benefit the nation. That's what we're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u17	V.E.G. President. Before the council there are issues that are about to shape a policy to reduce the use of harmful substances on consumer products. Very good, and I need a case. For example, the only way to monitor the lips, whether they contain roofies, is to analyze the product to verify its contents. Such analyses are very costly, and this is why they have not been attacked in this country. I think it's very serious, especially because the share of markets is increasing, i.e. Trades in countries where the use of chemicals is thought to be higher and less expensive for the experienced, thus natural costs and the content is so high because of the need for monitoring. Sadly, the legislation today is far more tailored to the interests of the manufacturer than to the interests of the public and consumers. I think we're throwing away certain possibilities by deciding that it's just too expensive to do research. For example, we have not even checked to see if there are any jump tests. The evil properties of certain panels are known. They may affect human fertility, cause cancer and allergies. Then fetuses and newborn babies are the most susceptible to these substances. So I don't think it's a matter to belittle or try to joke about. These substances are persistent and accumulate in our bodies. I believe we have the right to know what is in the products we buy, the plastic bottles, the containers for food, bottles, nards, toys, and other items for children with furniture and table equipment, etc. The rest of the North have done well in this regard. There, people are fully aware of the impact these substances can have, and they link them not only with environmental concerns but also with welfare issues. I don't think we should be the only northern nation to minimize the damage to these chemicals. It would be good, since this matter has been very comfortable between classes, as shown in the discussion, that we tried to put it through so that we do not have to measure for such an important consumer matter again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u18	A respectable president. Once again, I'm going to discuss the plane's issues. For the shortest time, I lay down with others. Councilmen present a bill to correct the change in the law on the equation of oil transport costs in order to equalise fuel prices between international airports. Today, there is an equation of oil products transport costs that ensure that fuel prices are not the same between individuals and companies. In addition to the simple fairness of life, it is important to match the circumstances and competitiveness of companies around the country as much as possible. This equation is not valid for transport fuels, e.g. Airplane fuel for international flight. This results in a much more expensive fuel level in Akureyri and Egls than in Keflavík. This flims up the competitive position of the choice, working against which airlines see fit to set up regular flights to places in Iceland other than Keflavík. It is suggested that the equation system also includes oil for use in international hatches and international flies. The aim is to match the position of international airports and the oceans. Interest in international flights to new destinations has increased, and some airlines have already sent in applications for the strength of the air development fund made this year. So I think it's important to get the company's initial response to the bill and that the case will be discussed at the Council, although it is hardly handled at this council. Other routes may be superior, even better, in order to level the competitiveness of international airports, but it is important to find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to make serious comments to the president's career yesterday. A program is proposed for the council but certainly not all of them had a committee opinion. However, according to the council, more things in the Assembly Hall can be called off a committee. The president decides to cancel the case, but he says that there is a formality in the motion, that it is not really tackled. Either a case is arranged, and then the president sets the matter up without a lawsuit, or the proposal is not taken, and then the case will not be planned. Then we could have been able to take up the talk in the middle room how to understand the Assembly Hall. The work I had last night was a disgrace to me. I'd like to reiterate that if the president doesn't feel that the proposal is not a conquistancy, it won't be scheduled. If he puts it on the program, he does not reflect on the fact that it is defective or inadequate. I don't think it makes sense, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u20	A respectable president. Once again, I welcome the discussion of transportation, which I believe is the biggest welfare issue in my life, and I don't get tired of saying it. This is evident because safe transport primarily reduces road accidents and costs the community about 50 billion a year, apart from social costs. In traffic alone, there are 200 people who are seriously injured or killed each year. We've got to stop this from happening, and we've got to stop it soon. I've got some suggestions for working and I'd like to win a career where EuroRap has charted the road, where the most dangerous roads are, and the most accidental. I got this conclusion in response to an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, earlier in the winter. Using these data, we can take steps to reduce the number of road accidents within a short period of 50%. Careful estimates of this operation would cost over a period of several years a total of about 9 billion dollars. but would save each year at least 25 billion. It's perfectly obvious that this is something that's supposed to attack and that's what we're all about to do. We must agree on that. But it's not just the security part, even though the safety is number one, two and three. The economic economy is often involved. It increases the economic effectiveness of companies and public institutions and other means of transport. Making transportation helps to run rural and government institutions by facilitate cooperation and even cohesion. This spreads tourists around the country, saves the time of public traffic, it is environmentally friendly, and it could continue to be counted. This is what we need to consider, but even though transportation matters get stuck a little bit in the road and road accidents discussion, and all of that, I believe that we should make all transportation our own. We are not to favor another means of transportation, that is important. Therefore, I would like to express great pleasure in the efforts of Iceland's Air Association in starting an internal flight from Keflavík to Akureyri and hope that this is only the beginning of a more powerful national flight system to distribute tourists across the country and increase the service of the residents. I'm right to say that if a powerful international flight builds up at Keflavík, and in other locations around the country, it will undoubtedly strengthen the international flight to the city of Reykjavík, since it could cause tourists to fly off to the land of Cheflavík and then fly back to the capital or vice versa, take public transportation to the capital and begin to visit it and then fly from Reykjavík's airport to shore and then fly straight to Chefavik before they fly out. This will only help each other. Travel companies around the country have over 70 degrees [70 ° C.] that they can deliver to get tourists through the international flight if they start in Kraffík. That is why I challenged more airlines to be exemplary, encouraging them to do good work in this. This is very important. In my first speech, I discussed just how important it is to find ways to get more people to run the national airport across the country, market them, and find some work for them. Over the years, I have discussed whether the international airports could come to a private, rural, or mixed - minded person who would take over the business in a more practical way and often in a more practical way than the State can by its legal means. It would be a strengthening system to help with the management of these choices, as is the case with rejections. If the harbors meet certain requirements, their communities run the harbors and develop a scholarship. This is how airport conditions for population populations can be developed, the importance of hospital flights, tourists, and so forth the airport becomes stable, the driver can apply for strength, and then find out what to do and try to market the airport and use it properly. If internal flights begin from Cheflaví to some extent, the use of these defects and practicality in their operations will increase. All of this helps. This is extremely important, and I always remind you that the international flight is one of the most important public transportation systems we have today and one of the most used. I'd like to better get to the harbours I had to cross to the dogs last time. There is one of the most important occupational instruments in every community and surrounding areas that enjoy them. The importance of these rejections needs to be given more leeway in the discussion. It provides a basis for the development of the project and also for a link to import and export products. Where there are strong ports, there can be abundant and varied employment both in fish farming and in international transport, storage, ferrying, and similar. This is important. I'd like to take an example of the importance of staying on ports and then name the harbor on the Hornfjord. It is often like an island because of its distance from its capital, weather conditions, and so forth. They build most of it on a fishing project. If the docks were to close, probably 70% of the equipment would have gone overnight or at least ... seriouslydrunk. Then we'd be in danger of crime. It is very important to study the dock situation and to investigate transport in general is very important, whether it is a tunnel or a port, a road, a flight, or anything else. We need to consider these conditions in many parts of the country. I also mentioned the last village crew, but from there we are receiving reports every month of any changes in our employment activities, either reports or exchanges. The projects that we have been building on transport programmes and on the budgets of the past few years will make a big difference in their job life and its diversity. There is a large agricultural region around which farmers are increasingly willing to move groceries to a foreign market, to obtain resources and equipment that will be good for e.g. With ferry cruises and a lot more practical. It can have a wide variety of food and other products and will take a shorter route of sailing; it is not necessary to sail completely for the Rhine that will shorten the delivery time into the market, and so on. Time is always so short as a person is being dosed here to discuss this important matter, but I am stressing that transportation is the key to improving the growth of economic growth, increasing the income we are going to use in the welfare business, but it is also a prerequisite for reducing the pressures of the welfare system, since good transportation reduces the number of accidents and so forth, and then the cost is practical. We have to keep in mind how important it is for us to talk about this and maybe, as I've been in the past, that we'll talk about the big, important things, not just by special transport projects. First, we need to determine the importance of the seminary and the capital, and then we need to give it the most practical and sensible, and the safest.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. When it comes to a transportation program, which was often most enjoyable, a candidate for the talk as well as for the cohesion of the committee. Although we had been tailored a bit narrowly from the executive enterprise financially, I believe the committee has managed to work well with what she had from playing. I found it interesting to hear that emphasis as a matter of course. A senator began and ended up, i.e. that the changing process of working in the treatment of the situation, especially here at the council. There is a list of danger zones where security improvements can be made. There's a projection plan, plans for big business, but we're working with this here at the council, we don't work with this kind of information. We have a transport program, as it happens, and then we get a wide range of views from here to there from all the parts of the country. Then you come up with a "hoc," like, "e.g. The way from Fitum to the terminal. I'd like to say something with a what. A senator that I would like to see that in the future the Senate will work better with priorities based on objective assessments that will take into account the security issues and based trends, such as The unity of rural society and of such, that it would be supported by a powerful transport support and the prospect of a job development. It's a good example. It would've been over for a long time if men had some of those views in mind and the members of Congress were actually dealing with the information based on policy and facts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u22	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator for the best cooperation on the Committee. That's exactly where we agreed. I am also glad that we share in the matter and how they agree with the committee's opinion and commend the people instead of having something to do with the votes and the like. We agree that this is the way it should be, and then we don't have to argue about it. Rather, we help us reach a conclusion. Everyone deserves to be thanked for the outcome. We agree that we have to do this in the most reasonable way. We are making enormous investments in transportation. They can have tremendous impact, making it most practical and reasonable for planning and policy making. It should not be so that those who have most members of the council or who are most aggressive in fighting may get their way, which, in turn, does not bring the most to the community. That's not a good use on public funds, not at all. Many people may begin to feel a bit afraid that their territory will be left out because they are small and far away. That's not true at all. The evidence I have quoted contains one of the most dangerous roads in the country east of the Shire. There is one of the most dangerous roads in the country that would set high priorities and many more roads. However, if we have certain policies, there must be some way we can deal with the changing circumstances, so a case such as the Smokey Way from The Fits would not have come in here. All we would have seen was that the population growth was so great, the population growing like this and the diversity of industry. We must act immediately and change our plans and install such tasks so that we do not need to fight because it is at the end of the row. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u23	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. You see, I agree so completely with what. A senator over there. The thing about the Smokey Lane opened your eyes to this, and you wondered why such a road would not go automatically in some process. There's obviously too much stress, too much traffic, and this is part of the main artery into the country. We focus on the tourism. I want to see that this can go on by itself, that the senators don't have to come together and put pressure on something to be done because something happened. A man wondered what we can do here at the council, how we can change, what tools we can use to further the work we were discussing. I would also like to mention that after I've been at the council all these years, I personally feel quite tired of the discussion and the spontaneous opposition that I feel toward a funeral. A tunnel can, for example. A key to strengthening parts of the country. For example, consider the East and the West, where funeral construction is a complete key in helping with rural association, creating a powerful core, etc. A project that keeps the women in the country so that the men will remain there. Rather, they move to the capital area and follow. Then I feel that it is important that we look to the sex friendship when the country is being assessed for projects. I further remind you of an interesting investigation that indicates that the White Sea has done just that, i.e. Strengthen the position of the women in the area. [[The president calls.]] I feel that we need to talk about a positive type of soil because it's extremely important to the future Iceland community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u24	A respectable president. Once again, we are what? A senator agrees. It ended up talking about tunnels, but they're just like all other transport projects, so important. The whole body is equal between the sexes, the areas, and the rest. I agree with that. I'd love it if Iceland became like Swiss cheese from a tunnel. That'll make everyone better. Not only are tunnels equal, they're environmental. It is a massive pollution and cost to a moving company to have to drive over a high level of pagans. There is also much energy to keep these pagans open. There is great danger of accident, and there is a great deal of concern for the population in having to travel across a pagan country during the winter and so forth, so that all of this is recommended, as is the case with all other transport. Then I'd like to establish another transport program that reaches all these goals, but which we don't discuss with the transport plan because it's not in there. It is the telecommunications and the beacon that also contributes to greater equality, since this can often be done away from world headquarters. It gives you greater freedom. All transportation gives you increased freedom to farm, increasing your prospects, and that's what we want to do. I think the best way to succeed in all of this is for us to have achieved a common vision and know where to go, and the senators have only given up on deciding which road to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. That's exactly what I'd like to talk to him about. We have talked a lot, and we have attended a conference hall on a government operation program that is not yet available, of course, it has not yet appeared. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he believes that the way to which the current government has been going is enough and seems to aim to return the next spring when an invitation is due. So I wondered about the amount of money and the length of the money that comes with it if there is no more money to be added. Is the greatest competition between rural societys what it is, i.e. watching only the number of connections, not meeting the most fragile areas? We've had challenges, and we've had discussions with local authorities that this is not what has been committed on the part of the government, at least. I don't think that's how the rural communities understood it, that's done, that's what we've been through. Of course, I find that very painful. This is the Berry Fjord, the West, where it will never be profitable. I wondered, " Is there any other way to go? ' Or does the senator support our being proud of any number of connections? The best - equipped communities prepare them eagerly for this because they know that ahead is some sort of competition for who will be next, instead of looking at the situation from the ground point of view. Or, like a whisk. A senator concluded, saying that you can choose to live in a place that has minimal wood so that you can do what you want to do or learn what you want to learn.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for giving me the opportunity to continue the discussion on the light guide, which is a great concern to my heart, especially in these fragile areas. I would like to begin by saying that I do not agree with the senator's statement that there are some places that will never be profitable. This is never the case, since transportation is always an opportunity for success. They may not, but they will always have the opportunity to do so. We're seeing rural areas that have powerful fiber optics. It takes only one family on a high income to move to the country's community and do their job there and pay an answer, and then the local community gets a huge income from this one fiber - optic connection. A huge amount of money. This has happened many times. If there is going to be an increase in job structure, pay outlets, and valuables in the rural community, it's so lucrative. That's why I totally agree, and I'll never say that enough money is put on transportation. I think it'll be a good idea if it comes back many times. But we must be quite safe to enter this fiber - opticization. Technology is developing rapidly, so this five - year government program certainly takes five years, a long period of time in the technological age, with 5.5 billion still in the financial program for the next five years. That's not what we're talking about. This may be a question of how to make the most of our budget. How do we serve as most people as little money as possible? How do taxpayers'funds benefit? Then we just need to discuss how long the most fragile settlements can wait and whether we need to take some specific actions outside this way to help them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. You see, I completely agree with him that such a means of transportation can be profitable. And, of course, everything that the senator said about paying off is fine and that is true. But that may be what we're facing, and the senator knows what I am, I live in a scattered and large economy, that they can't wait many of them. Many rural societies have grown up to be unable to wait. We need to ask ourselves, " How do I make the most of my money? ' Does that have any other connections? Or is it by trusting in a settlement, that some village simply doesn't tire out, because it's our assessment of what it means to get as much money as it can. I think we can watch this from more than one point of view, i.e. not from the crowd. I know we both speak for the flight and all that. Here is a suggestion to strengthen the domestic flight. It was an proposal for senators to agree in this context and it seems that the reduction of air traffic costs has not been used. We know that our infrastructure is sad, and there is a great need for strengthening. Here is a suggestion to open a farm and place money on a wide range. Got it. A senator's priorities are more important than making this real public transportation, i.e. to focus all on lowering the crash costs? Even though money is put in here, it is also money. To look at the situation, there is nothing in the world that all this money goes into it. [[The president calls.]] We don't have everything to do with it more than the first day, I agree with it, but what's the priority in this case? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u28	A respectable president. I'd like to finish the discussion about the light guide. That plan and how the money is assigned is cooperated with the local community. All I can understand is that their will is to continue their outing route but that they also insist that special assistance be provided for the fractured settlements in order to build them up. We've taken a path that I'm not happy with how slow and how slow it goes. A senator is to be recognized by the budget board. It was said to sell, e.g. Lands in the Roft River and use the funds that the State would receive for them land into the local built - up support and put a three - part electricity and fiber - optic device. I think we need to find some paths along the other side. Then we can do both at once, which I think is important. That's what I'm gonna talk about with the domestic flight. Our main concern is to try to reduce our fare. The group of workers who produced it concluded that the price on the label was about 10% of the payload. It certainly matters, and whether our airlines would be willing to get us across to lower the shipment by 10%. But I don't think that's enough. We wanted to talk about whether these flight routes could be offered, trying to get something more for the money, the 300 million. K. which are suggested, that we need to make good use of the next few losss in finding out how to reduce the price of the cargo most. Does that have an invitation? How should this be strengthened? With the rest of the field, I thought of the private machines and the airlines opening them and firing them, that would be up to them, finding more practical ways to keep them open, find out the opportunities, and so on. Once we'd found that way, we'd see what much money we needed, but these funds are not into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u29	A respectable president. Here we will discuss the four-year transport programme for the 2015/2018 season. It is rather extraordinary to be discussing a plan again in time, but there are reasons why we are not staying here. The plan is carried out within the framework of a targeted program for 2011-2022, and the following will only be involved in this discussion, so I'm not totally related even if I don't have a permanent residence at the General Assembly. This project program is designed to do a lot of good. I'm glad to see at least a word but maybe not at a level of connection with national parishion plans and would have liked to have that discussion with the chairman of the Committee if he came to the hall. The implementation of a national application program was adopted in the last administration into a foreign model and is likely to be a very powerful rural development tool taking into account that all plans will be consistent through an application program. Sadly, we do not see a stronger connection with an application schedule. However, there may be some thought that does not appear in the Senate itself. Of course, I feel very concerned about the country's road system and is thinking about its general condition in the country. Then I'm primarily talking about highway No. 1 Because it's the back of people's travels around the country and a very important line, whether of security or of any other, I don't talk about evolution in the country. It is a disaster, of course, to see what is happening to the national road system, and unfortunately, this proposal to make a arrangement for transportation is not to be expected but the right to keep the road in disappear, much less to be improved. We all see that regularly going to land, as we hopefully do most of the people sitting at the General Assembly, it is actually dangerous to drive along the road that is close to the capital, where traffic weight is greatest. If driving in the latter part of the day, trucks are on their way to land from the capital. We need to realize that the number of tourists has increased by 33% since the last year and, if it appears, this year will likely be 1.6 million tourists, which will be added to the population of the land of 320 thousand, so it may travel through the country's plyingular system every year. Some figures I did arrange for 30,000 tourists to come to the country every day, so if we think about it and watch this blessed road system of ours, highway 1, it won't work. We must face the fact that it will not be released and held. If we don't keep the road in a goner, reputation can fall very fast, but it may not be the most important thing, but the security. I hope we have the wisdom to stand up to collect the legal, law - enforcement agencies of the Road Type of oil tax and gasoline, and to uplift it to today because it covers the billions who have not been added. It would truly remember a great deal about it, even about half of the numbers available here. Then I'd like to get to another project that has something to do with our country's founding system, and that's the Sunway. It worries me and dissatisfaction, I must say, seeing that the waterway isn't part of the proposal for Congress now proposed to be accepted. She's just thrown out on a minister's motion. I don't see it coming into the transition into the development of more of the Committee. I think that's a very big mistake, because the waterway has become a major operation to reduce the weight of traffic in the northern capital area. As I said, plans for this trip are expected to arrive 1.6 million tourists this year, and somewhere I saw an estimated 2.5 million in ten years. In addition, the population of the capital area is expected to increase substantially over the next few years, with over 300 thousand inhabitants living in the year 2040. The waterway is such a means of transportation that we need to consider it. We can't push all this number of tourists, many travelers, into the Mosfellstown settlement, and in that area. If we're talking about undergoing surgery to strengthen the root system, including by double the road through Kjalarnes, it is odd not to assume that the rock into the city is through a major footway, such as the Sunway, whether to a tunnel or a bridge, or to any other person's will to import it, but instead to direct all this traffic weight through the settlement in Mosfellstown, thus breaking the settlement. I trust it, and I hope that more of it has been overlooked. The environment and transport authorities are not going to re-route the situation and set in motion to keep this matter on alert, as it is government custody to ensure that this procedure is being carried out. This does not mean entering the synopsis proposal that the waterway is taken out because there are no ways to put it on your own. The responsibility of the state, as well as the events of the community, is high and by holding this in the motion, the case is maintained at any rate and the responsibility of the State for bringing it to its final outcome. I also wanted to discuss transport in general in the capital area, which is that my opinion may be somewhat overlooked in the suggestion, although there are certainly some points in which I can commend and, of course, will be doing so. We must realize, as mentioned earlier, that the population of the capital area will be expected to increase, that they will be 300 thousand in 2040. Of course, when the total number of tourists that most come to Reykjavík and a large number of automobiles are added, it is unacceptable that this area does not take any more into account in the Senate resolution proposal that the largest road weight in the country is in this area. We all want to remain inhabited in the country in general and that it is more prosperous, but we must recognize that without a fine capital, there will also be no powerful settlements and vice versa. Actually, this is not to be the question of competition between capital and national. It's one transport system. If we think of the greater weight in the capital area, this must be taken into account in government funds. Recently, an agreement has been made between all rural communities in the capital area. It gives us the basis for a regional structure for the capital area, which lasts from 2015/240 and, as the name indicates, an organization for all the rural areas in the capital area. A traffic forecast in connection with the main organization of the capital area is presented in the VSO report that it was involved in the traffic system. until all studies indicate that the change in travel habits is considerably more important than increasing progress in reducing traffic pressures. The regional structure of the capital area is expected to require considerable change in transport practices in this area. Changes in travel habits are based on the criteria. Is total business estimated at about 5.8 miles per day and unchanged increases in traffic pressure to 2040 will be about 54%. Changing travel habits reduces traffic growth, allowing only 36% increase in stress since 2012. Then we're talking about arriving on improved public transportation and more bicycle trails or other options besides private cars. Of course, it is very special to be traveling in the suburbs of the city or to start in and out of the city part of the afternoon and to watch a car for a one - person vehicle waiting to get ahead while the engine moves. It's totally unacceptable, and we're just gonna have to keep our commitments in the Paris Convention to make a big difference. Happily, this work is well under way, and it is a real pleasure to see in this Parliamentary arrangement for transport and transport projects to give significant support to public transport in the capital area. Of course, to speed up this process further, you might spit more. It's nice to report that among rural areas in the capital area, it has been achieved to put first in the transport systems of the so - called city line, which effectively link all the rural areas in the region and ensure that people reach between areas in a rapid and safe way. It is thought that there will be a powerful link between all major rural communities and that everyone will benefit from it because there is no special contest in Reykjavík to grow much more than other rural communities in the vicinity of the city. How wise it is to view it as a unit! Of course, it is the subject of another speech, Mr. President, whether it is proper to start uniting the communities in the capital area. But we leave it to each other now. This is a fine job that is worth supporting and supporting. A recent report was published by the traveling representatives of all units to cities east of the sea and west. This is likely to result in watching a vehicle system rather than a bullet - train system. A survey of its funding is being done in cooperation with state, rural society and private people, and it seems very quickly to me that a private person will benefit from that idea and find access to it. The fact is that the areas that will be well connected to this city line will grow rapidly and thrive and grow to a great deal of value once the city line has arrived. How wise it is, then, that investors who will build up in these areas contribute to the construction costs. This model is known elsewhere, and it is well to be recorded in this country too, or at least considered. A respectable president. Then I'm about to finish my story. But I want to finally talk about what I think is important when looking up the future in the building of the capital area, that is, the watermy airport. I am strongly following it and a spokesman for the removal of the airport from the Watermelon and for the development of a powerful country - benefit zone, where there will be a university knowledge center that will be either on either side of the airport where it is right now. In addition, I feel very important to the country that it will receive much easier and more frequent transportation between this part of the country and its own territory. It's not a question, and it's a good thing to see that Iceland's airline is about to set sail between the Keflavors and the Akureyris, but I think it's a lot more reasonable to watch this in a larger picture because for most of the people in the country, I don't talk about it if there's an express train between Reykjavík and Cheflavour, or Reykjavík and Hakoshun, the time that takes to travel there will be between a very short and a very low percentage of the country's total travel period. Then there is also the subject of another Mass and another talk to discuss fare and price of fare within the country, which, unfortunately, is far too high, so that ordinary people can no longer use this option. Of course, there are tourists who carry the domestic flight upstairs. I don't think there's a question about it: It would be a very big injection for every part of the country to make a direct connection to the Keflavour Airport, i.e. for tourism in that area. There is also another matter that I have often wondered about, a respectable president, and I have not found a place in the conferences. It's about the safety of the airport in the middle of the city, and then I'm thinking of drawings. Last summer when we were watching football, celebrating the national team, protesting at the East Field, or whatever, many had drawings on the air that are directly in the flight line of planes that enter the landing at the Watermelon airport. You don't have to search the Internet for very long to see that there's an ever - increasing problem and it's very real. We may not have to go through any devastating ideas or descriptions of what might happen, but that is a reality. It is very common for large meetings to be held in the middle of the city of Reykjavík to be drawn in the air. I don't think we should go anywhere further with that description. There are so many things that tell me that it doesn't make sense any longer to keep the airport in the Hydromosis. This is a very important area in which knowledge industry can be built and enhanced, the knowledge industry in progress for the whole country's competitiveness with other countries. I speak from this chair, but I have lived in the country, and I have served many times in the country. I don't feel that there is evidence in this case, a respectable president, that these few trips, where time is important, should determine that the national national national airport is located in the middle, not in an area where all evidence suggests that it is more reasonable to have a airport.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u30	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. We talked only about the capital city yesterday, and most of the people who participated in a conversation about the transport program talked about the country. So it was nice to have a very nice tour and ideas about the capital because it really is bursting in the road system, no matter if we look closer at 101 and 105, or what it is, or on the portals out of the city, they're broken, of course. This is suggested in the future vision of the governments, which has been proposed in a transport program of 2,226, to work with private partners. More major projects have been arranged by the secretary of these cases. It's interesting to hear what you're talking about. A senator feels that way. I wanted to catch the ball where it ended up about the airport. We started that conversation only yesterday, but I'm totally agreeing with her about the drawings that are here on the flight. It has been proposed how to treat them in this country. There is a proposal from the chairman of the left-green Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, who has not been paid back. But if we're only thinking about moving the airport, the international flight, and the link below when it comes to moving the airport, we'll think it's a tough one. When it comes to health care, does a member of the body feel that it can be met with great safety and the time frames that have been spoken about by moving the international flight south to Cheflavík? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the answer. I don't know how many trips a year are going, where time is everything. I don't treat it lightly, and I have experience with it when I lived east on the beach. I'm not quite wet behind my ears in that stuff. But is that not an assignment that we specifically resolve and take out parentheses in the conversation about the location of the airport, that remains a matter? Today, there are helicopters at the City Hospital, so people can be moved in this way. So you might think of moving people with helicopters from Kefavík. Now I'm not speaking out of the knowledge that I know, but we know that we can land at the City Hospital so I can see that the problem with medical flights can be solved exceptionally. Of course, it's a matter that calls for a special scale. The big picture is that it's nationally practical, it's practical for the development of society that we move the airport from this area. I hear the whale test is growing stronger in the location of the national airport. It may be wise not to take him as far south as Chefavík. However, I feel quite strongly that there is a direct link to international flight, apart from the fact that there are all available facilities. Thus, as in Whale test, there is no need for expensive investments. But I'll tell them in advance that I haven't gone deep into the Whale test. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u32	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I think of it when we talk about Whalesun, because we've been dealing with Bakka and environmental food and the new lava and so forth, that I would have liked to see that discussion begin when it comes to the Washingham. Is this a key possibility in the light of a discussion about the environmental factor or not? I don't know. But at least I'd be interested that it would be taken along, so at least we didn't get into some kind of trouble like we're in now with the north case. I don't remember the exact number, but I think there's about an eighth hundred medical flights by the Gest, but it's 7th hundred at Mybean. At least it's happened enough times, we can say, time is important in that subject. But I feel like we have to finish it together. I'm willing to look at this idea. There are, however, every government in this country, and I feel there are so many things that need to hang out. Much of the people go to Reykjavík for public service or medical services and travel by domestic flight. That service will not necessarily be granted to the hospital at Keflavík. Then there's this with the time. It is a decision to build here, and although it would be built somewhere else, it must be built. Hv. A senator came up with new ideas about transportation, perhaps not so much as a train, but some other transportation within the capital or between the capital and the Cheflavík. The decisions need to hang out. I don't feel like we can say, "We're moving this thing, and then maybe it's coming, or it's not." I think the projects have to be connected.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the answer. So I pick up what she mentioned last time and look at it in context, it's so fun that it's happening right now at the scene of a local community in the capital area that there's a solid agreement to begin planning on a so-called city line. That's an amazing step. Whether it becomes a bullet train or a coach does not matter how to export, it is just a matter of money or cost, and so on. The idea is this: The whole area as a whole has been fully developed in terms of transportation. Of course, if that is the case, we have reached the outer edge of the Hashásun. I can't quite remember the numbers. It is about so that it will take only 20 minutes to move between these rural partners or on this city line. It may take you 20 minutes to leave the southern limit of Hafnarfjörður and into the centre of Reykjavík, at a maximum, even shorter time. That's important. Of course, we look at the airport in that context. We are in direct competition with other countries about people and businesses. We're about to build up here for the future. The one standing here is working very hard on innovation companies in the country. I love to see how much is happening in that area. I will become increasingly aware of the reality that we must support people who want to live here for the future, create opportunities and conditions here on the land. Young people today want to be in innovation, whether in tourism, software, pharmaceutical technology, or anything like it. It is my conviction that a scientific village in Watermelon is absolutely necessary for those who want to survive the innovation of the country by the University of Iceland and the University of Reykjavík on either side of the current airport. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u34	V.E.G. President. This discussion of the four - year transport program began last week, and hopefully it will be the end of those discussions soon. Now it's not that I'm complaining that Congress officials handle transportation. This is a welcome opportunity to discuss the important matter party and it is important that the work of the environment and transport committee has, in principle, been quite consistent with the current focus. However, the period of birth was somewhat prolonged before the Commission's discussion ended, but the result was that a greater proportion of the committee felt that they could produce adjustments that for the next two years may involve an increase of 11 billion. to the jury, which is about a 10% rise. Although waiting in some respects, she made it acceptable to spend considerably more money on these matters than was originally assumed when the Senate arrangement was proposed on the part of the government, so it was now worth nothing. Of course, when I talk about solidarity on the committee, it's like all priorities and individual tasks. I would say that in this case, in this case, there was no profound disagreement on the subject. Rather, it was the project under emphasised on general support, both the original and the changing aspects. While I would also like to say regarding the changes made by my section that it is certainly also discussing positive works and reasonable in most cases, I suppose, but in the proposal of the greater part it was not considered proper to prioritise precisely the way the smaller object stressed. While adjustments may still be made during a discussion, I believe that lines have been clarified in all the fundamental aspects. Others snarl. public speakers have considered the important Bible points to be kept in mind when such a plan is set aside on the part of the council. Of course, the aim of transport or transport plans is to ensure various aspects. It is a means of ensuring easy transport between rural areas, both based on localities, employment reasons, and other such views. A priority order must also be taken into account by transport safety and innovation options, changes that have occurred in the way of employment, traffic, and pressures on the individual aspects of the system. Although I can agree with most of the people mentioned here that it would have been desirable to have been able to spend more money on the projects involved here, I think that the emphasis on the transport process and the changes made are in harmony with these views. They are trying to ensure easy transport between communities. They're trying to improve transport, since it's important to work secularly and professional employers. There is also effort to promote increased traffic security, an aspect that can be least forgotten in this regard. When we discuss transport funding, we have often seen the proportion of GDP, one of the criteria. As revealed in a fine chart published by the less part of the environment and transport committees, it is seen that after a set of 2008 levels, evolution has continued to go downhill. However, we see the column going back up on 2015 and this motion reaches the point, speaking of an even further increase, though we do not reach the height that was here around a crash. Of course, when the measured amount of GDP is used, it should be remembered that it is not unique, it does not indicate a dollar or a penny. During the past few years, gross growth in agricultural production has increased greatly. That is why the same proportion of GDP returns more money to these projects than was five, six years ago. This does not mean that there is enough work to be done, and of course I agree with what others have pointed out. On the one hand, the growing number of foreign tourists has especially increased the pressures on the road system, quite enormous. There are a lot more cars and more tourists on the roads than there were a few years ago. This requires further implementation. This also calls for more attention to factors such as security. The other factor, of course, needs to be considered, is that during the years following a collapse, the brakes were somewhat improved in the area of road construction. While the table on donations as a proportion of GDP does not reflect it well enough, we need to see that in those days GDP was significantly reduced, so that at that time, all projects were slowed down and saved, people were saving on new ones, and so on. I'm not going to criticize it, but there were many discussions at that time that by delaying maintenance projects and such activities, they were not creating a measure of savings but simply postponing expenses. The problem with the road system is natural in many cases, that by postponing projects, the repairs or reforms may become even more costly when the time comes for one to go into it. To some extent, in our proposal for environmental and transport committees, we tried to cope with this by raising funds for maintenance and implementing such projects. I have no doubt that they can be done better, but there is a considerable increase in the amount of money to be spent on them. As a member of the capital area, I stress that the maintenance of the roads in this area under the oversight of the road is also necessary and that they can withstand the pressures. If I consider other factors that we introduce to the changing laws, then there is no need to trace any particular projects. I think that the projects listed in our making of changes have been quite a solid solid solid solidarity. There are always debates about the order of such projects, but this was a conclusion based on discussions and built, including some of them. Very much of the focus of the local community. We've accessed projects that were thought to be needed to improve considerably, through road connections and local roads. Similarly, we contribute additional contributions to bridges, which, of course, are a fairly special project, but we have seen that the number of single bridges on which security is based is extremely important. Despite the challenges ahead of us, it can be said that with the suggestions we have here, we are taking a considerable step in the right direction. Last speaker, w. paritaprevir Anna Guðjónsdóttir Gudjonsdótttir, left the capital area. There are some things I agree with her, e.g. The emphasis on the Sunway. Of course, it has been a problem, so it is accepted, for all governments, both in the realm and in the country of Reykjavík, what to do with them. I remember that about ten years ago the problems were more associated with organizational matters than with financial resources. Now the situation may be somewhat altered, but I strongly agree with what. A senator that it is important to make this matter more difficult. V.E.G. The minister of the inside has shown this interest, but we need to see more decisive suggestions than we already have to make so that it can be pushed forward. It's like whisk. A senator pointed to the tremendous importance of those living in the capital and north of the capital area, but it is also of enormous importance to much of the country, since it is a vital link between practically all of North and Western countries and the capital. In this respect it's not a narrow-scale ideal, so you allow yourself to put it that way, but it's an enormously important transport matter for the whole country. I make it clear that there is no doubt in my mind that if this project can be done in good cooperation with the state and city, it is both positive and good, but at the same time I believe that it is in some way, perhaps the same way as it was done in Halfland tunnels, to connect a private member of this project. I believe that is really a prerequisite for the possibility that much sooner can be started. I have no doubt that this is a project that would be successful in a short or relatively short period of time in a historical context. Hv. A senator also mentioned public transportation in the capital area. It is true that since 2012 the agreement between state and rural society in the capital area has been in force for the State to be involved in the cost of public transportation in the capital area. Of course, there was a prerequisite for that contract at the time that it was not a major project for others, such as the mismanagement of the molds or the likes of it in this area. I believed at the time that my rural society had, I was afraid to resign because this billion a year was perhaps not a large sum compared with a number of projects that I thought would be needed in this area. But let it be. This is a contract in force. Of course, it will be interesting when a little further into the contract to appreciate how he has fulfilled his goals. I think that everyone can say that a larger proportion of the traffic in the capital area is desirable into public transportation. From a number of different viewpoints, I think it's desirable. But I think if we're going to be realistic, we'll have to continue to assume that a very large proportion of traffic in the capital area and in other parts of the country will also be driving private cars. The transport system will have to be fixed, or the transport system will have to be stopped too. Finally, the highest. President, for a few words, I don't agree with the airport. paritaprevir Anna Margrét, Guðjónsdóttir's daughter, was on the airport in the Radial. I think he'll stay in the same place for quite some time and think that he's going to be unrealistic to move him. Personally, I don't believe in ideas about airports in Whalesun, whether it would be the national airport, the international airport, or both. Simply put, I think that we are close to the Chefavik International Airport where it begins to become a question of whether it is wise to build up a new airport with all its features in that area when the route to Chefavík has become brief. However, there is also an interesting perspective in the past showing how such projects, which would be of an enormous magnitude, would be estimated from environmental issues, even if all other factors were to be in place, profitable calculations were to occur. I wondered how the result would be in the community of building huge monuments, not just airports, airports, parking lots, road blocks, and other things that would follow in this place, in the lava that is being run on today in a geological sense, and people are making trouble out of much smaller projects in the north today. Would anyone agree to such an operation? I'll let me doubt it. But whatever happens after some decades of airports and other connections between capitals and land, I think it's at least It is clear that the airport will remain a more predictable future in the Hydromosis. I think that no matter how a situation will be in those matters, Reykjavíkurburg will not be able to organize the airport completely in the direction of a greater part of the assembly and nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A recent Birgir of a Ármannsson who is also a member of the Environment and Transport Committee for his careful review of the issues discussed here. I was especially happy to hear that he agrees with me about the Dizziness Way. Of course, as he correctly mentioned, this is not a matter of a ballot, but it is a question of one of the most important links between capital areas and Western countries, i.e. between the largest core of the country at Eyjafjord and the southwestern corner. In view of his words, a respectable president, I trust and hope that he will see to it that the poolway has been issued in the Senate resolution proposal to be put back in before the case comes for release, because, like, the case is settled. A senator rightly mentioned them the need to keep this matter in focus. This is likely to happen if it is dropped out of transport planning or transportation funding, it will land between a cane and a door in a transport discussion. I agree with what. A senator thinks it's wise to look at the benefits, and I think it would be wise to put the Sunway on some of its own. Then how it is implemented or how the fee, or collection, is made up of such a matter and a solution, but there is, of course, a registration and the like. I think it's very important to keep this matter up, make sure it's inside a transport programme, and make sure the Ministry continues the case, and follow up the events of searching for interested investors because as presented in the case. At that time, this was the longest of the problems involving organizational matters, but it is no longer the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u36	V.E.G. President. Regarding the Dizziness Course, it is assumed to be in on a long-term schedule. I also think it is in the range that is now working on, a so - called white book, in the field of transportation used by the Minister of State, so I don't know if a particular feature of this strategy is going to change much of it. However, I think it is important for us who are interested in this matter to keep up with the discussion so that both the minister of this class and the one who may accept the election will continue working on it so that it can be accomplished. I'm having a bit of fun recalling sometimes that it's not quarter of a year since I first saw the suggestion that the Sunway and its location, the Committee on the Environment Committee of Reykjavík, in 1990. Then they imagined that it would be an assignment that would be carried out within a few years. Twenty - five years have passed. I hope 25 years from now we have to think about someone else's work, about everything else, about how it's done, and how far behind it, but we're not going to have it on the drawing table yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. Birgir He's the Ármannsson to his word. I'm going to pick up the thread where he laid him down in his speech and says that after 25 years we don't have to think about Sunwater. Then I also hope and trust that in 25 years, we will have stopped discussing the airfield in Reykjavík. I agree with his doubts about setting up a new airport in Washasse simply because my reason tells me that it is far wiser to use the investment that is already in the south on the Middle East. With increasing and improved transportation, better cars, better roads, better technology, and so forth, the distance between Reykjavík and Cheflavík is always getting shorter. I don't see the evidence in it, I haven't seen the light in the idea of picking up or moving the airport from Central Island and south to Wash test, except that I don't think that after a long future, perhaps within 25 years or less. paritaprevir The Birgir Ármannsson mentioned earlier, would probably have developed a long way back to the point where we needed to take up the case again. However, transporting the airport from the Watermelon is extremely economically practical. In our conversations, why? paritaprevir In the past, Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdóttirs discussed what facts of opinion needed to be considered before making or working further on that decision. Of course, it is important to consider how many trips per year are a medical flight, where time is important. Other than that, I feel responsible for the high Council in this matter, i.e. to ensure the future of this country and the nation that young people want to live here must be an important reason to discuss the location of this airport on the one of the most valuable countries in the country, although it may not be what counts but that we have to start building jobs that take into account that there are very well educated people who want to contribute and support our country's innovation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u38	V.E.G. President. In itself, I do not disagree with this emphasis. Senator. However, I do not believe that the structure of a person called an education village in the Watermelon is a strong reason to move the airport because I believe it is easier to get such a core, such a cluster, to move it, or to build it somewhere else than a storm at this place, whether it was out in Granda or elsewhere. Of course, while the connection at the university was important, I think it's easier to move to such an operation than one of the airports. However, in general, I wanted to say that when we approach the airport, we need to keep in mind that it is of course important from an emergency flight, a medical flight, and such. But it is also an important feature in the public transport system if we can say so in a country where there is no train systems or other such systems that serve a comparable role elsewhere. Despite the passage in and out of the city or between the capital area and the individual nucleus of the country, the period of travel is shrinking, and so on, I think there are certain places where the flight will remain important in the sense of public transport. I mention Egls, Cape, Western Islands, Icefjords, and probably for years also in Akureyri. We need to think about that too, depending on how the airport plays a role in linking capitals and urban areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u39	V.E.G. President. First, I'm going to kiss your ass. A senator for a very good talk, extensive and good, on transportation. I always rejoice when the members of the city of Reykjavík, U.S.A., discuss transportation with such a degree of knowledge and insight. Whether it is carried out in the capital area or in the country area, a senator does so. I'm also going to say, as I've said to others, that I think the committee is a very handsome figure. A member of the Environment and Transport Committee has taken up the existing transport programme, which was a transport plan for little or nothing, and improved it in the activities of the General Assembly. The committee shows independence, courage, and courage, and making adjustments just as the lesser part does, and I hope that some consideration will be taken to them. This is where I understand, for about 6 billion each year, 2017/018. I think it's a big challenge. I always feel that there should be such initiatives, as is here, when there's a poor recommendation from the European Commission. This is what's been going on with the Generals, especially in recent years, and it's an example. For that, thanks to you. paritaprevir The Birgir son of an Ármannsson like any other. I also say, there are a lot of good things in my suggestion that I hope will come about. In this counter, I'm going to talk about what I didn't quite agree with. A senator about, i.e. The work during the troubled years after the collapse of the bank I have a chart from the Road Building showing that 2007, 2008, 2009, and 2010 are a record year in construction. Then I'm just taking the money at this time. It really helped to keep these funds to go to the big, massive projects that were then being carried out. I allow myself to say, a respectable president, that at that time Iceland met, of course, because there was a need for employment to be made through profitless and practical work that was making very secure. A senator discussed the matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm like, "We're what?" A senator did not agree on what was done there?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u40	V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna argue about this, either. paritaprevir The Kristján Möller, or poles, or cables. But we remember from the time when this was not a struggle. Hv. A senator then a minister of transportation had to work to maintain this stage. It was, if I remember correctly, in 2011 that started to relax, and then we remember talking about that maybe it would be easier to stop new projects rather than resigning employees at institutions or such. It's always a tough choice. I think that those of us who participated in discussions about these matters at this time have helped us to realize that by reducing projects during this time, we would not be achieving any lasting savings but would only contribute to the future costs. I can personally believe that we may have been fully able to increase again, but we need to be aware that not only in transport but in all areas of public expenses, there has been great pressure on us to add to our contributions and to the balance of controlling it to avoid spending on material matters or to avoid self - sufficiency. That's what we can do. paritaprevir Möller agrees that it is very positive and good when we see space to increase in this area without affecting stability or adversely affecting the state's status.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer, we agree over there. At that time, many new projects were performed in areas that had a road system, such as those in the capital area 60 years ago. Actually, it was a measure of maintenance too. New constructions, such as those on 60 miles [60 km] to weapons ground, need no maintenance in the coming years, even decades, but much maintenance was needed during the road as a single-burn, hollow, rock on all sides, etc. That's all there is to it. We agree on these factors. It was really given in. This was done right away in 2007 by the administration of independents and members of the United States. In a talk in the East on June 17, a large cutout was announced in trio's records, as well as said, by the time force. Prime Minister Geir Haardeur, needs to be given in other areas. The next day, if I recall correctly, the current price was 6 billion. conducted at this time. I'm just going to go back to what I agreed with. In the future, there is a senator talking about Reykjavíkur Airport and the center of national flight. I strongly believe that the course should be where it is, but I have often said that members who should be able to discuss a certain process that will be made changes. The Rackham Commission's conclusions were, to some extent, disappointing to me except in that respect, to the fact that Hólmshef is no longer discussed. It's just out of the table. That didn't surprise me. But it's called a chance just a short time from here, Whaleshaft. I agree with that. Senator I don't think we're going to get that lava out to live in the airport, but I think that's an insane idea. Either the centre of the national flight will remain at the Reykjavík airport for 10 to 20 years, or Guð knows what the trend will be. If the course is laid by opposers, the international flight to Cheflavík will be moved to Chefavík, where it will slowly and slowly die because of its length of travel and the fall of shorter flights. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. This is my view of where we should have a future national airport and the centre of an internal flight. I know we're at the highest. The President agrees completely on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u42	V.E.G. President. I come up here to discuss a transport plan. She has been very busy here for the past few days, and much longer than they anticipated, and has been used to running the case until the government groups decide how they're going to complete this council. That has even been true. that large numbers of people in the community wait with the duck in their throat for the approval of the plan and for good reason, since transportation is broken in many places in Iceland. Clearly, we need to take action if we are to be at peace with the environment. Many have had previous talks, including I, in discussions about transport, the plan is somehow built up, so the projects are stratified according to votes, and it seems to be an ideal competition for who is the most diligent to obtain money and to make changes in his terms. I don't think it's a good thing. Many woes have been presented in this matter. Senators that we need to change this and have to set our priorities and work out a different transport plan. I really hope that it will be done over the years, and we will start setting priorities for where the need is most important. Now, naturally, all need is in their own jurisdiction and territory. It's not unusual. I am from the Southern District, and there has been a tremendous increase in traffic in recent years, especially as a result of the growing number of tourists in the country. You just feel it in your own eyes when you drive through the district that there's a lot of traffic there. The communities in the South and the road system are under extreme pressure. Civil authorities and those living in the region tell me that they are deeply concerned about how things have been developing and that they have the small financial resources set up in transport and road patterns in their districts and areas. There is no need to be buried in a grave, 8 of the most popular resorts in the country are in the South Sea. There, almost every tourist comes to the country. He is traveling with buses and cars, and these systems are under enormous pressure. Although there are many projects being made in this program, such as in the Bishop's field and on the road to Geysi, it is not nearly enough, telling me men, and the need for much more money in the coming years. Hopefully, this will be done and would have had to be done now. But this is the situation. There's no more money. Yet, this transport program is now making a considerable amount of money, which is very good. A board of directors is to be commended for their work in these matters, for getting more money on these matters. Last year, 16 people died driving in Iceland. That country had increased by about 12 since the previous year, which is an enormous increase, and it tells us that there is a tremendous increase in driving in the country. Much of the accidents that have occurred in traffic are because of foreign tourists who drive on such narrow roads, who like our beautiful land and stop in roads. The last fatal accident in the South was because people were walking over a road to look at something interesting, which required the people to cross the road. It is important that we consider all of this together in a larger context and make a very long - term plan. But it is clear that in the coming years, and preferably immediately, a lot more money must be spent on transportation. These are the most important concerns for the country's settlements, i.e. It's good transportation and communication. In my district, there are more than 20 bridges one side of the Hornfjord. There are 39 bridges on highway 1 all over the country. That's one of the things you really need to fix. Only in the last year, a fatal accident in the Southern District was caused by a single - beamed bridge. It is of utmost importance to do away with them in the coming years, for if you keep looking at the number of tourists, something will go on. I myself live in Grindavík. Now, a very important and excellent performance is being carried out at the corner of the Blue Deck. It was designed to increase traffic security there. In the current program to turn money into changes in the streets of Cyrúsavík, which is extremely important, for we who drive this road every morning realized how devastating the trap of accidents and the dangerous corners there are. It's good not to make up for it. So I'll just continue to talk about my district, because it's a ballot, then a group of south people were set up on Smokejanes, after a fatal accident on the Smokey Way, referred to in the commission that moved the change to the Hafnar Road. It is heavier than tears to think that accidents must occur, since a young woman lost her husband and three children lost her father in order to do something about these matters. Although it was during the discussion for a long time to make changes in the Hafnarfjörður, that did not happen until you died. This often seems to be the story of our Icelanders that very little is done and little is changed into such a thing until something terrible happens. This tragic accident in July. That's it! That's it! That's it! That's it! That's it! That's it! was formed. As mentioned earlier in the Senate talks, how tragic it is that a community like Smokenesville and Southnes needs to make changes in these matters! This organization was formed with great enthusiasm, and the battles of these people and the enthusiasm of fire made it possible for money and funds to add two laps to the Main Street and the airport, which will completely change circumstances. Likewise in the years that follow, Hafnar Road will be changed. They have to go through organizational adjustments until it's done, but there's gonna be a lot more security there. It has also been said that pedestrian traffic is high above the River Road from Ásbrön and the old defensive area that is now flourishing. In order to go to a supermarket there, people are crossing the Smokey Way at the Fitjar, which creates a natural grave danger. There's something that needs to be fixed in the years ahead. There's a huge round on the Smokey Way and up to the terminal. I worked at the airport for a year and a half, driving around there every day. It is two different things to drive there now or then, the traffic is huge from the Fits to the air station, where there is a single road. It's quite clear that there's a plan, 2019◯022, if I remember correctly, to finish the road up there, which is extremely important as so many other things. Of course, everything is important in transportation. Unfortunately, it seems that we have been completely involved in the growth of tourists, that we were somehow not ready for all of that, and unfortunately we need to work on meeting them. I hope that the council that takes up the post-election operation and the government that can achieve great ambition in this. Of course, we need to make a living in order to meet these costs, and this is a big cost, and we have to make some money somehow. I have often talked about it in the public discourse that during the last term, the government put forth a very ambitious investment plan that even turned. for transportation. I can also mention that, although I am a council member for the Southern District, there has been extensive road repairs in my youth, which is armed with weapons. The road there has completely changed transport through that region. He's made a lot of changes for a weapons farm. You only see how one project can have a tremendously positive effect on people in these areas. I also mention the South Coast Road, which came to last term and was finished. He has also had tremendous good results, and traffic has increased over him each year. He's proved himself perfectly to be an excellent addition to the national road system. Still, somehow we need to change how we plan for transportation. We have plenty of people who are very close to traffic safety. I'm going to name Ólafur Guðmundsson. I would have wanted to make him the head of the government's traffic security, since few people have more knowledge and knowledge of these matters. I have attended a meeting in the district, where he has been giving transportation talks. It is a pleasure to listen to people who have much knowledge and experience in this area, and I know that he has had his hand in making this transport program and has given good advice. But transportation is a major part of society today. Their share has increased. We need to work hard to fix them. I met with the South American government last week. They are not greatly disturbed by the new transport program and feel the need to do much more. They said that we did not realize that, i.e. We here at the legislation and the council of this nation, how important these matters were in their district or in my district of the South. Not only are there huge numbers of tourists on buses and private cars driving the area but there are also excessive heavy transports. Fish transports from the East and the vice versa are enormous. I've only heard of this from Grindavik because the big lineboats are going east to land at a certain time of year to catch and then transport the fish to the south in Gravitík on large trucks. The effect is that the road system is slow and biting when there is such an overwhelming increase in transport. You often wonder if the good old beach cruises would not have been fine by now to lighten the highways. It's a different story, but I'm sure it's all right to discuss in the near future if there's something you can do about increasing sea transport, since they have a huge impact on the road system. I drove around the country for the summer, and unfortunately, our roads are in very bad conditions, although there are certainly sections where the situation is very good, but better if it's done. So I welcome a new transport plan, even though it is two years in advance. It's a little strange to be accepting a transport plan from 2014 or 2015, but it's another story. We've got this paper in our hands and this suggestion that we have to celebrate. There are many benefits. Money and funding are being provided for very necessary projects, although much of the need is being made for new projects and maintenance. I understand that according to the road manager, it takes about 11 billion a year just to keep the missing in terms of maintenance. We're putting it on eight now. It's 3 billion short just to keep it gone. It tells us how much is really missing so that we can be content with a transportation program. Mr. President. Finally, I would like to say that I hope, once again stressing that the transport program will be carried out in broad consultations with all stakeholders in which everything is taken and put first, we will prioritize, according to where the need is most important. It is also difficult because areas such as southern Western and other sites have been removed for years and decades, and people in those areas are long gone for some improvements. As I mentioned earlier, I also especially rejoice that money is being put on the road in my area south of here, and safety is increasing on the road from Fits to air station. There was a lot to say to the group I mentioned earlier, stop, here, and no further! Under the hand of Ísak, son of Ernir, Kristinsson of Christian, Guðbergur, son of Bergsson, and Margrét Sanders, and others. I don't even think that if they hadn't stepped into the discussion so easily and said that it was no longer possible that nothing would have been done in these cases despite the tragic deaths that occurred there. It was a direct democracy, showing that the people can have a powerful influence if they want to and fight for their battles. They all have to thank you for a great fight and for taking us senators on the carpet and for us to realize that this is no longer the case. We would have to agree to improve these matters before there are even more and more serious accidents - and worse accidents, they can hardly be worse than death accidents - but more accidents and even fatal accidents are there, for one road accident is too much. It costs us enormously, not just the extra money when someone dies, but the grief and loss of the little communities in Iceland, such as the Garden of this case, when people die at the best of their age. That's all. I'm glad this proposal has come forth and we accept it here at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking you. A senator for the speech. Although he may not have traveled far and wide throughout the country, he focused on the South and especially on the Smokey Peninsula. Today, there have been ideas of trying to establish a proper bullet train or a faster public transportation between Keflavík and Reykjavík, or capital area. I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether he sees it as a possible solution to make traffic security more secure, tries to control this population more effectively into public transport in this area. If we have fewer cars, we naturally have fewer options for road accidents, for cars to land together, and so on. Also, I'd like to ask you which one. A senator would not miss a more comprehensive plan for bicycling across the country. I know there's a bicycle racer organization here in Iceland that's been trying to get a bicycle track just on the Smokenes Peninsula, the southern part of a Smokey Peninsula, between Cheflavík and the village crew, and whether it wouldn't be a good farm for both tourists and outdoors and other things in this area, it's going to be quite beautiful over there. I know why. Is there anything more in the case of a senator as he is now from this area?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I got a lot of talk about the Smokey Man, and then I got a bit nervous. A senator started talking about public transportation and even flying, didn't mention it, but she mentioned the train we're talking about, and then she means from the Southes and into Reykjavík, and I turned on the bulb, and I forgot to talk about the flight. But maybe you don't want to go into the internal plane, the land mine area, which is a very delicate subject. I think a train would be a great transportation trip from the airport or South Falls into Reykjavík, but it's enormously expensive. This has been calculated, and it has been in the discussion for the past few years, and perhaps it is the future for us to do it this way. I'm not gonna talk about it in the event that the international flight would be moved to Keflavík, which I myself thought was not too bad. I think that would be a great solution to domestic flights. But not everyone agrees with me. That's how it is, and we need to figure it out. Public transportation, of course, we're supposed to promote it a lot. I heard it last week when I was attending a teenage conference in Puppyville that the main issue of youth councils in the South was the public transportation, the bus, being able to get between the day and the other. But it's enormously expensive. In fact, it was a contract made during the last term if I recall correctly that the national community would care for public transportation, they actually do, but the most extended legs were taken out. It is extremely difficult to stay out of public transportation when the best bites and cattle are taken off, so there is nothing left for the others. But we need to promote public transportation very much. It's perfectly clear that it's called for. As far as bicycle riding paths are concerned, that's just a great idea. Now they're making a race path from Grindavik up to Stapa. This will make a difference, since bicycling is always picking up the weather in Iceland, even though the weather may not be quite ready. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u45	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. That's right, public transportation's cost. Expenditures are something I think we don't always have to be so scared of. It also costs to run a car. It's very expensive for us to have a lot of cars in traffic. It's not very environmental, and it just isn't the future. It seems that everyone agrees on what has been doing in the future, that public transportation is really the only solution to proper respect for both the money, the overall interest, and, of course, nature. I find that very interesting. A senator mentioned this young conference at Puppy Hall, where young people were asking for better public transportation. But they said, "Yes, but it is so expensive." But isn't that okay? Is it not all right for us to try to ensure a measure of freedom when it comes to moving between areas, that they exist? It's worth it. In general, this is also about staying on these territories, if people don't want to live there, especially young people, because they don't want to live there, because they are so hard to get to school, hard to get into time, difficult to go and see their friends. Is running public transportation not part of the cost of being in a community? Don't you think it's supposed to be part of the network? A good public transportation? I've never understood why it's not mystiques, or something like that, so why does it always have to be so nice and so expensive? There are other countries that achieve better public transportation than we do. Why can we not imitate them?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u46	V.E.G. President. I can totally agree with that. Of course, you want to see more transport in Iceland. Yet, one thing must be considered, we do not live under conditions similar to those of other nations, which means that we must have much more powerful tools and tools to travel. During this disputed youth conference at Puppy Stadium the other day, it was true of these young people that they put much emphasis on public transportation. However, the map over the term will cost you a $90 scale. K. That's a little bit of money for young people. Then, when we started discussing this more, students only use public transportation until they receive a car test. In that case, it is far less expensive for them to spend time in the same car, alone on the car, and five in the car. It's much cheaper. In Iceland, there's been a natural car policy for years, a private car policy. Everyone's driving, and maybe it's not weird. Our distances are long, and some men are not sitting on buses or on bus but want to be on a car. We can see what traffic is in Reykjavík in the morning, and in certain times of stress, it's huge and more often than it's not one in the car. But that must be our goal in the coming years as we grow to advance public transportation. For example, during the last term when this contract was made between the state and part of the country, Cheflútan was inside the movement of passengers from Cheflavour Airport to Reykjavík. If the Southnes Union had been allowed to run that bus, but the 2013 Minister of Internal Affairs took it back, it would have paid off any other transportation in the area. It was even said that it could have paid down the loss on public transportation at the EI, which was about 28 million that year. It's always a question of how we should do this. Private companies are very strong at pushing this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u47	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I'm thinking about just going on over there, it's such an interesting conversation and maybe touching all these surfaces we want to talk about, and the senator talked himself earlier, that's the traffic security. I now drive a lot, as I know that the senator does, although we may not want to speak much for the private car policy but rather, more precisely, an increase in public transportation that I think is the vision of the future. So I wake up from one to the other, it's this thing with the young people, that they're actually using only public transportation until they get a license, of course, part of that thought we've been raised. As soon as the public transportation becomes a part of the cool watch, if you can turn it off, they'll be on top. I feel like we're moving that way, i.e. Our younger people. Especially when they've lived abroad, they've come from high school and come to college and they've lived abroad, it's a lot of time. But then we always find this wall so different from our public transportation, which, of course, happens in larger cities. I think it's something that's going to happen, I just trust we'll do it properly, especially with regard to climate goals, traffic safety, prevention and all their factors. This is one of the more important tasks, also to reduce the pressures of roads and infrastructure, public transportation is part of it. The Senator mentioned the heavy transports and trucks that you meet one another three times a week if you're on the move, a huge number on the same path, and just telling me that we should seriously consider taking up the beach cruises again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u48	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his inquiry. I kind of agree that we should look at it with an open mind to go back on the beach. Like what? A senator claims to be a massive traffic jam in the highways of the country. It's often that way when you meet them that you're half-mumble, they drive like nothing really slow. I agree completely with this, too, with the public transportation. We are to set goals for the next year how we can improve the role of public transportation in driving, or driving. A senator mentioned the climate goals and other factors, as this is accompanied by massive pollution of all these fleets. For example, I was in Norway in May and lived in the center of Oslo, a friend of mine. When I took a flight home, I walked for two minutes, and then I was inside the door until I got out of Leifs Station. There's the natural bus and tram, and I could buy myself an app on the phone that I bought for the day, then I could go to the bus, I could go to the train, I could take a lightcar, and I could take a cruise through Osjordur, just this one app. It's something we need to examine. We can do it this way. But we're a little behind somebody else, and we're in this private car business. It's natural to put a lot of emphasis on the private car, it's like the housing business, everybody's supposed to own it, and we're that way, Icelanders, maybe because we're living in a different situation, but many others, and we're very few. It is often a long time apart, and it is difficult to maintain transportation, e.g. Like in Southnes, now there is an incredible flow of labor around the Southnes. It is very difficult to stay out of public transportation; people may have to wait for hours to get a bus ride, rather than just travel faster. That's one of them too. We are so few, and this can be hard to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I agree, of course, we're a small nation, which is why we haven't put into these great, expensive investments. The reason for this to occur is a number of factors, climate issues, major increases in tourists, etc. that may allow us to get into this. I just want to turn to something else, but I'm still going to agree with what came up the way of bicycle footpaths and footpaths. In my area, between Eyjafjörður and Akureyri, it is meant to link it even more than the word is by such paths that I think is an enormous interest in this area, apart from making it more interesting to enjoy. This is what matters when we discuss young people's residence opportunities, older people, those who want to start business and all of this. We often talk about it in the scattered regions that we want young people to come home from college, and the cables we've talked about here, of course, relate to transportation, they're part of transportation. I've been a little upset about the way the government has been going on with that. There will be 500 million in the years to build the system. This may mean 20 years or something at that rate. But how does the senator feel about the methods used last time and should only be once, i.e. spending a little time with your rural communities and having as many connections as possible instead of highlighting fragile areas? Of course, there are some communities where it is a significant risk for me if they have to wait a long time, that they just don't survive.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u50	V.E.G. President. I'm a little worried about the last thing that ever happened. A senator said that these settlements would survive if there was not to be a very progressive fiber - optic projection. Of course, there has been a discussion during the election season that leads to this location. There's a lot to say. I can mention, for example. A church monasteries, one of the rural communities that served as a sign of breaking down. There are still more of them, such as Redfark and Breurdal Louis, where it seems to me that tourists have changed much and that they have made great changes to the village cemeteries. It's clear that if we want to keep people at home and get them back into these rural communities, we'll have to fix it and put a fiber optics for perfect communication and make it attractive. That's what you're saying. We're talking about a transport program where telecommunications are falling under and beyond, and this is a key factor in the development of rural development. I have mentioned the Faeroe Islands before in a talk on a transportation program. There they only drill tunnels under the sea and e.g. Now the tunnel is being offered from the East Island to the Straumey, from Runuvík, and to the Canvas of the Faeroe Islands, which will complete everything. Then it will take 10 minutes to drive from Rusnavík to Thors Harbor instead of driving a 75-mile drive that takes an hour. This is what they do to keep these rural areas and towns built. It seems to be the city's trend, that it sucks all its human resources. This may be the problem, as I have mentioned before, that we are far too few. It is now one of our goals to be 800,000 in a few years, but it may be a little bold, but it would change a lot of life in this country if we were just more. Talk about fiber optics. These settlements also need three - fold electricity. It is in 2016 in a society that produces 18,000 gigawatts of electricity.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u51	A respectable president. In my first talk on this subject, I carefully reviewed our committee's viewpoint in a smaller part of the Transport Committee. While we support it, all the proposals of the greater part of the committee and strongly encourage the approval of a transport program, we still strongly criticize the lack of long - term vision of the population and have long been showing that contributions to transport have been shameful in recent years. This is manifested in various ways. We see a great increase in the arrival of tourists and much more efficient use of roads, but at the same time, people are holding on to transport donations. This is shown by the fact that we also see that position in general. It should not be forgotten that general maintenance is not some luxury that we allow ourselves to be maintained. Rather, it is a general maintenance of investments already under attack. It will be, as was well said of the reason. paritaprevir Steeringrimur J. Sigfússon in our conversation yesterday about this matter owes us a debt to the future because it breaks down the road system and we have to attack much more expensive reinvestments if we don't maintain general maintenance. To review the situation on the maintenance program as revealed to us on the committee, this year 6 billion dollars are being set. in maintenance. Then, the projection is intended, i.e. The minister, according to the transport plan, has 7 billion set up next year and then again 7 in 2018. At the same time, the road makes it say that it takes 85.9 billion only to keep it gone, i.e. to protect the investments that have been made. The majority of the committees suggest 8 billion. We criticize it and feel that it is not enough. Of course, we're glad we're looking at the lower limit of the amount of money the Vega has said we need, but we think we need to look to the upper limit and go a little further because the road model also told us that if we wanted to move on and not just move on, we'll start an update on the road system, i.e. If safety is needed, there will be 11 billion per year. Therefore, we suggest on our own suggestions, and I would like to petition the government and members of the members of the administrations in this room to accompany us in the process of maintaining 9.5 billion because in recent years the road system has been going down, and we need to work out and improve the investments that have been neglected in recent years, and we need to start taking the first steps into the future. It's not a luxury advance, it's just general update and extra security. I think we all agree on this. We know that, according to the current state of the budget, there are 1.5 billion in defending previous investments and also the first steps, as it were, on the road system that we will not regret. In recent decades we have been reaping bountifully because of the vision here in the '70's, when people began building large quantities of infrastructure into heating and electrical distribution systems and thereafter to heat. We've saved a hell of a price on it. In this case, we are not saving money, but we are improving safety and thus saving money in the health system. That is why it is so important, not only that but also that it is the prospect of the future. We have criticized the lack of vision in transport. Then I'd like to welcome the solidarity that has been achieved among my rural society in the capital area. It is no longer a matter of time, so we only get reviews from the local community. Rather, they come together with a vision of how they want the capital area to develop. I think it's a great role model. There is a very clear vision of the future in its wishes, e.g. Regarding public transportation, speed cars, an idea of a city line that includes speed cars and possibly a light train system. It is requested that the State be increasingly involved in this fairness check, location checks, etc. I myself live in Garðatown and spend a long time in my car in the morning and the second part. As a result, there are both extreme pollution and pressures on the people who are rushing to attend school or to get children to leisure activities, etc., so it is also about improving the quality of life of people living here who are looking for light trains or carriages or other such to reduce the pressure of the streets. What interests me, too, is the way people are looking at organization in any other way. This is contrary to groups in the capital area. People are looking more closely at the inhabited area so that they can live in close proximity to the workplace so that they have a bit of a blended core. This is something that I believe the government should try to support because our quality of life here will be greatly increased if our access to services and jobs and things were easier than it is now. Of course, this is a misdirection between the people of the capital, but I don't think it's better to come down from the tomb or from Hafnarfjörður, the natural way from Hafnarfnarfjörður through the town of Garður, and those who come from the Southnes, they get very easy from the South, but then everything inside the Hafnarfnarfjörður and the men drag it into a city. It's about looking to what the people need. There's not some access to the private car. It's only about improving quality of life when people talk about it. I like to see the capital area come together in this because it's the controlling people from all categories. I hope this is also a matter of improving the availability of those who live in the outer collar around the capital area of Acdér, Zelphos, Whos, and the towns in the Southnes, where a lot of the people living in the capital area live. Speaking of the future, I'd like to mention that I feel very short that we're looking for a longer time to see how our country's settlements are developing. I myself have no interest in living in a city we're getting very fast. I feel that there is a lack of policy in making decisions about how and where we will simply support the growth of a country's core. How will we support and improve our linking with Western settlements? How are we going to strengthen our support and link the eastern settlements in which people have been uniting and doing so very well, even taking together to set up one service agency for an eastern bridge, etc.? We will not respond quickly to this development with support when it comes to transportation. Instead, the discussion will always take place in a way that allows us to take on individual projects. Don't you think everybody's bored of this? Why don't we draw up a vision of the future in which we make only political decisions: here to build up, here to build up, and to strengthen the core, so that all our decisions should be made that can become so on transportation and all possible. As an example, I take the discussion to deal with the process of walking. Then I hear my friends here in the capital saying, "It's just that there's just a bunch of spooks in the country. That's what they talk about. We can't go on like this. It is somehow this conflict between the country and its capital, as if it were of no importance to us living in the capital area of our land. This is of utmost importance to us because it is about how the country's development is going to be and therefore how Iceland's community is one unit. We know that the women go first into the capital area. We've seen a very interesting indicator or research I've mentioned here, and some may think I'm obsessed, but it opened my eyes to the effect this could have on me. There is an opening clue to a study conducted at the University of Akureyri, Andrea Hjálmsdóttir, and others, that shows that the position of women in the area around the Hinder Earth has improved since the tunnel was taken. I think it's amazing. Let's look at this position instead. Let's find out. Could it be that, in place of, and here speaking of an old regional minister, a variety of such small projects in which we try to promote inner growth and put hundreds of millions in, when moving south to our homes and we call edifices, should the transport issue be linked to the regional strategy if it really is so that the situation of the group that is weaker for moving south gets stronger at home if men improve transport? I feel that this discussion has to be taken up from the tombs of the country's settlements and capital area. It matters to me how the land develops, how the land develops. We need to look for ways that sometimes big projects and measures are needed to create a future. It is not just a matter of handling ten people in autistic situation. We are looking to the future of urban development. Now, my time is up and I'm a little down because this group of paintings, I'm coming to him for the first time in the season of some sense, has opened my eyes to enormous numbers. The community has so much to do with what we are doing here, both in the capital area and in the country. We depend so much on transportation. Because it is a costly group, it is so important that we try to develop objective standards of how we discuss these matters. Perhaps we are going to try to get ourselves out of that tire track and the figure that has been on the topic of transportation, that this is a conflict between individual projects, this is a conflict between the West, Eastern or capital, the country's settlement, or what it is about individual projects and funds, and we are more likely to set down objective standards and say: Here is one list where we have set priorities for security projects. Consider, for example, what I mentioned earlier in opposition, the way from Fitum to the airport, there is one thing that should have been on such a list. What you find on such a list then goes on just some stress - based process based on all the changes that are relevant to security. Then we have set our priorities for a tunnel, and there is a funeral plan, but we never discuss it that way. It has been developed, and there is a policy that focuses on the urban development I mentioned earlier, some long - term vision in rural development. Then there are some people with projects to help with the development of employment. [[The president calls.]] For example, if we had had any such objective standards for professional development, it would have been long since we had completed a school trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for a well - lit and well - lit speech, as is the case with some urgency. A senator very well inside the seminars, no less hope. What raised my questions was this difference between what is needed to maintain roads and what is suggested in the bill or in the conclusion. I don't understand - maybe I've just lived too long abroad, been too much in Norway or I don't know what -- why can't you ever face the reality that we live in, i.e. that it takes money to keep a road system open. There is a need for money to have a proper road, we're just talking about maintenance on the road. I don't think it's unusual that we try to nurture the infrastructure we have. We're getting out of a difficult time. This was a time of collapse, as has often been foretold from this public address - yes, with certainty. [[Up front.]] Similarly, I feel that I have never been good roads in Iceland. It's like there's never been an overall perspective on road events in Iceland. This theme, that plans can never be made that go on, can't be accepted that things make a difference - has it always been like this? Is this always the same problem we're dealing with in Icelandic politics? Is this part of an Icelandic culture that is related to the weather, that we must always change our mind? Why is it not just possible to answer the call that it takes 11 billion people to maintain their lives?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u53	A respectable president. We've had a very forward minister of transportation, he's sitting on a chair behind me, named Kristján L. Möller. This is seen in the Commission's list of smaller parts, as a share of land production, the amount of money spent in his day at the Department of Transport. Then they decided to take a little flight into the future, but since then we have had a government that has simply said that this was not a priority. Now they come to put money on hold, and many say: Yes, that's just because there's an election coming. I don't really care, because the need has become so great. If it took an election to get money into the transportation system, it's fine. But I completely agree with what. A senator's concern is that this fundamental factor in securing money to protect investments - didn't we do it in any company? Is that not what most of us always try to do, i.e. To protect the investments that have already been attacked? Otherwise, we have come into reinvestment, to create a new way instead of fixing the existing one. If there is obviously a serious danger of taking certain steps, it is important to take a certain course. I think it's similar that maintenance should be done first and then individual projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u54	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator will agree on this in 100%. After I got a car and got a car test, I've been driving around the country only. There is a difference between areas of land in the way the roads are. I don't think that's fair. If we're talking about 11 billion for maintenance, we could use that amount for maintenance on the West Side alone, on the south side of the Westfjords alone. The roads there are natural - I don't know what to say - just traffic accidents; not to mention the road to the grave. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the road to Doom, where there is a massive stream of tourists. There are people going in RVs, on giant cars, on small little cars that have nothing to do with this. There's a precipice and nothing to hold or support. Have we come to a place where we need to close the roads for safekeeping, e.g. The road to the graver, i.e. if not getting new funding in there? Are we in a position where we simply cannot keep some roads open, and that pearls like Dooms are too dangerous because the situation is too dangerous? We've neglected this natural bulb and the chance of death. Is it just time to close and say, "Sorry, we have to fix this road? We're just waiting for a terrible disaster to happen. There's buses going around. Should we wait for them to slide down because the road passes? Are we really going to be there? Roads can cause traffic accidents. The prevention of road construction is simply a matter of fixing the roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u55	One of our proposals in the memory of the section is just about to take place in the way discussed, on the road to Death. I hope the government party members, members of the administration parties here, agree to that part of our arrangement. Speaking of keeping the roads and talking about the Westline, it's very memorable to me when I drove from Stykkisolmi to Patrekfjords. When we were driving all over those necks and hopping around these roads - you would have really needed a kidney belt like they have on the machine. My twins were then about six months old, and I thought to myself, " I couldn't imagine driving this way with my children. ' It's a long way, it takes time to drive this. You don't feel so good in the car, in the humper and the turn and the turn. I'm not sure I would trust myself to drive there with young children. It is hard enough to drive a short chapter on dirt roads and farm roads on the way up to the cottage with the children. I take my hat down to young children living on the south side of the West under these circumstances, so that's just what they're saying. I think we need to look into the community that this is about to become the main focus when it comes to settlements, i.e. Transport and communication. We need to stop calling out plans, with projects that all are good, the program of the Kingdom of God. I think we're making a very big mistake in regional affairs by not looking much more at the seminary and putting the big projects in there. Perhaps the understanding of the projects would also increase if we put them in a social context rather than just a conflict between us here, as a result, all too often.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u56	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I found her very interesting, as I would like. It is always good to hear of people who have been assigned to serve on the committee and who have had visitors tell us a little about the situation. In fact, I know it too through a financial committee; it's where all the rural administrations, the transportation, the optics, now the triphasic electricity, and it's somehow all up to the bottom. So you pretend to be a little in there, and then you live in an area where things have been done, but there are many things you can't do, as mentioned here. the proposal for this work to be completed, although it is suggested that it be completed. There are also these roads, these bad roads, only on Ring Road 1, which are unalterable, such as the front - office of the Bermuda Worldbed, also in Langanes, and in other places where there is a fear - inspiring situation. I'd like to ask, because there's been a lot of talk about security, how the senator feels about taking up some sort of beach cruise again, not perhaps the way they were here in the past, since the present requires otherwise. But is there something that you might move off the highways and on the coasts again so that we could reduce the pressure? As I said earlier, when I drive only between Akureyri and Olafurland, I'd like to attend a lot of trucks. In fact, they go around certain days a week, and there are more, more cars. It's a huge security issue, too. I wondered if the idea is crazy or if it's possible. I just want to hear from the senator about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u57	Thanks for that. I can't really answer that because I'm just a little technical at times that I just want experts to figure out these things. I think it's part of some practitioner. If we make it our goal that we want to reduce heavy transport on the highways around the rest of the tourists and all that, we're going to get some kind of human beings to figure out what's best for us to do. Maybe it would be better if one of the ideas we want to have the minority opinion viewed and noses revealed, i.e. This would somehow improve if separate lanes were e.g. Right away between Reykjavík and Akureyri, it would be very important. That would be less of a beach cruise. I just don't know anything about these things. I'm willing to sit down and set some goals, and then get some experts to figure this out and find the best results. Sometimes we're too calm about this. We tend to hold on to some means rather than maintain a goal and then be ready to discuss the results. I'd also like to mention, for example, just because we're discussing this separate road policy between Akureyri and Reykjavík, that in all this discussion about train travel, I have the dream of living to see that this is the way of the U.S.A., or something like that in the capital, that we have a train station in the city. I feel somehow that every real city should have a train station, but maybe it's an old-fashioned thought. But I think we should also look at this big route - why not start considering that there may be a train between Akureyri and Reykjavík something coming in the future? [[The president calls.]] You don't know. [[The president calls.]] But I want us to go look over there and wonder if it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u58	Mr. President. I agree with the senator that it may be utteristic to visualize this, but of course, a double road policy is not peripheral. But to imagine such a train system in between, I'm hoping the climate change won't lead us in that direction, but that's perhaps one of the things you're worried about with all this traffic on the highways of the country. It may not be in the spirit of what we need to consider that we are about to become a considerable city, as the senator mentioned, namely. The jam here in the morning. I wonder at lunch today's dining room that the three years I've spent at the council - I feel a huge change in this autumn just since I got here in 2013. I feel that the weight of traffic is much higher, and this, of course, is in opposition to what we need to do. If we are somehow going to try to meet these goals, we must make adjustments. It is not enough to think of an electrical force and something like that, but we also need to consider proper and real cultures, which, in some way, are stored in some kind of train structure, I think. I just want to think about it, too, because we're both interested women on a tunnel and the study that the senator referred to, which was just so surprising. I live in a rural society that has four or more tunnels and needs one more and the highest. A minister sitting behind me is one of the movers that will be checked along with me and others. Because the talk was called a diamond, Entries are drilling out and south, connecting their settlements, even though they are 75 miles [75 km] apart, so they look not for miles but simply to connect the settlements. Nor do they look to the population. I think that's one of the important things that's really important, and that's the point the Senator entered how much things changed for women. [[The president calls.]] It's important in these perimeters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u59	A respectable president. It is possible to be raised in Kópavogi and live in Garden Town, born in Reykjavík, and be interested in a tunnel around the country. I am. This is because I believe this is part of urban development, and I believe that the debate on individual soils sometimes goes into failure because we don't put them in a social context and because we don't associate them with a vision. What are we doing with these tunnels? People who experience this every day will understand very well, but the rest of us may need to see better the large community context. There, we may sometimes hide those who speak to them during the council. I'm also an importer at this suggestion, so that's just said. I feel that somehow we need to get out of these holes when discussing these matters. Then again talking about the capital area, it's so weird that I'm moving in winter, I'm moving out of Kopavog, and I'm moving to the Garden Town. I'm not moving around a long time, but just going to park town and taking from there the city of Reykjavík has increased the time. Between one and two in the day it may be two and a half minutes, but in the morning it's an extra card, twenty minutes, just that butt. There's an overexhaustment in the capital area over a long period of time. It's not just 15 minutes in the morning. This is from the time the clock is eight to nine in the morning, and it is an hour and a half in the afternoon. Only that time has a major impact on the quality of life of the capital population and those living in the capital area and then again as I described before, Southnesin, Acdine, and Seleucos. [[The president calls.]] So whether we live in or outside the capital area, we must also consider this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u60	Mr. President. We'll discuss a transport plan here. Transporting is a matter of interest to us in the land of the country. Happily, we are getting more and more members of our group, members of the council here in the capital area. That's a good thing, for there's no use. I'm sorry, though, it's been a long time before, and we've been embarrassed. The independent group and the forward movement have ruled this country for decades and are now in control, and they are shamed at how transportation in this 21st century is far and wide around the country. Now 15 minutes before the election, a campaign driver is pulled out of the Environmental and Transport Committee. All right, we're happy to find that all the roads and transportation work is done at a height above our heads. Of course, I like it. A smaller part of the environment and transport committee improved, and I support his proposals. It's, of course, pretty late in the ass, since this government has had three years to show its will in action and put a little bit of action into place. These changes are now being made in terms of increased transport funds, maintenance roads, regional and crossways, and new projects, referred to the next government and the next budget. Of course, you hope that the government that comes to power after these elections will have the strength to make transport a way out. Of course, the condition of the road system burns upon us and how it is to be crushed. The governor and the head of the Roadmaker complain bitterly that they do not have enough money to care for their minimum duties. No doubt many members of the Parliament know that they have been given phone calls to them, where bad roads are complained. I received a phone call this morning from a young farmer living west, who said that he was giving up on driving four, five miles back and forth every day with his children to school, where the road would be bad because of lack of maintenance, failure of sewers and pelvic gates, poor roads, and no longer had been conventional or had been carried down on the road for a very long time. Of course, it's a story that humans can tell far and wide about the country, those who live on malar road and land road, and that reflects what the situation has become. People who have to take such roads day by day to get to work, to take their children to school, and to attend service to larger places in their territory are giving up living in such transportation. Of course, that is not acceptable in Iceland in the 21st century. Of course, the road looks forward with the changes now available, hoping to begin preparing for the next summer, to have some money to play in order to do her job. Of course, the road is a pity for having to have this role as a service on its shoulders, but it's a treasure. Of course, the government should have done much better than it has done since its first year, but it has been all in a swamp film. We also know that as this growth increases, it has been used more often than not as an excuse for the inability to take action on the side of the State because there is now a filing situation. It may be in areas that are not thin, and the road system is very bad. At that time, the State has held hands and has not financed projects as needed. I'm just hoping that there won't be an excuse for the next term, whoever happens to be in power, that there's so much of it in the capital area that the government must hold on to itself and not want to increase the pressure by putting too much money into maintenance and construction. That argument is not appropriate. Today, people boast about the position of the State Fund. Of course, this situation has been building and growing because the foundation was laid in its time for the last government to work to restore the financial and state of the land. Economic growth began here in 2010. But the country's infrastructure is an image of design, including the road system, fiber - optics, our airports, our ports, and our telecommunications around the country. It would continue to be counted; the development around the largest tourist attractions and the tourist attractions that men want to visit, such as the Doomsfjörður, discussed in a talk earlier. The road there is extremely dangerous, but the number of tourists goes there, for it is, of course, a very remarkable and pleasant place to watch. But we never know when such a serious accident can happen, considering the way the road is. Travel services today provide enormous sums of money into society. Its currency income is well over 200 billion a year, and paying in the form of taxes to the State is about 70 billion. The government has chosen not to nurture the infrastructure and structure of transport, so the next government is going to make a major effort in that category, since there is a growing problem. If I put back up what I said, people will boast about the good standing of a trust fund, but in the Credit column of that book, there will be a growing problem in so many areas of transportation, health, education, and so on. A good status can be shown in your homebook if you never renew anything and build up the maintenance requirements in your home, so you may be able to make your homebook look better for a short time. But the time comes when you will have to contribute money to normal maintenance, which would better have been done progressively, as if this government should have had a reputation in it to make a point of looking for a certain amount of GDP in the building of transport. That rate was about 2.5% 2008, but now it is only 1.1% of GDP when national profits and state funds are growing. It says all that has to be said that humans have not returned what has been due to the infrastructure in the years that this government has been ruling. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u61	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I have to agree now. Senator, we have failed to perform the infrastructure, as would be the case, and the roads are naturally to be part of the infrastructures to be assured of being there. I know why. A senator has a lot to do with the Westfjords and, of course, lives there, as everyone should know. It is prominent in the roads of Western Europe how far behind they are compared to other roads in the country. Yes, there are more than tens of one - build bridges in the South. Yes, there are some pagans in the Northeast that may not be in the best shape, but the situation is not nearly as bad as it has been when I drive south in the West. Yet, I have traveled many times, including Run in Georgia, where preconceived is, where roads were better than roads on the south side of the West. I'd like to ask you which one. A senator knows why it's like this. Why hasn't you had your ass kicked? Why have these roads not been made safe? The ferry Baldur is actually a better option than driving this road. You can also see that all the farms that were there have been desolated. You might ask yourself, " Is this the future of the West if we do not respond to the requirement to update the road system in that area, so that it is only closer to the 21st century than the 19th century, since it seems at best to be some horse - drawn trails that have been placed in a fragmentation order? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u62	Mr. President. This is a good question, and as a resident of the West, for over 50 years, I have often asked that question myself. What causes this? In any case, you would now have thought that if you were a member of a transport minister and had something to do with this, your priorities would be to complete a barrier to the land. That would be our priority. However, priorities have not been made just because the people of the country - whether for sea or country - will be bound in their path. Of course, we should be there a long time ago. There is no one talking about double roads on all farms or things like them, but that there are no barriers to people in Iceland in 2016, it is as if these well - known tourist roads are not put in first place during the summer season. However, it is only now that at the high General Assembly, individuals who press more often, not more often, to put various assignments ahead of others have been put to the test by the West. It may not be nice to say that we haven't had enough officials in this council over the years, but they have sometimes come from parts other than the West and pressured tunnels in their own country. Of course, it is not a great ambition not to look at it as at least one way or another. Set your priorities in order to place bound fragments on the land's roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u63	A respectable president. Yeah, I agree with what. A senator says that it is natural to be self - conscious in the 21st century. Now I don't know if it's true, but my friend, a historian and a great Western, told me that the roads we were pushing on cars these days in the West had originally been paths for horses and people. Since then, there have been many natural things, we have got cars, and even heavy transports around these roads. I don't know how many percent of the angles are going on in some countries, even up to 16%, and um-turns that are extremely dangerous, so if you don't mention it by now, you don't know what can happen. I don't think the situation on the south side of the West is open to humans. I understand that Westerners are very thoughtful about the West. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's only on the road to the Candle of Death. Reservation is one of Europe's largest habitats and has a great global position. I understand why one tourist stopped going there and just crying because she was so scared to drive the road. Has it become this way that we need either to close it or to place some limit on how wide cars can drive it? As in the situation today, both buses and RVs go through there, often many cars in a row. It's simply dangerous. The road is too narrow and is made for all other vehicles and for a completely different period of time. It may be time to take more drastic measures to show that much more building is needed to maintain this road. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u64	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ásta Helgadóttir Helgavóttir has shown a keen interest in the road to Dorafjörg. It's very good to have an army here from the capital area in that sector, not help. I've sometimes said what. A member of the Parliament that she was ambassador to the scattered and West in the General Assembly. This is not done by having strong advocates in the capital area. We, in the smaller part of the Environment and Transport Committee, suggested that more money be cut off on the Canary, on the Aarnesfjörður and on Forest Beach, on the Domills improvements and initiatives in national and national transport roads throughout the country. These adjustments also speak of a 200 billion putting in place. K. In the lake of Waters, which, of course, is tragic, and we senators have seen pictures on YouTube of the state of the road there. There are many bad conditions. I want this last seconds of my speech to say about flying in the country that there has never been a need but now to get the flight into public transport and to look at the routes that are gone in Scotland, where people in the middle of the market who have a legal home and the capital have a chance to obtain a plane charge at a lower price than the average person does, the public tourist and others who don't live there. We've got to get the flight into public transportation. [[The president calls.]] It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u65	A respectable president. It may be that the explanation for why the necessary road improvements in the West have been so slowly resolved that there might be a lack of understanding, let us say, of the city's spokesman. This may not be the least because it is always spoken of as if it were about the right people on the West to communicate with the capital. But it too, and we see it through increasing tourist currents, about the potential of the capital to interact with and use access to areas such as the West, e.g. with foreign tourists who need to be kept above them by showing them the beauty of their land. Suddenly, it becomes a matter of vitality to get in touch and get out into the territory. Perhaps it will be the services of the Western environment when the financial interests of tourism and tourism are about to become important and may lead to better transportation. Of course, it is very sad that this is the case. I didn't mean to talk to you about it. A senator. We've talked about some professional priorities for transport projects. Now, as we have seen in the case of geopaths, they have a bit liked to fall in on their own interests, and other areas have been left out. Today, however, a number of years have passed since a land tunnel program seems to have been decommissioned, and it has not been part of it since. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator believe that it has been a step back to the fact that the council does not have any particular land - to - earth strategy that sets priorities in a professional way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u66	Mr. President. Yes, I think it's very important to have an effective long-term tunnel program where the nationals combine to set priorities. I also believe that we have come to the place of making a special effort to complete a river - burning funeral. We both know the debate on Eelfjörður Straits, and we're familiar with the Aust meeting of Sundrum tunnels. I believe both of these areas are to be rushed, that we are now taking an effort to do so, and that puts it ahead of many other things, to ensure safe transport where they are dangerous. If we talk only about the Eelphine tunnel, it has been said that it is now good transportation between Iceland and Reykjavík. All right, but are they safe when it comes to better care? How many times is the spray flounder shut down because of avalanche danger, ash, and otherwise about corpses? Although the word is acceptable in the Icefjord, from Reykjavík to Isafjörður, there is an extremely dangerous barrier that exists in both humans who work there and those who go through the slopes, never knowing when the danger will be realized. It's a matter of security and when the accidents happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u67	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator needs a lot of professional work and methodology in setting priorities in such important transport projects as a tunnel. It should give social views a basis, and it should not be possible to compromise a certain assessment of a need that is faced. It seems that sometimes it doesn't. This may be what needs to be discussed more fully in this context, how to set priorities. The criteria and methods of identifying priorities are all set. But then there are other interests that seem to outweigh the challenges. Hv. A senator is my co-sponsor to suggest a transfer of Eelfjörður to transport and priorities. That's the second motion presented at this council. These tunnels are designed to replace the Slyslísavíð - with 22 defined avalanches; in some weathers, avalanches have fallen all over them, and school cars have to drive this way through the winter months. So the tunnel is a critical safety issue. I'm surprised they're not in line yet, let alone. I guess we'll agree on that, me and what. Senator. But the question is also, Does the senator agree with me that it is basic to complete the transport system before men start doing some quality work here and there in the country? We have to think of the fact that this foundation project has not yet been completed on the West, it has not yet been completed on adequate transportation. [[The president calls.]] In the meantime, they must put their priority ahead of everything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u68	Madam President. We're gonna go for a second. A senator shares such views on transportation, as in so many other matters. If we had had had the opportunity to have this more to say in the past, I think it would be better paid today. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I agree that a strategy that's going to go through must be in place. The current Minister of the Interior has been flirting with private projects. I don't like the fact that this is supposed to be a prenup for future purchases, such as in the medical system. The inhabitants of these areas, Western and other regions around the country, have throughout the country, with their vast fishing resources in the seas, contributed enormously to the national farms, and owned for every cent on the roadside, and have no reason to be ashamed of it. I often think it's like drunks to small and scattered settlements that have come to their feet; that they should stay and see if they don't get out in a calm way. They may not be in control, but they are sad. We are not to be encouraged by such attitudes. Rather, we should attend what is right in our own eyes. Of course, these areas, whether Westerns or other areas in the 21st century, are to be funded for strong ways designed for modern use in the 21st century, so that living conditions are as good as possible. That is a natural requirement and self - determination.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u69	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking the Environment and Transport Committee for a excellent review of this matter after 1st. and some useful adjustments proposed here during the second discussion of the proposal, from the greater part, but also from the smaller parts. I would like to emphasize the importance of changing our habits and not agreeing only to the change options of the majority of the committee but also to the change in the smaller parts because the transport situation is in such a way that it does not, in fact, mean not to take on anything after the inactions that have marked all this ideal period, both in the newest and in maintenance. Therefore, there is a full need to undertake more projects over the next four years than the plan planned and also more than the plan will predict the approval of more than one part's contracts. These are tasks that have already been considered important in the long-term strategy, i.e. The 12-year plan. Hence, it is really just a hurry to work that everyone agrees on, on the contrary, here at the council, that it is important to go. In view of the failure of the three years that this government has had, I think that each person can understand how important it is to take care of something in this four - year program, although it reaches only to two years of age, as strange as it is for a four - year plan. Half this strategy is natural, as has been said in the discussion, a plan of the past, i.e. year behind 2015 and 2016, which are now starting to run its course, and the period of implementation is actually over. Therefore, the main focus is here for the next two years, and it is not particularly in the maintenance where there is a reason to stress that it is important to accept the suggestions of the smaller section; for, of course, no one who takes advantage of the country's highway system has been so long tolerated that the road system is making great noises, damaging roads, but is also creating certain risks in the road that are important to resolve, e.g. the holes seen in the road system and the streets that we see, especially those who serve the ever - increasing stream of travel. This, of course, is another reason why it is important to look forward to making rapid progress in this area that it will not be overlooked that here the tourist stream is actually increasing far beyond the expectations that anyone had just a few years ago. There's nothing left to it. We now see predictions of a third increase in the next year, with comparable increases in traffic over a number of roads used by tourism. It means wearbacks, and it also calls for repairs that have just become so much used that it is no longer prehumanable to have a service level at them as low or as poor as it is now. It is also important to create opportunities for tourism in areas other than currently most attended, i.e. The Golden Triangle and the Snow Valley, perhaps. Most of the tourists are on the move. Therefore, there is reason to rejoice over what was already planned in the program when it arrived at a council that is opening up the possibility of a different route into the Westland, through Uxabourg, by making use of access to areas that can be used to meet these growing tourist flows, such as in the South, access to glaciers, access to different natural bulbs. This duty is one of the suggestions the smaller part gives, and I want to use this opportunity to highlight it specifically, which is the road to the Forest Coast. By implementing its implementation, a new ring - route option will open up on a complex discrepancy that gives significant opportunities for tourism to take place now when we need to look for new solutions for hundreds of thousands of more tourists each year than just in the previous year. There is also evidence to suggest that there is no basis for making special money if it is thought that it is necessary to increase the income of the state's funds in order to meet the urgency of these projects because it is possible to increase the income of the state's budget from those coming here. There are various currency opportunities, and in itself it is only a matter of taking advantage of the opportunities to finance projects that come to meet this growing number of tourists, but it is also progress that will benefit us from Iceland on our journeys through the country and in transport between places. This project is also related to the proposed reduction of the portion that leads to the Doomshold and was discussed here in response to a speech at the end of the year. A senator who spoke before me, but an enormous number of tourists, of course, are visiting the Dooms' home, and, of course, it's time to improve the situation of those who really belong to the past century, as well as any other form of tourism being practiced there today. We are glad that now at the end of the funding of a major enterprise just some 20 years ago, that is, the Half - a - world tunnel. I think it's the right thing to remember that next year, 2017, the payments will be closed, which should make it possible to disappear. At the same time, we need to consider doubleing the tunnel. While this was a successful way to finance this specific project, it cannot be overlooked that this way has been grossly unfair, and since the capital, only a marked taxation has been paid. When we consider further major projects, including The double corridors and the gratifying of doubles in other ways to and from the capital area, and in connection with other major projects, must be looked forward to paying more than the sum of money to finance the roads. I think we're supposed to be pretty soon when it comes to using new technologies for operating in the road system. Of course, it is for a very predictable future, in all the coming years, fairly obvious that there will be absolutely no need to have sheds and people to collect road charges, since all traffic must be monitored and recorded electronically and charged with paying dues. There is nothing in itself that prevents the passing of roads, then just out of use, instead of collecting them through the fuel charge right now. I think that, Icelanders, we live with a very powerful infrastructure when it comes to information technology and the practical use of the option related to it. Although it has been a good thing to finance the Vaults in a way that was done, it is important that we try to be as hard as an equal in taking a course, and we are not taxing certain parts of the country or that there are some urban areas that are exposed to taxation and others in a similar situation, perhaps just because they bombed the payment schedule when it was tried to set up for them, as is currently relevant for urban areas far from Reykjavík. That's what I say because, of course, it's getting a bit urgent to try to get a conclusion on the biggest road that we've been discussing in recent years. Actually, it's not just the past few years, it's decades. I think I'm right to remember that at my first election election meeting in the latter part of the last century C.E. 25 years ago, then, in the leading part of the mayor's election in Reykjavík, there was a hot discussion on the proposed Sunwater Railway, which was then thought to be carried out just around the corner, and in fact, it would be merely laying the final hand on design. I'm afraid, though, that she hasn't had anything to do with it. Yet, there is a tremendous need to be carried out, both to improve the north and west of the city, in order to move traffic from highway 1 out of the formed wastelands, i.e. urban areas in Mosfellstown, in the island of Reykjavík and Kjalarnesi, and take the huge drive from this site on highway 1 through Kollafjordur and there through the Mosfellsville and into Reykjavík, taking it to bridge to the alley, to shorten the road, and to reduce road accidents, which have, unfortunately, been too long on this road, with the tragic consequences of accidents. The national interest in this project has long since been drawn up in calculations of how much good it would be along the way to the investment, since this, of course, takes an enormous amount of traffic and involves a significant amount of money for them. However, there have been a number of main factors involved in this project for a long time. One of them is the transliteration of the city of Ellisovog in Reykjavík, i.e. how to get into the waterway from Grafarvogur and move on into the rest of Reykjavík, so to speak, because that is not an issue of which goes on over the Coralfjord, to Elfs, and to go to Gunnnes and Geldinganes, and to continue into the Grafarvong. But it is the first or last part of the route, depending on the direction of each person coming, who has been controversial, whether to go on fillings into the Canal, which was the cheapest way, and the one that the road was found to be successful, whether to cross the scale, because it is difficult for the bridges to be carried out, since the Samship's situation in the Daffy Sea must not be ruined, and then the ideas of the city authorities have had through a tunnel. The other factor that has caused the failure to achieve sufficient agreements in one way or another is the question of how to finance it and how much it can be used to cover such projects. Reykjavíkurburg has rightly made comments as to the taxation of road transport within the community. Of course, it may also be noted that this work is paid on a premium, but it comes from the funds of the government simply under the pretext. For the next transport program, which is really only after two years of the council, it would be important to see some lines on this long-term strategy, because while it was a good decision after collapse to spend more of the funds that had been planned for the project to promote public transport at that time, the expansion of the Western road and the expansion of the eastern areas and the northern capital area by which it cannot be extended by means of thousands of traffic traffic flows through such large areas as the real evidence. This was about a swimming track, a respectable president. So we are only staying at the capital area and the transport situation here in particular is inevitable except to mention only the airport, especially because there was no opportunity to discuss this with the Minister of Ministers at the beginning of the week in unsupervised queries where a travel minister could not resist. Then we discussed what turns to the airport here in Reykjavík and a so - called emergency highway, which is now rather unfortunate on the runway that was closed several months ago at Reykjavík. So far, nothing has been replaced by an emergency route. It's easy to assume that calling the third runway here at the Reykjavík International Airport is not the right thing to do because people obviously get along without it, at least. for some time. However, it is fully clear that having a runway on the southwestern corner allows the aircraft to land in a flight policy that was served by this circuit is a step toward improving flight security here. There has been a long history of such a course at the Cheflavík Airport. At the end of a vote for the future of the city's Reykjavík airport, the then secretary of transport, Sturla Böðvarsson, offered that such a course could be opened in Chefavík, and closed here if possible, in order to allow the course to stay a little longer. It's a long time to make those promises. It has now been shown that the cost is only 280 million. K. building the path south of Cheflavík, making it light and other equipment so that it can be available. [[The president calls.]] The sale price of the country, which was on the third path here in Reykjavík, was several times higher than that, so the money already exists, and there's nothing to do simply now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for a fine talk and a good tour, for merely bringing up the Westfjords, one of my favorite areas, and then going through the Westland. We debate the importance of distributing the tourists in that area too. This morning's talk gives me a moment, and I'd like to say a few words. A senator on the Daffway because I think it's one of the most advanced means of transportation in this part of the country. It combines southwestern, Western, Western, and Northern countries with events. The export of the Sunway is in itself endless. We could discuss the possibility of putting it on the subway list that was discussed earlier today because it is such a problem. A member of the Parliament spoke of the Dizziness Way for a very long time in his discussion, perhaps 25 years or more. At some point, we discussed putting it in a tunnel. I can't remember why that conversation was pushed out of the table, but I think that with that idea, you could solve a few problems involving sealing in Collajörður and other bridges in the pool. Hv. A senator mentioned remuneration. Then I'd like to say that I think it would be very wise to consider the benefits of taking the Sunway on some kind of private project in the cooperation of state, rural society, and private depositers or collections of fees that may be available in a second speech, i.e. what kind of methods a person employs in the collection. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar: Is there any reason to agree with the suggestion of the greater part to push the Sunway over the current transport program? [[The president calls.]] Is there any reason to wait for the next schedule?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u71	A respectable president. The short answer to that question is simply: No, I don't think there's any reason. It is true that there were ideas of both tunnels and tunnels under the River of Old age to meet Vega's point of view but also of the city's views of the city's city of Reykjavík at that time. It was then considered too costly. It must be thought of why it seems that there has never been a chance of building a tunnel in the capital area where a greater proportion of people live and travel each day. I think we've really looked too little at such solutions, and we're taking down problems because of traffic, such as the problems we're taking on a heavy track with the Lönhjörður, and where the city authorities have been fighting for a long time to get part of the highway that goes against the deck so that it's better on either side of the road. I have never understood why a tunnel can be discussed in any part of the country other than Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answer to an answer. I am glad that he agrees with me that we should try to keep the waterway in place on our current schedule. Hv. paritaprevir In his talk this morning, a Birgir of an Ármannsson said that I agree on the importance of the waterway, and that would be the ultimate reason for continuing the matter. For currency, I'd like to say, like a what. paritaprevir In his earlier talk, Hjövar's Hjörvar pointed out some ways to collect tax charges. I'd like to say in the context that I was traveling through South Ruthia this summer. We would have thought that the road system would be better than Iceland, though it is. There's a very good road system in South Romania. There they collect road charges with cell phones. You just send a hit into the cloud and pay your toll because you drive highways south in Romania. Of course, we can do the same. It has sometimes been in humans how to install a system of collects, access e.g. to tourist locations, travel clinics, etc. But we should not let it control the discussion or decide how we will build wood in this country. It's a simple staging point. I agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar said that the capital area remained in the discussion of tunnels. It is a technique that has continued to improve. [[The president calls.]] I think we're supposed to open up a little bit more for the discussion that we're going to put the water in the water...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u73	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator in charge of the remuneration, we've been too shy on that subject, and as far as the tourist attractions are concerned. Be all too shy simply to charge a car. I'm giving you special parking fees. There's nothing in my mind against paying for parking parking in parking parking lots at popular tourist locations, just as men pay to park their cars in the city of Reykjavík. It may be a way to earn a reimbursement on the Austrefjörður if a person lacks some income farms to attend, and only if those in that area need to pay for his car where he is, and it comes to the expense of making improvements in the area, rather than to reduce the financial resources we have in a government fund to contribute to health care or other welfare factors for the Icelanders. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good tour of transportation. We're gonna go for a second. A senator shares the experience of not only being council members of the city in Reykjavík but I am only a few minutes earlier, and I can tell you that in the early 1990s, the Sunway was in my city council, and they thought that it would be most likely 12 years before it arrived. Then there is a quarter - century period. On the other hand, I'd like to get involved in the Sunday discussion. We share such concerns, and we do not argue about the importance of accomplishing them. She's very urgent. It's not just the capital of the city, it's a very urgent transport situation for the Norwegian, the Westerns and the Westerns, because it's going to be a foundation into this capital. Then comes the question of currency and this idea of making this transport a private project. I feel that there is a certain amount of information available to me that it is possible to do this on a private project and that it will follow a remuneration because if so, these are the Norwegian and the Westerns, or, in other words, the Norwegian-West being given a payment on all transport routes to the capital. Then they begin to raise questions about equations and equality. We need to look for ways to balance the payoff. Or does the senator not agree that it just needs to be, if it's talking about taking the cost of transportation to the second capital, looking for ways to balance it somehow and putting it on all the groundways to and from the capital instead of limiting it to one project? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u75	A respectable president. Yes, we agree absolutely, and I think it's the best thing to do if, in general, it's possible to have just a payback as a person uses them, that the technology is opening up our ways to do it, because it's a pretty sheep thing that, in fact, since here with water men went through the year and blew up a shelter, people have not had to pay in that way to Reykjavík, but those who come here from Akrelini to work need to see that the market still stands. I believe, however, that it is of primary importance that what was promised is that once the construction is paid off, it will be completed so that people can have confidence that such methods of financing will be maintained and paid at some point in which time they will have become public property. I agree that it may not be a private project, nor can it be just any way. I think it was of great importance to the Haggard tunnel any member of the club and how it was combined and financed and that this was not simply a private means of taxing people for the future. I think what would be a reason to look at the Sunway might be whether founded investors, people like the pension fund and other such would be willing to finance this for some particular time against receiving secure money from the state that could enable them to take action sooner or later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u76	A respectable president. I am glad that we share a common understanding of how this would be accomplished, if it were to be paid, that it is reasonable that such payers do not focus on one means of transportation or two, one of the main causes. During this discussion, there has been the tremendous traffic burden that is breaking the entire network of roads in the country, and especially the road system in the capital. One of the factors that you would naturally consider in this context is whether we have reached the time limit when you need to rethink it all over again, e.g. train transports on the capital and within the capital and the capital to reduce traffic weights that are already falling and calculate the cost of extending stockways, corrosion roads, designing new highways, bows, and what they call are taking into the financial bills that would thus have to be used for such projects. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u77	A respectable president. There is good reason to examine train transport and other such items. I have changed my mind deeply in recent years because of the impression that technology is changing all the factors in transport, not just here but all over the world. We're seeing over the next few years self-driving cars, sharing cars, i.e. has access to a private car without having it, can walk to a private car anywhere, open it with a credit card, just as a person is testing, e.g. Volvo and others in Pittsburgh today, we have made self - driving buses on the streets of Helsinki, one of the northern capitals. This allows for much more planning, much more efficient use of road construction, and a significant reduction in investments both in road and in automobile options. [[The president calls.]] I think that solutions will be far more important than public transportation in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. We share the attractive existence of being members of the city of Reykjavík and who have previously served as members of the city. So I'd like to step in to that end when we review what is usually burning at the voters in Reykjavík, where transportation matters are very high. People are most concerned about what is sometimes called a cracked street system, public transportation, and such the general condition of transport workers in the capital area, and perhaps not least here in Quosina. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see if she considers the current transport strategy to be an adequate response to the changes it makes. Because it's been the understatement of how we, especially during the last term and, fortunately, have liked the budget, we've wanted the locals to be on board, even to use the national parish programmes to set the budget. Then it is that in the results of the rural areas in the capital area, this importance and a number of areas of the country want to focus mainly on the new urban line, a light - reading or fast - moving system, which would be much more focused on public transport, which would make it easier to build around the whole capital area, at the same time in the interest of climate goals. It seems to me that people are moving away from talking about large and heavy footways, such as the Sunways, into those priorities. I wonder why. A senator agrees with these local policies in the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u79	A respectable president. I think transport is just as important as any other matter, that the best way to figure it out is to bring the power of decision to everyone near the population. Now, the capital area has become more or less one area, and it is not good to organize transportation in each of its own communities, but I feel that the formation is a strong option, as we have known in many places, to have some kind of government that reaches the capital area, and to carry these infrastructures, which the State simply contains the task or the rural communities claim. We have quite a wide range of examples in which capital areas are divided into many rural areas, but some common capital adviser has taken two factors, one on the other part the organizational issues and the other, the other, the transport issues, as the two issues are so intertwined when urban areas are located in the second and the regional structure of the capital area has solved the organizational issue in the capital area. I feel that rural areas in the capital area are simply to be given the authority to do this and themselves to get the money to be made in this regard rather than the government's making those decisions for the people who live here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u80	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I find this very exciting speculation in his case, which is that in addition to the rest of the program, the program is even more a part of this field, which is the Union in the capital area. We only have one minute later, but I'd like to pray. Because he is quick to put his thoughts into words, to ponder briefly: What is it about transportation that helps to create an attractive and attractive capital area? Shall we push the city into the wood or outward? What makes a good city better by making transportation?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u81	A respectable president. I don't think there's any question about it that, of course, it's a human life that makes society attractive. Our problem here has been that human life has been too widely distributed. If Reykjavík were like a European city, the capital area, then all would be built here on this side of the Fos Solgs Valley and here on the Elder River, and all the people living in the entire vast capital area could simply live in the Nesina, that would have a tremendous impact on travel distances, time that people have to spend on various things, and the potential for promoting public transportation and a wide range of resources. That's the short answer. I believe, however, that technological development will have a major impact on the development of the urban environment over the years and will also give us a chance for new solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u82	A respectable president. Although it is in fashion these days to talk about the complexity of all things, especially when people have a fear of determination. This is not a complicated group of subjects if you stick to the fundamental principles that must, of course, be the basis for all the decision-making of transportation, I mean a social view, and a view that the transportation is the lifeblood of society. Based on these life - styles, the nourishment of communities, the communities, the countryside, the scattered settlements, and the capital's need. Service transport, population transport, resources, etc. Of course, walking is not just about roads; they are just about the cabins, i.e. Communications, Internet connections, possible communication. Like what? Hjörvar In our discussion of transportation and what it is that enables us to have a peaceful, good, positive environment, that is, human society and human relations. As a result, it is a political issue that should be with economic and welfare at any given time, but well - being is primarily based on the former. Therefore, it is very important that all decision-making be done professionally when it comes to sharing the tax and priorities of transport projects. What I would like to begin in my speech with, this second talk, is that in recent years I have felt a significant failure in the fact that there was a professional waste of transportation. Contract with other policies and plannings, all of these have been defined and when we accept a new transport strategy and read it, we often see that in the reporting and introductions, we are referred to edifications, parishions, rural unity, objective of the integration of regional administrative institutions and the inclusion of jobs and habitats, etc. We see these targets in words, but then in the implementation process, policy agendas are often of little value. Or how else would it be possible for an area such as e.g. For years, is the vest a child for transportation, not for years, but for decades and quarters of the century? This is because according to the professional priorities, the accepted methodology, which all agree to lay the basis for it, is not carried out. That is why transportation, such as. The animal tunnel, which is a crystal clear example of transport improvement, which is a matter of life for whole parts of the country, a matter of life for two structures on either side of the coming tunnel, a project to be the first to be performed after a tunnel plan was adopted toward the end of the turn of the century, is not yet realized, and is now entering an invitation, as important as it is. Other projects have been conducted in a series of order, projects that are valid in themselves, but they have only a completely different meaning and are, in fact, in other terms and, by all other reasons, established for them. This is a major concern, a respectable president, and unfortunately, it must claim that the transport program that we see here and we are two years into its duration, it remains for only two years from now, is extremely dull and in extremely close harmony with the policies proposed as the premise of the projects proposed. Considering the funds that are expected to be spent under this transport strategy, they are not even enough to finance the real road maintenance. They do not fulfill the amount of money the Roadmaker has given that it takes to maintain a decent road. As a result, more part of the Environment and Transport Committee has made a number of changes in the programme, a figure in my opinion that 22 changes are in the road program, nine changes to ports, and five suggestions in flying transport, a total of 11 billion dollars. in the next two years. In addition to the proposals of the greater part, the smaller part has provided a number of adjustments, including emphasis on one and another that seems to have been forgotten or ignored. It is not surprising that the National Parliament of Iceland has to agree, in fact, with all these changes, from the greater part and smaller parts, so it is not enough to agree on the need for this transport strategy; it must be done in order to achieve what is suggested, but it must, of course, give much more than it is expected. Everyone realizes that the need for transportation has probably never been more urgent than in these recent years when we are looking at the huge growth of tourists in the country with an associated traffic weight on all the roads of the country and especially in the vicinity of the capital. Things are bad for country everywhere, but as mentioned in my previous talk with this discussion, the parts of the country are still limited in transport, and the situation is the worst in the Northwestern district, as shown. In the Economics that appeared earlier in the summer, a special assessment of this was made, showing that transport conditions are worst in the West and West. That's where we come to what I started with, i.e. ............................................................................................... Of course, it is a great deal of justice that all parts of the country sit at the same transport level as those in general so that the parts of the country that have been sitting under the water for years and decades get some compensation and are temporarily replaced until the basic transportation system is completed so that it is acceptable in all parts of the country. It's just fair, fair requirement. It's not freckles. It's not much of a country. It is only a sound common sense that everyone must see as socially justified. The taxpayers in the neglected transport areas have paid the same for society as the citizens of other parts of the country, and the restoration is to be consistent with that. I'm glad that the less part of the environment and transport committees is making a significant effort in national and national barriers, there are projects that can be used throughout the country, but also contributes the less part to a significant increase in the budget for important projects in neglected parts of the country, e.g. In Aarnesfjords and southern Westfjords. [[The president calls.]] It is my sincere hope and joy that these suggestions will all be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u83	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólína, the Þorvarðardóttir Kjerúlf for her speech. I'd like to stop for a second. A senator spoke so well of, as well as of the man - made transportation, linking it with the situation in the Western world, where she knows a lot about it. She discussed how the integration with other policy measures would be good but would not be in practice and that professional viewpoints would be needed. I'd like to pray. A senator explaining how she sees that we can do this professionally. The locals know what needs to be put first in their part of the country and how they can be given a vision that without us going to a race here at the World Council of political or ideally linked to money, how we can get the money out in a fair and natural way, while also increasing the presence of the local people in that conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u84	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his excellent inquiry and comment. The answer to this is simply this: We now have good plans and policies where the services of areas have been calculated, housing development, population development, job development opportunities; where they have calculated what could be expected if they could unite areas and improve transport between them, increase their synergies, etc. The problem, however, is that this is not being carried out. For example, in this transport program and the last one, I believe that there could have been a much better connection to national parishion programmes where rural communities were involved in policy development, where the people of the country themselves could promote their views of where the fires were warmest and where the need was most needed. When I'm talking about professional work, I don't mean that some government officials figure it out cold and make decisions. I mean, I have to look at social views, for it is, of course, what this country is all about building and developing this country, regardless of where it is born and grew up, where people in other parts of the country have the possibility of dealing with people, of living and prospering in a society where employment life can grow up and develop; that they can attend studies, without being given the means of living in many countries because of the problems of transportation, such as in some Western countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u85	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It's fine. It's all right, because it may have been a little vague in my expression, that when it comes to professionalism, I didn't mean that the South experts should be professionals in it, but I was just wondering how it could be increased further to those who are the experts in the field. I think it's nice, though, to remind you of the road model in that context, it's very important to have the overall vision that's over the country. Thank you. A senator also mentioned a national parish program, for I think it was an exemplary device that sadly did not get to become what it could have been. This approach and tool should reinvigorate and put even greater power and strength in it. In the last seconds, I'd like to mention the climate only. We have often talked about the greater opportunities in Iceland to reduce transport emissions and transport energy exchange. I have at times felt that this discussion was directed to the capital area and that I would like to hear from the bottom. A senator with that. Where to begin and how can we build this up so that environmental transport will be not only something we can talk about here in the capital area but also on national level and just in the more scattered areas where I think people would also want to contribute to the reduction of emissions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u86	A respectable president. I agree with that. A senator that we should not underestimate the professional party, I think we agree on that. But let us not forget the type of road that is a professional person who is gathered with an enormous amount of knowledge and perspective, an overall vision. For a long time, the problem with our transportation may have been that all too little has been heard of the road and that it has not been able to communicate knowledge and policy well enough with politicians, which often are opportunistic. There has also been a problem. With regard to climate, it is absolutely true that reducing greenhouse gas emissions is urgent. The structure of the transport system is a key factor because much of the emissions are car waste, pollution from cars. It matters how a man of transportation is designed, whether he is designed to allow little pollution to be used, and whether the major means of transportation are being taken into the roads rather than the flight, train transport, tram. There are several ways to reduce pollution. To be honest, I've been really worried about this development here in Iceland over the last few years, how the road system's affected, this scattered road system. Heavy transport, construction of the sector, e.g. The effort in the fishing road to land fish and then drive them long distances for processing, etc. - The structure of the transportation system requires perspective and complete thinking that we could do more by cutting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u87	A respectable president. Hv. A senator spoke a lot of things about how all the plans had been made, how a tunnel plan had come, and how we had been trying to watch the big movie for a few years. But it seems that these plans never work. It is as if something in Icelandic society makes it possible that if we put in a plan, the next government will set up a new plan, so people actually work against one another all the time. I'd like to ask you why. A senator why. I'm considerably younger than what I am. A senator and she have been more observing the political bitch over the last few decades, since I haven't been able to do it myself, the nature of the case as well. Why is it that transport conflicts are always so great, about transport plans, about where to build roads? Why are communities fought together as to who should receive what? Why can't we just agree on some basic point of view as to what appears to be an acceptable road? Then, especially, I think about south of the West, where the roads are simply deathtraps. It's just good luck not to be more accidents there than it really is. Why is it that we can never look ahead, plan long-term? These are all our interests. It's not just a question of one structure. This isn't a question about Reykjavík to the countryside, it's not a question about the right or the left, it's about building this community up and we don't do it unless we have a proper road system. That's the basis for everything, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u88	A respectable president. Wasn't it the postuli Páll who said: "The good that I wish I do not do, and the evil that I don't wish to do, I do. It seems only in human nature to see what has to be done but can't do it. I blame part of Iceland for a shy political culture. Not many years ago, it appeared to us in a report by the General Commission, especially three terms for the lesions that can be applied to all our decision making. It's a lack of discipline, it's a decision escape, and it's a freckle. These are the lesions that we need to overcome as human beings and as politicians in order to make right and normal decisions in terms of public interest and social value before us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u89	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I wondered about the transport program whether there is really a need for much greater peace. Then I'm talking about a bigger interpolitic solidarity, like we saw. When it came to the foreign bill, the law of foreigners, there was a parapolitan committee where everyone was equal. It was not necessarily an attempt to extort some smaller part or smaller part of it, despite the power of more parts. I think I agree. A senator's reason why we have such a dirty, road system is because of this fragility, because of these connection between interest, for which it seems to have been so characteristic. I was amazed when the European Union came to our meeting, and it was discovered that because they had already come to know the situation elsewhere, they had a better understanding of the situation. They had needed more central consultations. They had seen the roads on the south side of the West, and they had experienced that we really have the same problems all over the world. But that understanding came completely independent of which groups were or which categories were included. They said: "Yes, there are certain things that we need to do. We need to fix the roads on the south side of the West. Even the person from East said so, and from Southland; yes, it's obvious that we have to fix the roads there. As we approach these basic systems, we need to approach them in greater peace and not push as much into a single road as we can. Rather, we need to do it a bit professional and on grounds where everyone is equal, make equal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u90	Madam President. I couldn't agree more. A candidate for a lack of discipline, perhaps at the root of a person's always getting out of his priorities, puts other things ahead of him. The reason is that the road system is often some kind of buttock, e.g. in that they need to expand and improve their consultation between parts of the country, between political parties, to ensure and create the working process somehow in such a way that they are already bound by the way the decision was made. At the present time, beautiful goals are written on paper, but no one considers himself committed to these same goals. This is the problem, and somehow you need to attach loyalty to your goals so that they can succeed. Like what? A senator rightly points out that all of them see this when they are faced with driving this road and destroying their car on the way out to the Cantregu of the ◯holun project called the road there. But while people only hear about it in the news, e.g. The inhabitants of Aarneshreps did not have full - year voyages in the winter without people experiencing it in themselves, and it is so easy to ignore them. So there is some way to establish a form of decision making in order to bind people to it, to oblige both governments and others to support the project and policy development in order to achieve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u91	Madam President. I'm sorry I wasn't quite available to jump into the platform. I had an unexpected disturbance in the hall. There are some things that I would still be interested in talking about a transport plan and actually miss the faintness of participation in non-named parties and particularly the executives in discussions about these important matters because, as a result, we have had nothing to do with the time but discussing the transport issues while making negotiations for the end of the council. First, I want to say that I think that good and easy transportation investments are usually, and practically I don't know any other example, one of the most profitable and best investments ever made in our community and even if more people were looking for them. It is simply few if anything that is as reliable as it is to produce many results, improve people's environment and circumstances, facilitates cultural interaction, create new opportunities and opportunities for employment, increases security, which is very likely to grow by making transportation easier and safer between remote areas or regions that run away from the central and important services such as the health system, and thus could be listed without an end. The benefits are so varied. Therefore, we need to be careful to evaluate the use of such projects, and we must be careful not to impose too narrow standards on them, since various indirect benefits, secondary benefits, and even immaterials that are difficult to measure are often so extreme. At least this is my experience with this case in the 1930's, and I know the story. True, this does not change the fact that during the past 30 years of travel, or almost without exception, there has been a tremendous effort and effort to take out the thresholds and obstacles of the transportation system to the environment. There was no lack of the civil war on the edge of the city. Something now got Halldór E. to hear it. It was just a district pool, they said, he's just thinking about Citynes. But what kind of key work is the City Bridge today? A key fortress and in the right place to shorten the road north and west from the capital area. It's the Vest. I guess I only remember that. I'm obliged. I can now remember the moments in the wake of being put in them, everyone going crazy that should be spending money in these tiny bodies west of the sea. How do you think it would be an attitude today on the north side of the West if there hadn't been a tunnel? It's bad luck they didn't come 10 or 20 years earlier. Vault tunnel. They didn't need it for the Haggis. I've been beaten to the point where I've been involved in other projects only if it's best to be the Temple tunnel. It was this way with the Halfground tunnel that more than half of the country's population were against them on polls. They did not end their efforts in writing on how unfashionable this would be. They're paying off now at the next loss, or so, and they could have been done if they hadn't dropped the register considerably. Of course, they are a key element, have yielded enormous national benefits with short - term time and traffic and less loss of energy use on cars and cars. The Rock's Strawway. There was a song about them and then the Wallahull tunnel today that many have found a great sport of being thrown out even if driving north would pay them themselves. But I am absolutely convinced that once they get to work and experience with them within a few years, everyone Lilja will want to make a decision. And this has been the case with all these controversial projects that usually relatively soon after we get into the process, we are surprised at how we survived without them before they arrived. In fact, it is as obvious as the Oyster Bridge back then, which connected the South Coast settlements and has since saved large funds in experimenting with fruitless ports in Stockholm and the Eye Bank was controversial, and some felt that it was not to come. That's how I could keep going. I think it would be good for us to think about this when we're talking about a transportation plan and we're reviewing the story. Of course, it is a huge task for a small nation in a small country to do all that their minds have to do in these respects. But it has to start. That's why it's a little intense that the current government has more and less wasted three years on nothing, and then we're gonna have to pick up the power after election. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u92	A respectable president. Where it is. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask has been living longer than I already have, I'd like to curious a little bit about why there seems to be an endless conflict and conflict in the road system. How so, as it has been observed among others. Councilmen, that it seems that there is never anything to be done about it? Much of the decision - making process has been made by some ballot, or at least it appears to be a preferred pool. Why is it that when we are making decisions on such important matters as the lifeline of the nation that our road system really needs to be, now 50, 60, 70 years after cars drove through the West, the roads there have not improved? Why is it that we cannot have a complete picture of how a sure way to look? I feel like people are talking on a cross. One government says this, and another fails, and in reality government exchange seems to be the worst thing that can happen to the road system. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, who has spent so long a long time at a council and has had a lot of experience with politics and who has been familiar with them: How does the road system always get political bitter? Why not dig a tunnel or build a bridge that costs something without being accused of unnatural behavior? Has it been too much in our culture that people are buying votes with roads or tunnels? Why is this? Why can't we do this in peace? So, what really is a standoff?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u93	Madam President. That's a very good question. Now I would like to have just more than two minutes to answer. You see, it is perturbing to review why it is as easy to label it when a person is struggling to get better on basic transport and finally succeeds when he is called everybody's bad names. People think it's very unfair when they've been waiting for a road across this mountain or a bridge over it for perhaps 10, 20, 30 years, and then finally it comes, it's a negative thing, so when you look at it from one side to the other, it's a good shot. I'm not going to deny that in the past, at times, there have been a lack of sufficient professional basis for setting priorities and suggestions on transport, but for the past 25 years at least they have really tried to get it done. When I was a minister of transportation a few years ago, maybe about .............. A senator was being born, and he was on his way to developing an integrated transport plan. In the past, these compartments were contained and totally separated from a road plan, a rejection plan, and aeroplane plan, and these systems did not communicate much. But this, of course, has something to do with it. It was a big improvement in having a comprehensive integrated transport strategy based on the current economic planning of transport. There's not much left of such politics. Usually, the order that comes out of the professional pathway is not easily mixed up. If so, whether to do more or to do less has been further disputed. I think, for example. Now the discussion is about to take a little bit more of this way than the other. I haven't marked it here in my discussion. Above all, it is human concern that the road system has become so sick that more is needed if we are to make up the relaxation that has become available and those who have become neglectful sins of the past years. [[The president calls.]] Hence, this conversation should not be so loud and timeless, but it is very vulnerable when they get the label votes and ballots, perhaps because such things were sometimes right in the old days. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u94	A respectable president. Yes, this is very interesting, at least It's good to hear that the work was getting better and the supposed ball was not as rich as it used to be. But then I understand correctly for answers. A senator that it is his experience that there is more community contract now that we are to be included, if you may say so, a healthy road system based on professional standards and specific safety issues that we would like to have in mind? That the transport program and the politicians behind it is just more about taxes, about how much taxes and fees we can justify putting into the road system? Now we can see that the cost to the road system has been greatly reduced by this government, which is pretty right - mindd, whether it plays something in. Or do we need to think more deeply about what we are paying taxes for? [[The president calls.]] Is this in the ground just a tax Catholic?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u95	Madam President. A little more on the topic discussion, let's just take the Vállah tunnel as an example. There is no need for those who promoted their attack on them to be called all names of evil. Just recently, the old gal came from what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, and that was the whole package. It was a ball of votes, and it was a vote, but it was said that you had been buying your place of council by promoting that project. But what is history? Ten, 15 - year - old struggle to get it done, the mass community's organization that this is an important project. A few rural societies have contributed a lot of money to the company, and the traffic is going to pay the tunnel with traffic, but it's still done. So it is not easy to keep. Of course, we need to deepen our discussion of the national importance of this group of languages and how terribly important it is for us as a nation who is going to live in a good modern society in the future to continue the firm structure of these provisions for society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u96	Madam President. Hv. A senator has long been a member of this complex, a former secretary of transportation. What has not been established in this transport program, and little is discussed in these days, the possibilities for coastal transport are: What I'm wondering in this context is what possibilities might be involved in the increasing flow of tourists in the country at this time and in the last few years. I'm sorry, knowing that, I don't have any idea if the situation is such that we could somehow try to direct the massive traffic of tourists on the highways of the country in some sort of passenger transport cruises such as Higgruten in Norway, which sails up and down the shore there in regular planning, and if it were not a chance for us Icelanders to look at the possibilities of making use of these materials to, the same way that was done in years before, moving the fishing route rather than the heavy transport road with the public and the stress of the highway system. This is one of the excerpts of this discussion, which is not given much attention to this date. I find it intriguing to hear thoughts of skunks. A senator on these subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u97	Madam President. There is exactly one good aspect of this case and an important factor that has taken place unfashionably, I think, with us Icelanders, who live on the shore around this island, where the urban cores all line up on the coast with harbors except a few who lie alone in the country. Yet, in the early 1990's, we were able to screw it up. Coastal cruises were more than 1990 driven by three parties, Kingdomships, and both Samer and Eimships, and all members lost. An attempt was made to bring men together for the business. It exploded, and the shipping companies had little interest in it. Then came a government who decided to lay down a Kingdomship, which is one of the greatest bad decisions I think has been taken for a long time, extremely foolish nationally. In spite of everything, it was not a large amount of money that would be needed to back it up to zero. It was a fairly good service, two freaks a week, on most ports around the country. Heavy - metal equipment and equipment were very much involved in these ships, as well as in some ways that residents used them to jump from place to place and that they could have built it up better. So I think it's realistic that a model can again be set on a model where modern ships, which are very quick to unsolve and train, a roll of ships, or with a small hand - slow container, with a short touch at every harbor, could stop there and be used by tourists to take the ring or part of the ring. How pleasant it would be to have such an experiment! In the time of the last government, a relatively good network around the country was set out to provide coastal cruises. The export data was complete and the advertisement was about to be published. What happened then? Then the shipping companies set out to say, "No, we're going to have a little cruise. [[The president calls.]] And the foundation broke down that the Kingdom would bring them out at the same time. But, of course, it is all too limited to serve at some of the largest ports, and it certainly is not what it would have to be, a good - looking beach cruise net.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u98	A respectable president. It is a bit tragic to participate in a discussion here on long-term planning that will not address such a major issue as this, which does not affect the growth in the transport of the country. It's pretty weird that we have such a projection without considering such factors as beach cruises, the effects of increased number of tourists on the highway system, traffic security, the possibility of beach cruises, the location of airports, etc., how we can have one of the other support for the road, e.g. how the international airport at a new location in the capital area, as well as the national airport, could serve the goal of increasing the distribution of tourists through the country. This is one example of how this process of transportation, although very positive changes have been proposed to try to save it, is actually lost.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u99	Mr. President. I think it's a good idea to take this case back, and I'll call it what it is. Because, unfortunately, he intends to leave us here at this meeting and not look for a reelection, not to forget this if I stay here today. Although there was nothing more to it than the greenhouse effect, the climate impacts, and Iceland's commitments to these topics, it's absolutely ideal to go over it. Can we not be effective, then, by contributing to the significant amount of heavy transport in the country today? Of course we can. Second, the roads are cut off. It is quite unmistakably clear that one explanation for the plight of the Icelandic road system today is all the heavy transport to the road. The big trains break down thousands of times to ten thousand times as much as a small car of people. More and less are being carried by large trains, large trucks with the largest type of rear cars. Then there's the live effect, the equation. [[The president calls.]] Men are quick to forget what it was like while a Kingdomship sailed. At that time, there was a currency that had an extended budget, so much of the country's cost of transport ran high. [[The president calls.]] Then, after its destruction, it was completely submerged.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u100	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for his excellent speech. I agree with him just because I was on the scene and can testify to the marvelous effects they have had on all the roads since then. We have now discussed a two - day transport program, and we in the smaller part agree that the market income stocks have not returned to the currently approved schedule for this proposal, which will hopefully be resolved tomorrow or next week. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask was not in the hall this morning when we were discussing other means of transportation. Then we even talked. Remuneration similar to that of a man who has been headed in the Haven Desert, which is a very successful private project. We discussed how it was important, of course, that such payoffs were on the way out of the city so that we could be equal in our currency. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon: Does he sees in addition to the fact that we continue to fight that market income stocks are turning into our country's road system, we take up more money from what we know today? I'm not asking the least of my questions in view of the fact that now a currency is now a very simple phenomenon and is just going through the phones we're all doing today, so it's not the complex design of the sheds or road showers. I would like to consider this option seriously in order to speed up some important adjustments. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Do I agree that we could go that way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u101	Madam President. At any rate, it's clear that we have a project to undergo, and it's been prior to a few years of reevaluation on the foundation of driving taxation because it's becoming a change and we want to contribute to changes where humans disappear from fossil fuel use and into environmentally friendly energy sources. As long as we're promoting this change, we're going to use environmental energy sources as well as buy savings cars. However, it is obvious that in time, we cannot always do so, forever just at the expense of the remaining ones, using gasoline or oil. The larger part of the vehicle fleet or traffic must gradually also begin to contribute to taxation in order to maintain the transport system. It is a natural view and natural approach that at the very foundation, we are going to have the cost of contributing to the road system, transportation. In that case, we need to push ourselves toward some form of taxation rather than gasoline, oil expenditures, heavy taxation, and so forth. Yes, I believe that the reconstituted route, which leads to a coordinated payment of certain key types, such as those in the Hafjörður tunnel, will be in the Valale-walk, and may be in three corners out of the capital area when highways of separate vehicles are in all directions. That way, people are paying extra for the benefits of driving on such a road. There's nothing unfair about that. Men save themselves by that time, and get extra security, etc. and it's okay for that round to pay a little extra. But third, I think that in the future, it will be considered to use electronic technology to lay some groundwork on the road taxation. Of course, certain personal protection needs to be solved, and we do not want a large brother to be observing exactly where we are at any given time, each one of us at every car. Of course, that can be done. And technology offers a measure of the taxation to that kind of user charge. Then it's just a measure of where you were driving, how long or how long it's gonna be, in some way, the anticoagulation process.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u102	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for his answer to my answer. I'm glad to hear that he agrees with these views. As mentioned in my talk earlier today, I was traveling through South Ruthia for the summer and even in the state we might expect to have a highly underdeveloped transport system. There was only one closer, a very good transport system. Drivers would pick up the phone and send a text to pay for roadtoll, so it has become widespread as far as I can next. I think we're really supposed to start looking at this because, as we've been doing today, our road system is a very bad one. In fact, we would have to add quite a bit just to keep it up, let alone build it up, or update it, as it were. There are a number of projects that are urgent, so I think we should, in fact, consider other means of financing the road system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u103	Madam President. Of course, I agree, always have been, that it is normal for traffic to make much of the investment in the transport system. It is more reasonable to believe that there is a basis for this, so those who use transportation systems drive on roads to pay the cost than those who, for example, do. Neither do they with their public taxpayers do so. Let us remember, though, that the government is getting huge tax returns from the road that is not marked. Thus, both the fuel charge and the oil charge are divided, in general and in particular. It's just part of an earmarked Vega fund and then the heavy tax. The government's getting all the worthwhile extra tax from the fuel sold. So, in practice, the state has much tax money from traffic and far beyond what is involved in the whole road system. In itself, it is not wrong if a person believes that it is economically wise and practical to do better in these matters to transfer taxes into direct transport projects. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u104	A respectable president. I'm just going to talk in my second speech about public transportation, which is very important. The agreement was made so that the city of Reykjavík, if I understand correctly, would actually be canceled because transportation would be performed in the capital area, but instead public transportation will be built up. This was and is, I think, of the good. It is important to try to reduce the pressure on the road system and to improve transportation in the capital area, though it is certainly a challenge. It has been suggested that funds go to the capital area on this project, but it is proper to remind them that the contrary was determined to wait on projects that would otherwise have had to be carried on. We've been building up a little bit of cities and towns out of the private car and out of the needs of the private car and seeing that it's not necessarily intelligent, but at the same time, it has to be arranged for the private car. I was very interesting that in Ljubljana, the capital of Slovenia, who was given me the European Union's environmental prize, the downtown town or a certain area was closed for traffic and built a five - story parking place on the edge of the downtown town. It's a considerable area. It is quiet, and people walk around, and those who have to travel are provided with small electric cars, so older people and those who have difficulty walking find themselves in the area. This is so far-fetched. It's a good weather there, but it's a big deal to experience, and it's really fascinating to us when we're abroad, to be somewhere, and not with our private car inside. Then we're ready to walk, and we don't think it's an occasion, but then we're so eager to jump into the car and use it to get on our way when we could really walk and even walk. I own a car against another person, and when I have the car, the tendency is to use it very strong. Then I find out when I don't have my car that I can get a lot out by walking or riding a bicycle or bus. No doubt, all of us could do something to reduce the stress caused by the private car and thus reduce the malaria in cities and towns because that is not necessarily the most beautiful part. But I agree with the view that we need parking. You can't expect people to walk long distances. I understand the concern of merchants, but we don't have to park in the store. Sometimes it's as if they're too afraid of it. But I do think, for example. The parking garages around the Lush Road in downtown Reykjavík were absolutely brilliant. It is not unusual for us to pay to keep our car somewhere. Speaking of parking lots and paying for them, I think it's special, too, when we get all these tourists here, and we have to build wood, make lots of cars, and step, and other things around our natural bulbs, that we should be reluctant to charge for the parking lot. It is relatively simple, and it may be useful to build up. That's how it is from abroad. You don't necessarily go on your own and park your car for free where you want to, you pay for it. These are ideas that were tore up with the natural pass when we talked about how we could tax people. In fact, internal flights and air transport are mentioned in the transport program as well as in spreading the stress, spreading more of the country's outlets to tourists. I think it's good news now that Iceland's Air Force is going to try to fly straight out of Keflavík North, I don't really know if they're going north, east and west on this flight, but it's worth the experiment. I've met people twice recently, foreigners who have come to Iceland and are obsessed with Iceland and when I ask if they probably haven't come to Akureyri then they say, "No I came to winter, I'm naturally unable. Is there anything you can do to get to the north? You say, "I don't live in Svalbard. I can't. But this is the feeling people get. It may not be strange for people to think that if they go outside the capital area, now don't talk about if they go north, they'll get into a hell of a lot of trouble, maybe looking at the impenetrables where they were all trapped and all trapped, but then they showed the photos from the capital a whole different way. So it's not necessarily strange. However, there the domestic flight can be very strong because people, according to their nature, do not rely on driving in winter, but it could take flights. Another important thing to me is that we take a real look at whether international flights are practical from Akureyri or from Egress where there are international airports and there's always something about a straight flight from that airport. That would be extremely important. I'm glad the government put funds in aeroplane development fund so that they can be fully explored. But as we have access to them, there are things to be assured, such as that aircraft fuel is no more expensive when it is purchased on the land. I believe in the matter of the council here, which is a very good matter. It has only been discussed about the funding we need to put in the air travel system to a much greater extent. I think more things and smaller things agree that we'd like to put more money on road construction, maintenance, new projects, and build up our roads, take on one-bordered bridges, wipe them out on highway 1 and so forth. But where that income should come from is another matter. Hv. A senator who spoke before me spoke of the route in many places that people actually pay taxes for where they drive. This we know from abroad and from such a roadside, that we need to go through a side. It's never a pleasure to pay more taxes, but I think this is simply not a question of whether we want to put more money in it, we have to do it, and then we also have to be ready to collect taxes in order to live up to the structure. Of course, the simplest increase in fossil fuels and ensures that the balance of income increases in accordance with prices that have not yet been done, when there were really all opportunities to do so, in view of the low global market value of fuel, oil. Sadly, that was not done. As I did not tire of pointing to them, this government also decided to place 80 billion people in debt. There are a lot of billions of people I would have liked to have used for many other projects rather than hand them out in a random way to people who had many things to do with the money.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u105	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you for a second. A senator for the international flight. She came into it in her case. Home - to - earth flights are of utmost importance to us as a nation to link parts of the country and to cooperate with the services that have been gathering more and more into the capital area, as well as to use us for tourism and for people to travel around the country without necessarily needing to be present in the capital. It's Iceland's airline now, from what I hear, about to start an experiment, i.e. To fly straight from Cheflavík to Akureyri. Counts 'em out. A senator that will be included in the discussion that has been very hot over the years regarding the location of the NYU airport? Just away from that discussion, you know. A senator could not have set off much earlier by offering a flight directly from Cheflavík to the largest international site and by opening his way for travel agencies? Of course, the product needs an offer, so it sells. It would then be an option for the vast number of tourists who are interested in visiting us, and don't seem to have diminished their interest, flying to the parts of the country that have a good airport, and using the Bombardiers, whether they're bigger or smaller. These are places like Isafjörður, Akureyri, Eglish Places, and Cape of the Hornfjord. Would it not have been to do so long ago, and should it not have been done in other places to leave Chefavík and go to shore?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u106	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. I'm very excited to see how this experiment works. But I imagine that the prerequisite for this to be practical and valid is that a certain number of tourists exist. We are now looking up such an increase as so many tourists that we have actually begun to see if international flights are practical on the ground as well as on Keflavík Airport and as they are spreading their tourists directly from Chefavík to shore. If it works well, I hope that people look to other destinations. I experience that we are actually overexploiting some areas and that we work on others when it comes to tourism. I was on the east the other day, in the Valley of Breed, and in the South. I said, "Why isn't everyone here? What are people doing somewhere? Of course, what people are looking for is different, but if people are really looking for nature, then, for example, it is. East just great, and really the whole country, the Westerners, the Northern Land, and I don't talk about the southeast corner. No matter where you step down, sometimes I feel sorry for how little we can spread tourists out of the country but just over the blues. This is very exciting. I can't wait to see how it turns out. But I imagine that since Iceland's airline decides to go on this right now, it's because they think there are enough people who want to take advantage of this. They will likely also have a kappacitet to advertise the voyages, and this will be of benefit to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u107	Mr. President. Yeah, it's a question of whether it's around, the egg, or the chicken. This option has not been available and has not been tested. All of this needs to be prepared, and if these travel packages were available in advance, it would be clear if the flight could meet that need. I think it's just very exciting, and it'd be to promote whole-time service in many places and that tourists could look at all the natural spheres that Iceland has to offer. Only in terms of the financing of transport in the country. Although tourism has been reported to produce some 70 billion dollars in the state box and even though only 11% of the sector's worth tax, which is less than the average amount of employment, it is enormously large. So it must be looked to in general how to finance transport in the country. It is now more a political decision and a matter of priorities that the funds have not been implemented because of a large increase in tourism. Regarding public finances, it has been discussed that there should be no markets for income, as has been the case with road construction in the country. I just want to hear a little bit of attitude. A senator with regard to the changes she makes in that regard. Of course, cars are changing about energy exchanges, hybrids, electric cars and so that will not apply all traffic. We need to look to other aspects of making donations for the road.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u108	A respectable president. In terms of the energy exchange, as we do today, we are walking around 1/62%, reaching 1%, of the automobile fleet today for electricity or assessments, ecosystems are as I call them, and do not pay these spells. At some point when we are up to 20 or 30% in that material, of course, it's not working. But there's a pretty long way in it, so I would say that with funding the system, it's the first step to raise fuel costs or budgets for fuels, fossil fuels, which is also a procedure aimed at reducing CO2 emissions, so it's just a spontaneous operation, I think. If we do not, when there is a minimum oil price, when will we do so? There is a loss of significant income, but it does not make any difference that we will still collect taxes that are not earmarked. Of course, it's just a political decision what we put in the road, and they'll be able to see how much they'll pay in the state funds, and that's what's divided again. Today, it's really that way, like what's-his-face. A senator knows that only a part of this money is due to transportation because of the pressures on cars and others. He just goes to the hotel and into something other than transportation. It is, in itself, a political decision. It's gonna be like that all over the commercial income markets. But we will always be able to see how much we get from the fuel charge or the oil charge or the car charge or what it is. Besides, it's only a political decision how much we're going to put into the transportation system. But I think it's essential that we add more tax. I'm more in favour of taxing gasoline and oil instead of getting into some kind of system where you pay to drive after a certain road rat. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u109	V.E.G. President. We still discuss a proposal for a 4-year transport strategy, as noted, in fact, to be just over a two-year transport program at the end of the day. However, the discussion has said the importance of transport in general, pointing out that transport is, of course, a measure of the community's lifeline, since it is transport that we associate with different places, which vary from one side to another. This is to be photographed in the members of my committee party. The environment and transport committees, showing that with increased cooperation between rural unions in employment and service, culture and education, the need for strong regional roads is increasing. It also shows the importance of looking more closely to the soil and becoming more important in all regional planning and economic development, not to mention the safety issues. A smaller section of the Committee also suggests that when large transport projects are assessed and prepared, their influence on the sex status is appreciated. I think it's very important that we say so, but I would like to point out that there are other factors that are important when considering transport. Because it is only a few days ago at the Council agreed votes by validating the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People, I would like to agree with the transport and transport programmes. I have not been able to sense that there is anywhere in this transport program to discuss transport in any place in that light. I searched the transport program for 2015-226 ago, and I found no mention of transportation in connection with the need for the disabled as well. Transport may be said to be one major bioavailability issue. You may see the best in the 9th. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled persons discussing access simply says that Member States need to take appropriate measures so that disabled persons can live independent lives and share fully in human life. These measures should provide disabled people with access just as much as others can to form the material environment and also to transport. It is noted that the measures included include: In removing barriers and barriers that inhibit access, we should also reach buildings, transportation, and other facilities within and outside. This is of utmost importance in planning plans, in planning, in design, and in the way of thinking, it reaches everyone in the community, and in this respect the term is an enormously important design. Two. The agreement on the rights of disabled persons is discussed on definitions. It defines the absolute design, which is defined as this, by permission of the highestv. President: ▪ Absolute design means production products, environment, plans, and services that everyone can use to the extent that the circumstances allow, without the need for any special output or design. This is so important to keep in mind when it comes to transportation and planning there because it is everywhere in the community. It turns to design and deportation so that people - whether motorized or blind - can make it as easy as possible. This should be taken into account in terrestrial conditions e.g. It is relevant to all of their designs that there is safety and everything in it so that everyone is disposed of from the movement of the people. This is also a turning point for all to be able to see away from their physical condition. There is a change in motion from what? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason's design in the Western Islands is important to her use of everyone. This is also linked to public transportation, which makes mention of cooperation with rural society in designing light trains and fast cars. They need to think that this rotten vessel will be useful to disabled people as well. All of us are familiar with the recent discussions about the travel services of disabled people. It has proved true that it is not a fast service; it has just been critical of the inefficientness of that service and how much time it takes for people to get in place. Like the community of everyone else in the community, the community of disabled persons is based on social mobility. We have been, and we are way too used to think about the affairs of disabled people in a separate box. I think we need to learn to think about in all government strategy that plans are made to actually reach everyone and care for everyone's needs from the beginning. This is true, as in the case of household access, it is far more expensive to change the structure or plans that have been adopted, build and organize, than to think about the initial availability of everyone. I wanted it to be part of the discussion. In order for a transport plan to become useful, and in order to achieve some flight of disabled people's rights, there is always a need to think about this in context. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u110	A respectable president. I hereby recommend the absence of Minister of the Interior for a bill to change the law of the intermediate level organisation. May 26th. The Allied Council approved two law-employed cables that established an intermediate level in Iceland. On one hand, there is a new total law on courts and on the other, a law on civil treatment and the treatment of criminal matters. Take the above law into force on 1 January 2018. The law has a significant improvement in the legal system designed to support its security and its security and to include the most important in the establishment of an intermediate level here in the country so that the Court's judgment will be done in the latter three part of the district, the National Court and the Supreme Court. The agreement of the above laws calls for a change in a number of law columns. Although the major steps have already been taken with the approved new legal laws and related changes in the handling of private matters and the handling of criminal laws, there are many other laws that are less than or more bound to the legal system and that the new legislation must be adjusted. More and more significant changes are needed, but the most important ones are subject to lawsuits between courts, especially in the full rights of law, and legal lawsuits. This bill is prepared and submitted in order to adapt existing legislation to the proposed changes to the Icelandic legal system and is submitted directly to the laws of the Council of 26 May 2016. V.E.G. President. I will now step in to key points involved in the subject and emphasis of the bill. First of all, adjustments to law code 78. law on the change of civil and criminal treatment laws, interjugation levels adopted at the Council of May 26 of May. In accordance with regulations such as these, they now do not accept laws that are not completed but that have already been given orally to the Supreme Court at their receipt. At the same time, it is stated that the cases of appeals or cases have been filed to the Supreme Court for the execution of the law should be carried out in the land's courts. In closer analysis, the Ministry assessment, taken from those who have been consulted on the subject, is more practical if the exact opposite procedure is being carried out, i.e. that the Supreme Court will complete the treatment of the cases that have been sent to him during the implementation of the law and that the same value if appeal has been reported or appeal has been applied. With that arrangement, it's at least working. Two things: One will be avoided: When the Court takes up the course of the court, there will be a number of problems that will soon have to be closed. This again allows the Court's judges sufficient room to set themselves up for a new job and prepare for the operation of the court. However, this ensures that the case ends with the same standard of justice as it was when it began, which may have avoided complex problems related to legal regulations and legal divorce. Second, a change to current courts is proposed to ensure that the 42 judges and 10 judges of the Supreme Court will remain until the implementation of new courts on January 1, 2018. In 2009, the number of judges in the province was temporarily increased from 38 to 43 because of the pressures on the courts, which was extended three times, last in 2014. This source, however, fell down through the past few years, and under current law, no longer shall be reassigned to a local judge until the need for judges to become 38. There are judges in the province now 42. In 2011 there was an increase in the number of Supreme Court judges by three, i.e. Nine to twelve. This was done in a way that since January 1, 2013, the appointment of the judges to release the nine judges was not to be made up of that date in February 2014. In view of much pressure on the court, the Allied Council adopted law No. 37/2015 resurgence with the Supreme Court temporarily increasing, this time from nine to ten, according to that authority released in 2016. The reason for suggesting that this temporary increase in the number of judges be extended to the implementation of a new court law is primarily that a decision made on December 17, 2015, by a panel of judges' salary and remuneration, with a marked change in the court's rights to ongoing education and education. Up to that time, judges applied for reeducation in the reeducation fund of judges and district attorneys, but by the decision a change was made that a judge is now entitled to a four - year course to be re-educed, first after four years of employment, and by a judge's contract every three weeks per year. It is not unusual to conclude that when the above changes led to the decision of the Council of Elders will be fully carried out, it will usually take four to five District Courts on course and one Supreme Court judge. This will be the same as with a brief sentence in a judge's office, or with the same number of judges today. Some recent losses have been criticized by a judge's office, and in this regard it has been noted that such an arrangement is of concern to the principles of the independence of judges and courts. Then it takes time for a new judge to get into his work and the court environment with its pressures. For a short time, a judge's appointment did not always use the courts in this regard, as a result of the nature of judicial action that a judge for a short period of time has a limited chance of winning the job and running matters from start to end. In addition, it is clear that those who are appointed as judges thereby gain experience because of a small advantage over others who intend to apply for an order to a judge advertised for application. Finally, there is the possibility that a judge's sentence in office may be delayed, ending the procedure in particular when a job is advertised publicly for an application. Some judges have thus been appointed for a shorter period of time, but an eye route suggests that such a situation may not be sufficiently useful to the court of that court. In terms of extension of the number of judges to the Supreme Court, it is preferably a motion to include those whom I previously referred to as being of the change in law, but it is important that if it becomes legal, it will be ensured that on January 1, 2018, a sufficient number of judges in the Supreme Court will quickly complete those matters that will be treated there at that time. Third, there are suggestions for changing the legal requirements for legal rights. Is in this subject based on proposals approved at Iceland's Social Meeting. It is suggested that, in most of the conditions currently applicable to the development of lawsuits for the Supreme Court, it is clear that most cases of appeal will be completed in the new court. However, changes are proposed. It is thus assumed that a reduction in the number of cases a lawyer must have brought to the local courts to gain rights for the National Court, but now it is valid for the acquisition of the Supreme Court's legal rights. If a lawyer had to speak orally, 25 cases rather than 30 cases today. However, the number of personal matters is increased from 10 to 15. It is then suggested that if a lawyer can obtain a legal rights at that court, he must give four more test cases to the National Court. However, it is not expected that oral presentation would require other conditions in order to qualify for a test case. It compromises what is now valid for the acquisition of the court of justice for the Supreme Court, but it has been difficult for lawyers to obtain testing for transport because of the few cases judged by five or seven judges. So a lawyer can gain a court language rights for the Supreme Court is suggested in the bill that he should have had legal rights for the National Court for three years and that he would have performed no less than 15 oral cases, of which at least 10 private matters. However, it is not expected that a lawyer would have to present a special test case to the Supreme Court. Rather, he will be granted the right to a lawsuit to meet the above conditions and other legal requirements. Fourth, adjustments and improvements are provided in the provision of a number of special laws, especially in the realm of full - time rights involving lawsuits between courts. Is it the same as the law, which was accepted in ours, changed the terms of private and legal handling, No. 49/2016, for instance, to set up the standards for a special hearing or a chance to request permission of the Supreme Court to bring charges to the Supreme Court. In the specialties considered suitable for the final judgment of the Supreme Court, it was beginning to have the authority well expressed in general. Thus it is stated that it is possible to request the Supreme Court's permission to sue the court in a judicial hearing under the stated law that includes a final decision on the issue of conflict. Fifth, adjustment of the provisional laws of new courts is proposed to ensure that there is sufficient room for the preparation of the new level of decision, national rights, as well as the judicial court. The changes are made primarily practical. The most important change proposed by the U.S. president of the United States to be appointed and started full six months before the start of the court's work, on July 1, 2017. Is this change necessary to make sure that the president has sufficient time and space to prepare for the new court's operation. Changes other than those mentioned here are minor and are primarily involved in legal harmony. V.E.G. President. Here I have explained the key elements of this bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-06-165.u111	A respectable president. I recommend here on behalf of the welfare committee for a bill to correct the change in the law of general apartments, it's a bill that has to do with the founding position. I'll do it in the absence of the Chairman of the Committee. As shown in a bill report, this is presented in accordance with IV regulations for temporary purposes by law No. 52/2016 about the general packaging and is suggested for 4 mg. Section 15. The law will be removed, but in its place, there will be two new articles that will support the establishment of a local body and, on the other hand, the establishment of non-profit organisations. The changes aim to ensure that auto-reliance institutions and communities that are owned by rural society and are subject to the law can have the same economy as the provision of stocks provided for housing institutions, i.e. conditional stock/party share in apartments. Code four. Section 15. A valid law was laid down to propose the welfare committee, which suggested that the law be added between 2 and 3. ... abouta bill that became the law of a general apartment earlier. An Committee noted that the Common Union of Iceland, Reykjavíkurburg, and the European Union, together with the Ministry of Health, suggested that the Committee suggest that the legal entity (s) should be made up of nonsaltitutors (U.S. When it came for reimbursement, the funds would be cashed by the release of a bond. By doing so, contributions are considered to be self-imbursed by housing institutions, but they could also be made by rural communities. About 4 mg. Section 15. it states in the opinion of the Committee that it contains rural and legislators authorized to bring comparable institutions of state and rural society according to the further implementation of Regulation. According to one authority, it may be necessary to change other laws in order to reach the meaning of the paragraph, but it does not make clear what adjustments must be made. So the committee suggested that provisional regulations be added to the laws where a minister was assigned to prepare proposals for adjustment if necessary. After the accordion of the law, it was found that it was not possible to implement a 4. Section 15. Rather, it would be necessary to make adjustments in the law in order to achieve the purpose of the law. The bill is therefore submitted to make necessary changes in the regulations of the laws of general apartments so that rural and legislators entirely owned by rural communities, legislators active in the implementation of the law and met the requirements for borrowing from the Substitution Fund, in accordance with the established housing laws, and those who have received special permission of the Ministers to obtain legislation are permitted to bring stocks to state and rural society as stocks to members of their own population, which were entitled to stock or as property property. The case was employed in some parts of the Ministry and sought ways to recommend that parts and private partnerships could enjoy comparable economic policies. The result was that similar changes could not be made in partnerships and private partnerships as well as values for automatons could not be measured. It is possible to recommend that those who make a donation become part of the apartment but not willing to do so in the State. The reason for the development of stocks in partnerships and private partners is that when stock production is given, the company has been established and paid for its parts. To make it possible to move stocks as stocks, an increase in the share amount of the company, e.g. to produce a special stock group, which would then be entitled to other rights than conventional stocks. It will not be easy to predict this in law, as the following report says, so the decision was made not to change the social issues. This was done in consultation with the Department of Employment and Development, whose experts agreed on the results of the Ministry of Health. It is suggested that memberships be set up as law on partnerships, No. 2/1995, depending on incidents, it can be said that the strain would be set up as a special stock Party according to law. Within the framework of the law, it can be stated that this class has privileges and responsibilities other than traditional items and that the Society is required to buy the item again after a certain period of time and that the price is bound to a certain proportion of certain real estates. This is the case like it's towed into a paper with the bill, a respectable president. Then I'll finish my case.
