ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u1	President. A health minister on the shape of policy to minimize the harmful consequences of drug abuse has resulted, and in a conversation with Station 2 yesterday the chairman told the Commission that the result was a significant change in drug practices. And who is she? Yes, the main suggestion is, not to carry drugs, but to fines. A respectable president. This has not been the case here, people have not been thrown into prison just for carrying doses of drugs. The task force, of course, knows this, but it suggests that laws will be adjusted to fit how they have been carried out. So here there is no real change, unless there is an even greater emphasis on the guilt. But you shouldn't fine people like me who choose alcohol as their own drug, just the others who choose different drugs. Then there is much talk of damage in these suggestions, but it is forgotten to explain how the fines of drug addicts, how fines are involved in damaging and ideologies to help out of the world of addiction. It is also noteworthy that a representative of the commission general does not trust to vote with these suggestions, which some consider to be a major step in the right direction. Why is that? Because, by permission of the President, the role of the committee was to provide a comprehensive policy, which highlights the humane approach and the protection of human rights. Therefore, I would like to know how a representative of the State Marshal could be opposed. By being opposed, he must directly counter the purpose and main role of the group, not unless this police representative wanted to go further and legalize other drugs, as alcohol does. If so, I could understand it and agree that it is morning to see that drug users do not get sober or to improve citizens with negative motives from the State. [[The president calls.]] There's basic preventive measures and assistance to be used at all times. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u2	A respectable president. It is clear during the conference here at the Council that elections are at hand. Many members of the Parliament are impressed by the lack of financial support and threaten to increase the cost so much that the health system or other things that need to be improved will be improved. Just looking at the shipping sales to see that elections are at hand, since rarely more small sales have been made for sale. I can't believe that any senators on Christmas want to be built up here, from subsized boats to trawlers, realize what a negative debate on the family design of seagulls, or what names they might use, can have on these better - known deforestations. As we saw more unsurpassed reports for elections, the singles who are filled with fear of job security and survival and selling are growing. Who's buying? It's the big ones. Much has been discussed recently about an auction route, as was the case with the Faeroes. What was the outcome? A small number of companies purchased that were more or less owned by foreigners. Is that what we want? Where does the marketism end? Let's try to imagine what the outcome will be in this country. Who's here to buy? Will it be the small family companies, the dictators, or maybe just the big companies that are more and less owned by pensions and big investors? What is the nature of the market? It's the strong ones who buy. What happens to those who cannot? Does he wait for his boat for a year or more and hope that it will be next? Who can afford it? Is it the monarch who has no other income or the big one who has more income routes? How often does the big one need to buy so that the little one won't compete for fishing? Let's talk clearly, but not in deception. It is a political decision if we want to reduce the number of particles in development and have few large fishing companies that can no doubt pay a considerably higher catch. Seafood companies have been given their own suggestions and have a good performance. [[The president calls.]] Do we want to see them develop in the bullfish?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u3	A respectable president. Lately, it has been heard to believe that the competitive place in the media market is inconsistency, unfair, and prevents personal media, which most or all of us have to rely on advertising incomes, and thus contribute to their role as it should. I agree with that view. There is, however, one thing to keep in mind. If we are going to take the company out of a commercial market or to reduce the company's income by a billion or more, we need to answer the question, How and how to compensate for the income. Do you want to increase your donations from a wealth of money or reduce your service? This is a key question to answer. No one - sided decision can be made to change a VUSA VAT without deciding its future in the process. If you are a regular driver, the small media is heavy, and you must support and strengthen them. The media is one of the cornerstones of democracies and democratic debates in society. It is our duty to nurture these media, although only to make sure that most of the voices are heard in the public talk. However, the operation of taking the Kingdom News out of a commercial market with a single pen mark is not necessarily helpful enough. It's, for example. advertisements may not be evenly ads of all other media. The smallest ones may be left out. Another possibility is that the price file of the MRV will be raised substantially to give others on this market more space for action. There is too little difference in the price of advertising, which often leads to adversaries choosing VOLV. Finally, I would like to mention the possibility of putting a roof on the advertising revenues of RUS. Today, the income is about 2.2 billion a year. This amount could be placed in place for example. 1.5 billion a year, and that amount may gradually fall. Then the company would have to temporarily compensate for this loss of income. This is a discussion we must take in connection with the future of Our Kingdom News.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u4	A respectable president. The rural communities are an important source of basic services. There is an allegorization of a bill that corrects their share in a government trade and rural society after being in here for nearly a year and appeared in 2015 from the highest level. Minister of state. The rural population was to be improved by the special delivery route of some 4.8 billion dollars. The rural communities have since collapse, most if not all, had to cut down into an important basic service, and particularly today larger rural communities have a very narrow cut. It is important that rural society's basic services do not put up with the fact that the International Parliament is not being handled with a case that ensures greater income in accordance with government contracts and rural societys have already made. Such agreements must be followed, and the Allied Council must not be on hand in creating rural communities the permanence of conditions established by the government and the rural communities. The topic of the rural society and the basic services that concern each country's home, and I emphasize that the frame they are tailored to be elevated above the sectal bitch and above the hostage situation in the council committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u5	V.E.G. President. As elections get closer, natural tension and political tremors increase. We discussed this in a public discussion at the General Assembly yesterday on the provision of goods and livestock agreements. Despite all of this, I felt that this discussion was extremely good and objective and that it will not be taken on any further picture as we continue to discuss that subject and later the customs agreement. This level of excitement is crystal crystal in the political question of how many issues and what cases the council should complete, and it is important to complete, or above, reason to complete, before the council is finished, we will finish the political battle and the people will choose their representatives. A respectable president. Of course, I'd like this one to be the highest. Government's the longest. Her work speaks for itself, but first and last, it's the highest. Governments are concerned with completing their covenant and praising their people. This has certainly been done by the forwarding and independent groups and is interested in completing their task. There is reason to point out here every act of this highest power. Governments have been because the big picture is very practical. Of course, we are in a race for time, but that is not always the case. Despite unusual circumstances with shorter terms, so far, tops have been present. Mr. President, I must say, in good cooperation with members of the council, with the government and anticoagulation, which I also want to commend, there are no reasons for this, but to think that we will be doing this with dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u6	V.E.G. President. The main meeting of the Communicator Association was conducted yesterday. There, proposals were adopted by a overwhelming majority of the votes of about 20 members of the company. It is only necessary now to take action. The ideas discussed at the council yesterday were many of the most interesting. So I have asked to have a special discussion with the Supreme Court. The secretary of the budget and the secretary of the economy on the matter, and I really hope that the discussion will take place as soon as possible. However, there was something else I wanted to discuss today. Today, there are reports of a dramatic increase in traffic in the Hagular tunnel for the remainder of this year. This is in harmony with the experiences of people who drive this route through the West Road and many of them every day. Much heavy traffic comes from the rural communities that lie close to the Hagland tunnel on the north, but as noted recently, some 2,000 cars drive that way every day from those rural communities. It is, in fact, there. are talking about people who go to work and school in the capital. These people pay quite a bit of travel to get to and from work or school. It is safe to say that many find this cost unfair, since it is the only way out of the currency capital. All of us realize that the speed of traffic has become high in the Haven, the West, and it will soon be necessary to make improvements in these roads. In addition, there's been a discussion of a planned Daffi track that will hopefully become reality within some years, and I believe it will be a major means of transport to the area. In this context, I would like to mention a pact proposal made at the council on October 5, 2015. It was about those taxable men who have to pay high costs for travel to and from work to pay off income tax. I believe that the arrangement laid out by the proposal, i.e. setting up a tax charge on travel to and from work may be a step toward strengthening jobs in many countries as well as a positive value for people who have to pay a considerable amount to get to and from work or to school. I really hope that this proposal is going to work out, that would be a big step forward. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u7	V.E.G. President. One of the extra products of which the business banks were presented to demands was that 3% of the property in Iceland's Lands Bank was handed over to employees. [[Up front.]] In other words, this is a contribution. paritaprevir The Stingrimur J.S., the son of Sigfússon, to the J.'s Nest, to use his own words. This 3% gang has since ruled the Bank of Lands despite this small property and the people on this bank have had no opportunity to influence its operation or its way. How has this crystal become? This has even been true. Most crystals are found in the possession of the State of City that was sold to the first man who knocked on the door with tragic consequences that have then crystalned. This has also been shown that there is no end to the matter. It has now been found that there seems to be some secret mission between the Lands Bank and the owners of pay. As a result of recent reports that Iceland's Landsbank sold a local home in the capital area to one of the key operators on the price previously offered by the Landsbankman, i.e. The bank had received an offer to this estate a month earlier and sold it a month later to the key manager at Paying for a lower price. I must ask, How long will this matter take to go on without the SEC doing anything? How long will this case take place without the notice of any elected members of the Council? How long do people sitting in the shelter of 3% property and polterge, the excuse, have on the people whose property is this in the bank? It's time to clear out this bank government, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u8	V.E.G. President. To say the least of them, it's a very painful time. The situation related to construction in what has been called Backwork is very poor. It is now obvious that the structure and processes that have been involved for years are in danger. It is an 80 billion in investments that are being compromised by the charges of charges. I would think that this is damaging because social interests are enormous, and many depend heavily on them. There's been a record of working under all the rules at all levels of the case. Societys involved in the case have worked according to organizational requirements, and all of them have a major organization in effect. Those on charges may not have realized the consequences of these actions as a test case to the future. If so, this is out of place and will not be allowed to enter the final part of this project for future vision in the treatment of events. A law on lava that has special protection has been in force since 1999 and the strangest thing to do now is to overthrow anything that has been done on the foundation of new laws. In fact, this case is about a short line law for Firebound. Keep in mind that the city's neighboring group has been broken by fire, and we need to look beyond the neighboring group of the capital to see it. Does it matter where the land is being carried out? Does it matter who doesn't know? This project has been carried out in broad harmony and political solidarity up to this point. It is not surprising, then, that the local people are shocked and even sadly sad when some members of the council rejoice that action is being made in turmoil and that man is facing great losses. It's time to end. We need to find a way out of this situation and bring these matters into the process that we can work on a wide variety of agreements for the future and that we do not lose our credibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u9	A respectable president. The cost of super-employment is up again with full weight, and given the reason for what to do when approved for financial companies who have billions of dollars in a society where children's families, low-payers, elderly people, and desperate workers hardly fit or possess them. What kind of society is such inexorable? We cannot as a moral society accept the madness that men who have the main occupation of gathering property from people and businesses for the commission of a worker should receive the bonus of ten times a year's wage. Government officials have now reported in the media that it is impossible for the legislatator to influence this and that it is not possible to decide when a person does something that is considered undesirable, since it does not defend public interests, as it is said. I would like to object to this view which has been made public because it is a matter of public interest, and it is the role of the legislature to set a law code on universal conditions to ensure peace and harmony in society. Superpayers are a challenge to general well - being. They promote wolfish and hard work conflicts, undermine social harmony, and have been objected to by the labour market, public, members of Congress, and others. It would be wish that this workplace could take its place seriously as a lawgiver and remain uncontaminated about this incorruption by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u10	A respectable president. First, a few words about the supernovas. They are shameful and do not conform to the values of civilized society. Are we really not going to learn anything from the discarded words of the former Morning editors, Styrmir Gunnarsson's son, in the General's study report, where he said: It's a disgusting society, it's all disgusting. There's no prince's finger, there's no ideal, there's nothing. It's just opportunism, power fight. I refuse to live in such a society. On the other hand, our community is important, but it is a proposal for action that has been proposed in which 25 members of each body of its members wish to have a national agreement on an airfield agreement in the Hydromur. I hope this case will be discussed as a matter of general interest, first of all. I also welcome the entrance of Ólöf Nordal to the case yesterday with a letter she sent to the mayor. Just so people can understand what we're talking about on a very important subject, I've got some facts about a BS flight to nursing since 2014. We've had 500 medical flights a year and 100 helicopters in Iceland. 20% of them are called priority flights where life is at hand. The age of patients ranges from newborn babies to those aged 95 years. Most of them are Akureyri flights. Next come the Western Islands. Patients are usually transported to the south for cardiovascular reasons or serious trauma. From the results of this report, it can be concluded that patients who have a medical flight to the Land Hospital are usually seriously ill or injured. Then there will be hospital flights where there is an acute and potential threat to life. [[The president calls.]] That's why the airport case is one of the most important issues in our society today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u11	A respectable president. If you're going to get somewhere, it's not just how big a step you take, it's important that you take it in the right direction. I'd like to welcome a recent medical report on the shape of policy to reduce the harmful effects and side effects of substance abuse, which is followed by working groups, which include the work of Jehovah's Witnesses. The person standing here joined us. I'm especially happy, not only that it's made progress, but that it has managed to get all major parties to take their steps in the right direction. They've been criticized, including. of what? paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir daughter, and for good reason, in those who agree with her, as I do, that this is not a big step, not a big leap. That's right. But it's a characteristic that it's a modest step, it's a deliberate step, and it's really only a step because here we're talking about changing the drug system to the point that the emphasis is on humanity, that the emphasis is on helping the unfortunate rather than on punishing and hatred, but it has, unfortunately, been often a characteristic of government policy that is around the world on substance, and it's wrong direction. There was a step in the wrong direction, a respectable president. True, it is not time to discuss this report here and now, but hopefully we will have an opportunity to do so later. There are many things that are very important to the rights of people who are using drugs, whether they have problems or not. Though the step may not be very important to those who want to go further, as I want and what. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir wants and others, this is at least for the change of pace in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u12	President. I'm going like a what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, who spoke before me to express my joy over the report made yesterday. A team has been working for two years to recommend what is called reducing the harmful consequences of substance abuse, and it is truly satisfying to have the report published. Ordinarily, instead of imprisoned people for their consumption of drugs, there are some suggestions. In most cases, it is expected to be young people who consume a dose. But I don't think it's especially bad for young people to go to jail. I also rejoice that this kind of violation is not an option for people to have a criminal record. What a joy it is to be taken away! The report then suggests that there will be an increase in the number of toxic spaces available on short notice. It's also a good, respectable president. One more factor is that an individual injecting intravenous drugs will be assured of access to the acceptable NRT. This is also a very good suggestion because it is important that people who have put themselves in the place of self - injecting use at least tools not to further damage it. [[The president calls.]] I welcome this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u13	A respectable president. I'm going to begin by describing my joy with the coming of Congress since a meeting in August, both here in the Senate Hall, as well as at work in committees with numerous cases. The fact is, all groups are actively involved in committees, attend committee meetings, and read the whole case between committee meetings. However, there are times when there are no crowds in the Hall, and we all know that when the council members are not planning to get involved in a conversation in a special matter, their time at work may be much better off than in the Senate Hall. It is not easy to observe discussions at the Assembly Hall in any part of the world where members of the Parliament are. It matters to all of us that here are most of the work we've been doing, in some way, through the council. One of the matters I am eager to discuss and to conclude in a formal manner that is first authorized to validate the Paris Convention on Climates. Despite the need for legalisation, it is important that the General handles the contract. The Paris Convention is an important factor for the future of all of us that it is desirable that the Allied Council accept special authority to validate the contract for Iceland. The sooner Iceland validates the contract, the better, because the Paris Convention takes its first value 30 days after 55 persons responsible for at least 55% of the world's emissions have validated the contract. Thus, the value of Iceland on the part of 2016 would be weighted on the scale that the contract will be granted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u14	V.E.G. President. The situation in Turkey is serious. Yesterday we heard that the international body of judges, European judges, and judges throughout the world objected to mass arrests and prisons of Turkish judges and judges. In recent years some 3,000 Turkish judges have been arrested immediately after the coup. Skúli Magnússon, chairman of Iceland's Court Society, has requested a meeting with the prime minister on the matter. I'm glad you're here. Sadly, there is good reason to fear human rights in Turkey. It is not just judges who have been arrested, members of Congress, mostly Vietnamese, have been removed from the council or are under threat of such things. Many journalists have been imprisoned. The director of the Court of Justice points out that Iceland alone may not be able to raise any kind of plant, but he hopes that Iceland will make it known that, despite all of it, the Turks still care about what is said about them in other countries. You're absolutely right. Last week, I and other council members submitted a decree that the Council challenged the Turkish government to protect democracy, freedom of ethnic memory groups, civil rights, and free media in Turkey. It wasn't long until at least The one here received a letter from the Turkish church in Norway that I was mistaken for the situation in Turkey. Under these circumstances, it is the duty of other countries to speak up, and in a small way, Iceland is to do so. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps there would be one factor in simply accepting and accepting this synonym.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u15	Mr. President. It is still a long way away that energy prices in the country can be said to have been leveled, though both the highest. Industrial Ministers and other senators, such as winter. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason claimed that the government has leveled national energy prices. According to one estimate, the last budget is at least 400 million to equal the distribution of electricity and the distribution of energy in the absence of geologic irrigation. There may be up to three times the difference between the cost of swallowing and paying for electricity in homes here in the capital area and in many parts of the country. I was recently informed that in Ólafsvíkík, energy bills had increased, which were, on the contrary, due to the approval of equations among the diffusers and were to contribute to a decrease in the number of people with electricity generation and telecommunications. It also meant that there may be an increase in some areas, which has been discovered to have occurred. I think it is very important to know exactly how the result has already been, whether there is a home where the high cost of energy was high that it goes further up when the equations of the system were meant to be good. It was also one thing that we left severely critically, and it was that within this equation, there were not big business companies or big users, only those inside the distribution stores. I think it is very important to balance the situation between people's high energy costs, access to health services, high - speed connections and education, since this is a hugely urban and important matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u16	V.E.G. President. We will now consider a report on how to cope, and the cause of the difficulties and fall of the savings fund. This is a large report in seven volumes, based on an approved Parliamentary resolution from September 28, 2010, which was based on the work of a committee established by the Parliament to provide suggestions on how to respond to a report on the 2008 study committee. Then it was with the court case that the savings in the work of that committee had been somewhat upset, and the council considered it advisable to engage in this investigation. Then, in June 2011, a new synonym is adopted, with the requirements for this investigation. In April 2014, the NTSB adopted its decision and followed by a discussion at the Parliamental Hall on the matter and the report turned down the workoff table of the Commission and monitoring committee, and it is now time for us to submit our products to the General Assembly. According to the above, efforts to reevaluate the policies and activities of the savings fund were not sufficient. It is determined by the Commission and the Commission that the major report currently available for the Council will be useful in such important research work. We view such coverage as not having a home from a board of administrations and monitoring committees. Rather, the Senate needs to consider other ways in which the work is being carried out. I'd like to quote a few lines from our team's opinion of the presence of administration and monitoring committees to this job: In accordance with the role of the administrative and monitoring committee, the Committee for the Management of the report has focused mainly on the access of public members to the management of the savings funds, i.e. Ministers and public surveillance agencies, in accordance with the role of the Committee. In this regard the committee has discussed particularly the financial reorganization of the savings funds following the fall of banks in the fall in the fall of 2008. The committee specifically discussed the Save Fund's case at Keflavík, later SpKef's savings fund. In this regard the committee has looked to the evidence of government decisions and the blurred legal structure and the expense of government funds because of an experiment in the Saving Fund at Chefvik, later the SpKef savings Fund. The Commission and monitoring committee also felt that it was necessary to discuss the development of the Generals in terms of the savings and the impact of legislation on their activities. The Committee considers it important to draw a lesson from a report by the Commission and emphasizes that in an analysis of violations in implementation of law, their objectives and their policies must be considered at any given time. All of this is very clear regarding our approach to this matter. It is clear from the study report that many of the time in the management of the savings funds were fractured. It should be noted that within the committee there have been a view that a more thorough study of individual matters could have been made and that some savings could be produced in a more conclusive way. However, many cases were referred to by the competent authorities where criminal behaviour was suspected. I reiterate that it is not at the site of the research committee, and it never stood up to put the stitches on such cases. It is also not in the management and monitoring committees to do this, and I restate on the fact that a number of cases were referred to the prosecutor for further investigation. It was a matter of opinion as to whether such wrongdoing may have been involved. More than 20 cases went to the prosecutor in this way, and the number of cases was also referred to the surveillance agencies. This vast task contains a fine, well - informed overview of the development of the savings fund in Iceland. We are given a good view of how the savings system will change according to the changing priorities and goals established by the government at any given time. The first U.S. savings laws come from an unwinded last century, the first total law of 1915, but previously there were savings based on the king's decrees. Says a little of the savings in Iceland for a long time but that they proved to be their settlements a very important lift. In 1985, however, evolution begins, all through the turn of the century. It begins a process aimed at reducing the importance of what was on the savings side of the original emphasis that social institutions are closely associated with their communities, on the other hand, reducing this role and role of business banks, and bringing these institutions closer to one another. This is 1985. Changes are made in 1993 and this is consistent with the EU rules. It may be noted that at the time, we could have made better use of the scope they had to set stricter standards. It wasn't done. An impressive pair of tracks were in 2001. At that time, the savings reserve was authorized. Then, for example, it was. opening up the possibility of making money out of the pension fund, paying off stockors even if there was a loss on the market. That's where the old values are completely turned away in this respect. It was tried to return to this council hall. In 2002, however, a bill indicated that this path had to be removed, but it did not have a course. It is good to tell you that making the savings fund as the most model of business banks and making the stock bonds, which were previously viewed as a social contribution, is a matter of pursuit of investments. The Commission concluded that the law has not always been properly prepared, and interest stakeholders were mainly in charge of progress. It should be noted, however, that among the stakeholders there was often a great strain, between small and large pensions, and between stock owners and those who wanted to protect other values. But this is the assessment of the research committee and the Commission and the monitoring committee agree that the legislatator could have been more thoughtful and should not have allowed stakeholders as close to the legislation as possible. While there is little criticism on the basis of the research committee for monitoring institutions, there is still some indication of an unexplained legal structure that the Committee considers proper to be taken into consideration, such as the source of financial resources, although the conditions for financial debt have not been met. Then I come to the factors to which a management committee and monitoring committee specifically directed their eyes on, i.e. The savings fund at Keflavík, his conversion to SKef, the interaction that then took place between the Watchers and the political power, and whether it was a normal interaction between parties. I'm going to see what this is all about, with permission of the President's permission, to refer to the conclusion of the Commission and the Administrative Committee of the Generals. ▪ The Commission and monitoring committees do not criticize that governments have set up a political goal on the restoration of the financial system and will agree with the views that may include: appearing in the reports of former Ministers for the Research Committee, at a meeting of the Committee that a wide - scale will was needed to protect the savings system. On the other hand, the committee presented opinions and speculations as to what really stood to save. In this regard, the Committee calls attention to the great changes that had been made in the working environment of the savings, which are previously attributed to this view. While not all the savings can be put under the same hat, it is clear that many of them had distanced from their original role, and general funds had lost their distinctive characteristics as previously separate them from their business banks. However, there was a limited review of the changing nature of the savings funds, and it would have been desirable in the Committee's opinion that there would have been a targeted discussion of their status and future. ... Regarding the government's decision to restore the Surgeon Fund in Keflavík, which the SpKef spree saw as necessary for the circumstances in which the government was ruling. With the Code No. 125/2008 was assumed to be the means by the government to deal with the savings of the talents, as well as with the government's published a declaration that local business banks and savings, and their branch offices in this country, would be fully guaranteed. ... Within the administrative and monitoring committee, it was concluded that the government could further investigate whether other methods had been capable of securing insurrections rather than the restoration of the Satisfaction Fund to Chefgavur as the SKöf savings Fund, with the equivalent cost of state funds, as was later done. The Committee discussed whether political policy or political will of rulers to support the activities of the Cheflavík Savil Fund had somehow affected the survival of the policy organisations in the affairs of the Cheflavík Savings Fund, i.e. It's the National Intelligence Agency and the Bank of the United States of Iceland. The committee noted that at an open meeting of the Committee, there was no disagreement that the decision to restore the Spartan funds that the Slavil Fund was political, but it was not taken into consideration that political pressure had affected the organisations' activities. The role and responsibility of the institutions involved in the Save Fund at Keflavík was clear, and they make personal decisions. Nevertheless, it is clear that the arrival of the Ministry of Economic Affairs was very decisive, so the Ministry cannot dismiss all responsibility for surveillance. Under such circumstances, the administrative and monitoring committee stresses that its independent surveillance agencies do their jobs without any effect from the Ministry under which they hear a governmental hearing. We all, in addition to my opinion, who attended a meeting of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, signed this opinion. The men of Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Birgitta the daughter of Jónsdóttir, Brubber the Brynjar of Níelsson, Ahzlin-Hjörvar, Lára the daughter of Arnardóttir, Árni Páll the Árnason of Aarnar, and Willum Þór the son of Þórsson. V.E.G. President. I have concluded my point within the time frame of agreement and allow me to refer more closely to our present opinion as a document and men can better understand and, of course, be much more thorough than has been observed in my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u17	A respectable president. The report on the savings issues is a major factor. It was not a series of attacks on the committee, nor was it a basis for the Commission's discussion of some of the factors of this long sad story. Like what? paritaprevir The attitude of Jónasson, president of the Committee, in his case was that it was inevitable to look first and last to the public members in this matter. This does not mean that others are not interesting or reprehensible. On the contrary, the long sad story that appeared in the last few decades of the savings is being a serious warning to us about the deadly cohesion of politics and business life and the greed of possessions that are not private. At one time, there was a large debate in that hall and in many other parts of the community as to how unfortunate it would be if there were money without a shepherd, as it was said. This, of course, was the financial structure that had been accumulated in the savings funds for more than a century. It was a unique myth that this money was not a bookmaking skill and not a private property. Rather, it was locked up in these institutions. It would be fundamental to arrange for it to be released and given to someone for private property. This was not an isolated experience with the savings. We saw exactly the same strength as it did when it came to the privatization of the workers'building system at the end of the century. It had gathered up through nearly 80 years of vast public property, one of which had no one. She went on from generation to generation, became a generation after generation in order to facilitate apartment purchase and secure housing because the apartments were always sold on re-established stocks and not market checkers. It was a political decision at the same time to make it easier to get to the hidden property in the savings, just as it would be to uproot the workers' economy and deliver the property to those in it. We know the consequences of a housing market, as far as the workers'building system is concerned, in which several generations have been in enormous trouble with access to safe housing, and the state is faced with a new source of general agreement at the General Assembly to reimburse some system where the cost of housing is so that people on the lowest income will not have to pay all of it but may have access to cheap, safe housing. As regards the savings fund, we will work out the lessons in this regard. Added to that, huge gangs became around who was allowed to become stockholders in the funds. We saw the formation of political powers far and wide across a country that could spread access to stocks, which could then be sold with huge profits, a story of great sorrow. When we look at all of this, we need to reflect on what it is in the modern - day Icelandic soul, what it was in our attitude toward private rights, which caused us to grapple with social possessions at the end of the last century that other nations have been careful not to do. All over Europe there is a different form of social property. In the labor - based network of dancers, in the Šandelsbig system, and in many urban systems, there is a property that has sunk largely, and people can buy into but pay only part of the real price. In many parts of the United Kingdom, there are closed funds or unattainable sites. I learned that when I was with my grandson in London, near where the baby lived, it was a playground raised by a wealthy man 150 years ago. No adult is allowed in there unless accompanied by a child, nor is he allowed for safekeeping, adults who do not receive escorts of children. There, there are a lot of animals and protection for children to play with. I watched it and thought, " This would never have been allowed to live for 150 years in Iceland. ' Without a shepherd, this money would have caused someone to be so troubled. So we need to think seriously about how we build vast social value and how we keep back from the other, by the way I mean, up to the pathological emphasis on the exclusive rights, which, unfortunately, constitutes the Icelandic legal concept too much. I've traced the political abuse into this system. We saw this explained in the case of the Satisfaction Fund at Keflavík, where the power religion of the Independence Party of Cheflavík was built up around the dispensing system that could be created in the Safari Fund of Kefavik. Every member of the gang was involved in a mess of property and took it. This was the basis for the authority of the Independence Party in the area. We were also particularly involved in the Committee on the matter following a collapse. Hv. paritaprevir In this regard, the 100 - year - old son of Jónasson reported on the results of the committee. I think we can learn this from the story that when it comes to the actions of the State following economic and bank attacks, the State must set very clear goals. I believe that the goal should have been in harmony with the emergency law, to save deep things, and to find them a success course with the minimum cost for national preparation. If, in turn, they wanted to influence the existence of a savings system, they had to be valued. In my opinion it was not possible and not reasonable to mix the role of the State with the saving of its own environments, to secure and achieve them successfully, with the political objective, to build up the savings system. You see, we talked about the savings system in this room a lot. I'm here as Minister of Economic and Business. V.E.G. The current president who sits behind me often asked me what would help with the policy of ensuring the survival of the savings system. We were interested in it, but as I always said and say, "You can't design a banking system and create a basis for different banking institutions if you don't have the managers if it isn't any different from the state's paying for it. " It's not working. While the state can be a regular factor in the diversity of banking systems, the state cannot take into account my knowledge of paying from the state's financial expenses of holding bank systems like this or other. Of course, we learned from this after the collapse that it was important and most reasonable to do as was finally done with the Cheflavé's Satisfaction Fund, simply entering another larger unity. I think it was the preferred way. The cost, in the end, is no more than the one who falls from defending the depositors. Of course, it is a declaration that was made in the collapse and that of all political parties, would be involved, and I think it in itself saved an even worse financial breakdown and was a reasonable and logical resolution when it was made, as later discovered. The report and only on the Commission's discussion will also discuss some of the changes in legislation and the effects of laws on the management of the savings funds. It is true that new European rules did come about and that there was no room for them to be used, so there was a particular concern about relieving obligations from savings. Of course, somehow back in the late 1900's, everyone's banks were to become banks. It was important to cover this hidden property everywhere and to exploit it so that it could be mortgaged and continued to reroute the entire gallery, as was done in the case of all the big banks and, in effect, all commercial life in itself, when the business banks went through a hostile takeover on companies who were even involved in business with them. So extraordinary inseparably, this business life had fallen into a collapse. What's interesting about the design is also to remember that after a crash the European emphasis in the country has been on intensifying rules, extra monitoring, cutting down risk, making full demand that all risk be thoroughly identified and correctly identified. All of this has resulted in the peak increase in the monitoring cost of small financial companies. This is, in effect, the inevitable result of the fall on land as well as in other lands. Thus, despite the good words that many of us have had on restoration of the savings system and the importance of small business modules in this system, it has been very difficult to build up and investors have not been prepared to place their own money in a new savings fund. That's a worry. However, I believe that we are on the threshold of a completely new era in this respect, that our current banking system is requiring a major revision. We in the United States got in spring to the country of John Kay, who has written a great book on other people's funds, Other People's Money, which is actually about how the financial system is serving itself, and how all of it is based on the ability of managers to create possessions that they can somehow ponder so that they could be accounting profits that can then justify enormous profits and high wages. What the financial system should do, which would be sharing money from those who want to save and to those who want to lend, and vice versa, is of utmost importance. In one place in this fine book, John Kay says that it is likely that no business will ever be able to handle its fundamental role as well as the financial system will do without reproach. It also runs in this excellent book the non-endurable cry code that is always awakened by the dominant financial elements in the event that this system's work conditions are involved. In some respects, some of the ideas he has put into practice, some in a balanced way, and in some respects accidentally following a collapse. That's how deposit is now, for example. ... underthemostimportant part of the loans of national banks. They are enormously well - funded. In turn, their monitoring costs have increased, and the monitoring cost of small financial companies has increased even more. We need to think deeply about the ways in which bigger financial companies can be broken up, paying for the existence of small financial companies, which can provide a wide range of services but risks so that the image we know can be used without the monitoring costs that result from the normal work in general business banks. It's, for example. It's interesting in this context to see the change in the so-called shadow bank activity in Iceland. Because we've put a lot of taxes and increased patrols on the financial companies, a growing proportion of the loan trades have moved out of the banks. People are growing into their pension fund and borrowing, businesses walk up to Gamma, and borrows there, such companies that have funds to invest don't have to meet the same security requirements as banks, and they don't have to carry the same check expenses. That's how I think the banking system and the financial system in itself are in a great process of transformation right now. We need to be open to the extent to which we can influence that trend so that successful media agencies can be used with little risk, so that the costs of monitoring for such institutions do not have to be too high and the order around them does not have to be too burdensome. A respectable president. Of course, there was some community discussion on the extent and cost of the report discussed here. There have been followed by a review of the rules of the Generals research committees and a process designed to ensure that the financial scope of this assessment will not be an impossibility of the research committees when needed. I'm very pleased that we immediately set out a spring study of specific factors at the bank sale of the time, especially at the Farmer Bank, and it's very important that we get examples of how soon we can do research on the Generals, which will not prove to be so exorbitantly expensive that people hesitate to use the important tools that research committees are able to reveal the facts about important social issues. This is how I want to thank the cooperation of the Committee on this matter, and I think it is important for us to learn the correct lesson from this sad story of the savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u18	A respectable president. We're discussing the administration and monitoring committee's opinion on the General Commission report on how to cope and cause difficulties and fall of the savings fund. The report by the NTSB counts as a seven - thick volume, a long and complex story of grief. Just the opinion of a board of administration and monitoring committee is well over 40 pages and there's a lot of work to thank for that. However, there is good reason to mourn that this work had to be done. It is the result of an unprecedented situation when the entire banking system, including the savings system, collapsed in 2008, eventually became part of this abnormal bank bank bank block. Much of the work on this report is an attempt to dig for what happened, how it could go so badly, and what lessons can you learn from it? Then there is another sad story that is equally important in this study, which, of course, leads to the collapse, i.e. how the savings system, which had actually been quite successful, a community banking system for decades in Iceland, changed into something quite different, a monster, which then went sliding down with the other banks in the fall of 2008. I'd like to praise this job. The report is not a fun reading but, in many ways, a dog's boring, not because it's a long or complicated matter, but because of the great sad story that the community banking system has actually been replaced by ideological reasons to be a bank with the means of profit, the way money without a shepherd, as it was called in its own time - i.e. Social possessions were brought to the hands of so - called foundation owners and were actually made up of gangs, which, unfortunately, were all too often apocalyptic in both politics and other secular powers. These community institutions were run up into a growing and growing banking system without any official supervision or maintenance until it did not survive and collapse. There is reason to recommend this doglike report, this doglike story, because it is a very important warning example. Let us not forget that not many years have passed since we watched our street lights in Iceland when we were slowly overcrowded while we wondered if there was a future for us here as a community. Today, just a few years after this big bank collapse, we are seeing too many signs that the economy, financial life, is reaching back to the same old uneasiness. We've begun to hear reports of huge bank bonuses and billions of dollars of trade are beginning to appear in the pages of the magazine, such as that there are 1,000 million normal amounts in everyday business. It is important that we learn from this history, and especially so, that we learn the role of the Watch Tower Society and official support when it comes to the financial system. In 2008 it became quite memorable to see that when everything is going down, the community and the state, the government, the public agencies that have to take over, save what will be saved, and therefore it is very important that we keep learning that public control of financial systems is vital. It is vital for society that must be replaced, but it is also vital that the financial system be healthy, normal, and viable. I'm not going to extend this discussion in particular. Our audience on the committee, what? paritaprevir Mr. Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, unfortunately, is not at the council today to take on further material discussions, but I thank you for the work of the Committee, for the report and for this discussion today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u19	V.E.G. President. All partners face a real problem when a whole financial system collapses. When it happened here, we were so lucky to set rules for the restoration of the financial system. This was done by the law of distress. The foundation of the restoration was that we were going to secure financial funds, banks, savings. Of course, it was the government's duty to do so in the most practical way possible, with great interest at stake. The measures taken were determined in agreement with the International Cash Fund, except that one way was through restoration of the savings funds. The savings funds were taken out of parentheses for this work, and the commission focused on government actions around the Savil Fund of Chefavík, which were politically decided to be a foundation for the restoration of the savings system. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's aged Árnason, who earlier said that this action had not been suitable for mixing the issue with each other. The results of government landing are that this has been a mistake that has cost taxpayers a lot of money, more than would have been the same as with the restoration of other financial companies. In itself, no strong comment can be made on political decisions to restore a system that was canceled. However, it is possible to comment that this is the way it should be done around taking responsibility for the main points of these enterprises. When such decisions are made, it also counts whether there is a basis for doing so. In the process of development at the Satisfaction Fund at Keflavík, March 2009, and then the SpKef spree, until he was united with NBI, his position has deteriorated from month to month. At first, it was apparent that the sum of the savings was below the minimum of 84rd grade. Acting on financial companies. A FME report made in September 2008 on the budget and market plan of the fund, and the result gave a very dark picture of the savings status. FCE kept granting the savings fund to meet the legal requirements for personal wealth, which were allowed at 4 mg. 86. g. the law on financial companies, if it is assumed that the financial enterprise can increase its financial resources. It is permitted to postpone this period for up to six months, and it can be extended for another six months. When reviewing all the data, the FME report in September 2008 on the funds status, all the data available in work groups represented by the FME, the Federal Bank, the Ministry of State on the vacancy, where it was clear that the situation deteriorated from month to month, it may well be said to be repeated. It is impossible for me to justify in any way that the FME should give another six months after a six-month extension of the card without being able to give any sound reason and rich reasons when representatives of the FME came before the Council Board of Directors and Control. It may be that this view of the FME has given the government reason to believe that this could be possible, I'll say nothing of it, although many feel more likely that the political attitude has further affected the FME decision. I'm not going to judge any of that. This does not change the fact that there is all the advice, the information available about the fund's position, and the human beings, that this continued operation, loss of a month after a month, would eventually affect the government's payment with increased taxpayers because, in the end, people always had to take responsibility for the core of the savings fund. If the situation had deteriorated a month ago, it is clear that the government's losses would increase. Of course, here we do not have accurate numbers, but the report of the research committee shows that the damage is in some way in the range of 25◯26 billion. [[Up front.]] Some people say something more. Maybe it doesn't matter. The point is that governments seem to have stepped aside because they would have been some kind of political decision to do this, even trying to support it, as the former economic and business minister did for the Commission, did not matter whether the savings of the savings were taken immediately or two years later when he is united in the NBI. That's not a good explanation for my knowledge. Clearly, losing matters. The terms increased after the SKef came into existence. It is clear that the loss is significant and that this was a charge for government efforts not to intervene sooner, as the former minister of finance says himself. Had he known about the PME report from September 2008, this is what the research Committee says about the savings fund would have taken immediate action. It seems that the government and the Ministry were not informed about all the information available about the fund's status. It's a serious thing if it's true. There is also reason to make serious remarks to the SpKef institution after the FME could not give further delay or release to the Cheflavour Sparak Fund because significant comments were made about the rightness of this decision at a meeting of Iceland's Secret Bank a few days after the establishment of SKef. It stated that the cower thought that the value of the savings fund was difficult, and it realized that he had no assets useful in the regular business of financial companies at the Federal Bank. It was also found that the cash market was still bad. In particular, the vice president of the bank specifically notes that no one has yet been able to convince him that a viable bank was involved. On October 12, 2010, the secret office for the Government notes that the SKef status was difficult and likely to gain the funds is even worse, since the financial bills of PricewaterhouseCoopers of November 28, 2009 had not been followed. But it continues. Even though we do not have the exact number, all of this leads to serious harm. It's a two-year program. This is in opposition to the advice of all experts, including The World Cash Fund, up to that point seems to be political. I do not comment that humans have some political objective of rebuilding the savings system, but we cannot allow ourselves to do so in this situation because the emergency law expected this to be done in a simple and practical way, with as little financial expenses as possible. It was successful with other financial companies with great light. The government at this time followed up the plan with all other financial companies, but this company was successful because they continued to follow the instructions of an emergency law. I have to say myself that I am incomprehensible, because we talk so much about the importance and independence of the surveillance agencies, that the FME has at this time, in March 2009, given this exception without seeing that there were any reasons. That is a significant point, and the representatives of the FME could not give the commission any clear explanation. As a result, I cannot avoid making serious comments, and this gives me reason to reconsider whether there is any basis for uniting the Secret Service and the SEC so that there is a consistent policy here that both the bank and the surveillance took a certain course of action, evidently some sort of disagreement on the subject, but I still want to thank the members of the committee for a job well done. This was hard work, hard work, and is really not in some committees living in a normal environment without much help. Still, I think it worked out perfectly. I think that men were reasonable in their releases, not beyond their arguments. As I say and have often said in all this discussion: It is easy to be wise afterward, but it must be pointed to what is reprehensible, what might have been done, and I believe that we all learn from this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u20	President. There's supposed to be a final bump on this terrible business with the savings fund. It has to be said that, as it is, both the scope of the report that came from the Committee that covered the issues of the savings in the fall, and after the collapse, it was not very beneficial in many ways because this report contained many things that the committee was actually not assigned to do. We're here to discuss treatment and review and the opinion of the management and monitoring committee on the report. I've always called on us to get legal suggestions on what to do to fix these matters and prevent another one from happening again. Much has been said in our discussion of the matter now that is beneficial. I wondered where to go. Me and a lot of other Icelanders were big fans of basic ideas behind the savings fund. They were small banks in their rural communities that were to be used for those near the banks. The originals were very important foundations under the borders of the land. Sadly, all of this went into the gypsy of greed over the years before collapse. The savings story in Iceland was truly tragic, with few exceptions. I've been trying to get some answers to why we didn't ask for any extras when we brought in here an EU financial system rule because we certainly have a special position that we're not a few people. The above - mentioned regulations threw away very small banks, such as savings. At the same time, it produced the same moral hazard as that of giants. One must wonder, " Is it not yet time to accept the law to separate traditional business banks from so - called cassino banks? ' It's been inside a bill since then. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, in turn. I'd like and benefit that we'd be able to finish that case and at least vote on it before this council ends. Still, it is very sad that many people, including me, feel that the systems that are supposed to be monitored often are not sufficiently strong or firm. This was also true of what happened after the collapse of the savings fund. As noted by other members of the Parliament, the SEC did not perform its roles sufficiently. The deadlines that some of those savings received and ended up with very few things, in fact, should never have been granted. In the talks of the senators who have spoken before, almost everything has been said that I would have wanted to say about it. Of course, it is possible to talk for a long, detailed time about the corruption, the interference, and the tragic results associated with the banks in Iceland. I'm much more interested in wondering if there's anything we can do to make sure that there's a way we can do something different in the bank business, e.g. A bank exchange that is not encouraging to employees or top executives to take on super - baths. I think it's strange, and I just don't understand why the law on proposals doesn't fall under tax law is a reward. Why is this not taxed like any other salary? I think it is very important and simply challenge present rulers and the entire council to bond these proposals before this continues further. People are seriously offended. I have to say, given the sacrifices that very many people have had to make, and are still fighting the banks to have a roof over their head or have lost everything or had to flee the country, I feel like a really wet barrel in their face. I would like to have immediate detailed work on what we must do in order to have the possibility of having a community bank, such as the savings that were originally meant to be. I gather with members of my council that there is no need to alter the law much. I wondered why it hasn't been done yet. In many ways Iceland has done much to learn from the enormous madness that occurred here before the collapse and its consequences. But so far, there is quite a lot left of the check list on the Senate resolution approved by the Allied Council. I feel very important before this council is over, in view of all the matters to come from the government, that there is plenty of time to go over the Senate and see if there is anything we can do to complete the suggestions available there. Of course, you can't finish everything. A complete study of these banks has not yet taken place, and it needs to be determined whether it needs to be reserved or not and what you can learn from the way the report that we base our opinions went completely out of hand. This should not be so that any of these events cannot be subject to any further investigation. If we are to learn from the past, there is much we can do to find out what went wrong. The Report of the World Council of Research Committee was never properly discussed at the General Assembly. Despite a detailed discussion of it in a committee assigned to review the results of a report by the Allied Commission, the eye focused on the Eyjafjörður rather than on the input of the report, since it was so unfortunate that it began to rise several days after the report was submitted. If there are no bills or such, I wish we would win something to fix what went wrong with the savings, e.g. At the right time. A financial and business committee will discuss thoroughly whether there is something to do, whether there are holes to be stopped or found a way to make sure that if there is an interest in starting a small community bank in Iceland, a huge European rule would not block it. There's an enormous amount of trust in banks in Iceland over their heads. A man is always asked at a town: " Where am I supposed to do my business because I don't want to be at this bank or any of these big banks because of all kinds of moral values? Now many people are talking about wanting to go somewhere else and not staying with the banks that are paying off these huge requests. I saw in the news a few minutes ago that Iceland Bank is also going to make a huge contribution. It would be very useful if it were a community bank, some kind of small savings in the capital area, where you could turn. Like many people I know, I do business with two of the savings that didn't have to bring prayer baths to the state fund. Of course, there must be a bank that is trusted by people. There are all kinds of signs in the large world that there can be financial collapse again, which leads to some kind of course. Economic systems are dipped in great depth, and the common people usually have to be dipped in them and suffer the damage. Therefore, I and we piranha are very interested in finding ways to make sure the public can use banks. You cannot live in a modern society without doing business with a bank of some kind. There must be order and diversity in the bank work here. I don't know if a savings fund can ever be started again, but this report and the opinion of the management and monitoring committees will leave me with the question whether there is a way to have more diversity in banking operations and whether we have done enough to prevent similar sparks and became involved in both the savings set out in this report and the banks in general here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u21	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to participate in this discussion, considering the Commission and the Commission for a report made by the Commission to help prevent and cause the difficulties and fall of the savings fund. This is a very detailed report, and it cost some 700 million; it didn't mean it. The committee gave it its job, and it's about to be two years since the Commission and the Commission took it up on the Committee and now gives this opinion. Better late than never. I would like to highlight a degree of variation in these issues, leading to the probability of what really happened in those days, and therefore I also have a report by the secretary of finance on the restoration of business banks submitted to the General Assembly in 2011. In view of this, it is clear that things do not go wrong in the case of the former Supreme Court. Secretary of finance, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. If the report that the member gave to the Council 2011 is reviewed, and then this opinion is considered by the management and monitoring committees, there are several conflicting issues. First, it should be repeated, as has been shown in the case of members of the Parliament during this discussion that it was odd that the Cheflavík Savile Fund had received so long as the savings fund did not meet in any way of perpetuation requirements. It's all a long story. It's getting very old. This is also referred to the report of the General Commission, the big bank report. However, these reports show that the World Bank Fund was totally against rebuilding the savings system. It seems that it was driven on political grounds to deposit so much money into the savings system. The savings were around the country. One is in the northeastern district, but the main thing is the big losses for the government fund was the Cheflavík Savings Fund. I don't know what moved the party on at this time, they have to answer better for it, but it was very strange that the government went against the World Bank. As we know, at the time we were in the world's supernuendos of the World Bank, it is very important to see these reports in such a decisive way. When this is done, it was justified in saying that the savings system should be restored. Government expectations at that time were in place for the Safari Fund in Cheflavík to become the mother stop of the savings system in Iceland. That's wrong, or at least white lie, for Byr had already taken up that role. And then these things went on. The sad thing is that the transfer of the state to inject money into the fallen Safari Fund of Cheflavík was in vain, for before long the Landsban had his body taken away. At that time, prices were taken, and it was felt that the government fund would have to place over 13 billion newly founded banks of the land in this contribution. I can't imagine how this interstep was taken at the time. I haven't had a solid argument about why it was done. I had a meeting at the Board of Directors and Control Committee where former financial ministers were introduced to the committee and former Economic and Business Ministers as well. Then he spoke. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask that we should now look to the time when there were black days in the nation's history. I refuse, noble President. The Black Times in the nation's lives were the 2008 falldays when the then government established its emergency law. By this time, there were no black times in the nation's lives. There were very simple decisions with both eyes open, at least With respect to the environment back then. As I have said, I have not yet received any clear explanation for why this was done in this way. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who now serves at a council hall, should be able to tell us something a little more than what is stated in this report. It is appropriate that this report be discussed now, since this is part of the privatization of banks of the second century C.E. The report has now been concluded as much of the budget committee will be discussed after the next weekend and will appear to the public. However, this is just a fraction of what it says, since the taxpayers'cost is estimated to be in the restoration of the savings system, it is estimated to be between 32◯33 billion. These are high amounts, especially in view of the fact that during this period the health, education, and basics were being cut down. This amount is only a fraction of what will appear to us in the report that will be published after the next weekend, which reviews the second privatization of banks when the bank was directly transferred on a silver plate by a large donation from the Icelandic government and, consequently, taxpayers. A second part of this topic, which has been very recently discussed, is the decision to move the inside Spain to Acirion. They were converted to what is called "Drúsi." It was real then, you might say, a handout team that started, and there was nothing copper. It was always said: "Why are there so much collectments in the Drama to the borrowers? " As a result, Dírím was transferred to Arion for a special social security number. There was no sign of defending it, so there was a lot of collects. I don't think there's a family in Iceland who doesn't know someone who fell into the Drómi. You've heard a lot of stories about how collect operations were performed there. So when this was done, the current minister of finance promised that Acion would be harmless of the letters that were inserted into Arion so that the State would take all the risk. But this is one of the causes of this matter that will also be clear after the next weekend. What must also be discussed in this savings business is the strange event in which governments adopt and change the terms of the crisis when they appear in 2009. At that time, the newly formed elections, the courts, the greens, and the Conspiracy, were settled in the government, as everyone knows, and at a certain point, the minister of finance decided to change the criteria for the prices and to deviate from the path of the emergency law. This was done as it seemed in one night. I've been calling for information from the system on these issues. A financial committee has been sent out by two groups. In one of the conventions, the serious opinion expressed by one member of the committees is that governments want to do everything they can to atone for demands. That was indeed done. There was a change of direction to the center. A new estimate of prices was made, and truly the whole subjugated to these fixed, fancy frames that were actually arranged by the rescue law. The Bureau of Economic Affairs took power and moved into the Ministry of Economics, and the politics were first released. Death arts were created, making decisions as to which companies to live and who to die. Then, too, the crew bar was taken up again. They had been transferred to the New World Bank in Icelandic, but at that time they were restored. There is no such thing as the Icelandic law known as gangstad loans. If a report on growth and price insurance from 2001 is read immediately, it is illegal to accept loans from foreign currency in this country. These loans were always illegal. It knew the banks, as well as I'm calling them here, depending on the SEC's responsibility that they allowed this to happen. Then court decisions fell, and they were condemned illegally. It is amazing how many cases the Supreme Court had to judge, 20 court sentences fell to find out that the loans were illegal. The confusion of all of this is to let the people all the time think they were paying off foreign loans. It's the deception that was triggered. There was no material property, there was never any currency behind this gangstad loan. It probably looks like a sort of accounting stunt to the fallen banks to call it a success loan and bind it to a foreign currency in order to maintain the bank's edge so that it can roll through a large amount of foreign currency that then disappeared from the country and never remained here. But what perhaps few people know is that when the banks are founded, all the loans were turned into Icelandic dollars. Yet, as with foreign loans, they continued to charge their new banks with the will of the government. During that time, we made progress to suggest that each of us get 20% off the mortgage. The battle was very severe, but it proved that it could not be written only by 20%, probably a much higher number could be written, but it was not acceptable to governments, since they had come into negotiations with demandsors. As I have said before, everything was done to serve demands, and it is shown in the meetings that will be published as a package for the next weekend. This is where it's been said that proposals have to be eliminated from Icelandic society. These petitiones take place inside the swellingers of old banks. Who's sitting there? Yes, people in that room who accept these petitioning payments could not be paid out unless it had been agreed with foreign demands in the past government. One highly respected Supreme Court lawyer said in a blog entry last week: The strange silence around him. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, the strange silence around the left green when it comes to filing. But this is even That's why. All I've done is over the wrong stuff that's been published in this case. A management board has issued a high opinion. The members of a council of candidates on the committee are signing it, so the media agrees with what is presented here. It's very thorough, as I said. I encourage people to think that they are interested in recalling and trying to figure out what really happened. People have been held accountable in this community since the collapse of a bank, and then I'm talking about people who have been prosecuted. This is no less of a violation. That's a lot of handwork. This points to the fact that the secretary of finance said that he did not know of a particular report published on the 2008 fall days of 2008. The F.O.D. had that report, and he knew about it all along. Then, in part, the F.A. is blamed for having always given the additional authority that the bank could operate despite not having a financial debt that was too high. There's something that doesn't work out, someone who's lying about it. It was known on the autumn days of 2008 that the funds in Cheflavík were not well known, known throughout history. The UN confirms this, as shown in this opinion. Some people are not quite telling the truth, but it is almost impossible and naive to argue that the secretary of finance did not know the existence of this report, especially because the savings was on the table of the secretary of finance, in a ventilator, as it were. It is unthinkable that the current financial minister could not have known about this report. I repeat, just this rotation of the Safari Fund at Keflavík cost a state sum of 13 billion. These cases were discussed extensively during the last term, many queries were sent to the Ministry of finance, many oral inquiries to the then financial minister. There was little response, as we have seen, but this is in the form of a report that has been judged on a lesser basis than perhaps on the basis of those presented in this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u22	The president only wants to know that while the red light begins to flash, it is permitted to exceed the time limit when a fellow speaker is left of the same category and is withdrawn from the last speakers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u23	Mr. President. I thank the management and monitoring committee for a comprehensive report and a great review of the findings of the NTSB itself on the causes and consequences or the causes of the fall of the savings fund. I'd like to present myself immediately, and, of course, primarily as the former financial minister, I'd be very pleased with what turns me into this, both that which the NTSB puts on paper, is all right with me, as well as the results of the management and monitoring committees in this document. You might say some things about what individual speakers have left behind, but the results as they appear here in print, I don't consider them to be unfair in one way or another. Of course, I tried to inform the board as well as to paint the correct picture of the things I knew, not to withdraw when certain political issues were involved. Of course, it is mentioned in the report, and many have referred to it in the same way that I tried like other former Ministers to give a clear answer when we arrived at a administrative and monitoring committee meeting. I believe with this much work and a thorough review by the administration and monitoring committee now registered, there is a clear picture on this subject, and then lessons can be learned. It is clear to itself, and it is well explained that governments, both executives and legislators themselves, should look at the trend beginning in the mid - 1980's, as an authority could rightly be made, and can be said to fall by the savings, almost all, from the end of 2008 to 2015, if I remember correctly, because the last savings that are not still active together with the land bank. The lesson, of course, can be learned. That's what I hope to do because I still believe it, and my biggest disappointment in this case is just how little money is left of the savings family. I really hope that we will see again in such local commercial institutions that are built in the interest of regional interests on grounds other than that alone to have of that money; savings, banking, public banks, bank loans, or something like that, as we see all prosper in many countries around us in competition with a large giant in a financial market. I'll pass on some comments. paritaprevir In other respects, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, not that I can't help but enjoy it. In this case, in terms of savings, a senator felt ashamed that the former government would have gone against counseling or will of the International Cash Fund. I'm used to the problem. A senator scolded me for being a handbill of the World Bank Fund and letting it control me, so I enjoyed it, so now it was a crime that we did not sit and stand as the World Bank Fund would like to, for example. in this matter. It is true, of course, that the Icelandic government, both the European Commission and the legislator, had its own meaning on the subject. What were they? Just as the big banks were rescued, there was a rich transboundary will to try to back up their savings. The first manifestation of this will be in the emergency laws, which specifically include sources to the government in order to help a savings fund in trouble. This will appear here repeatedly at the General Assembly, asking a lot about how things worked out for the savings fund. Thus, his willingness was not only present at the legislature, but he was rich among the local people. This is a factor in the fact that Cheflavík's savings fund, in spite of all the work, managed to overcome their financial problems, was so powerful that the local people were supporting him. Companies and firms in the South made their deposit into the savings fund to help him in his financial problems and, indeed, the state also, a capitalist of itself, who founded an account in the Cheflavour's Safari Fund, which is special. All of this matters when history is intelligence. Fortunately, more reports are being produced by the State in these areas. A recent report has been published for the Ministry of finance by Dr. Ásgeir Jónsson and Hersir Sigurgeirsson. It's very informative. The results of both the funding of large banks and the savings, and the results are like the findings when the report was closed, that the state is in addition to the example of one 115 billion dollars. It is true that if the savings alone are considered, the outcome is not as good. The cost of the Kingdom today is over 22 billion - a clean cost. Some assets may return to it, but because the big banks are in and up to about 140 billion is this total event. The cost is primarily because the savings of Keflavík's savings Fund and later the move to SpKef were guaranteed. Happily, however, the only case in which the State took its cost is the largest and most risky declaration of this kind made by both the first government and our efforts, would be guaranteed by all of us. It is one of the findings of a head of the literature that, in fact, the State can be very pleased to avoid promising insurance on every side of the world, whatever their names are called, in all the Icelandic institutions. In the end, though, there is only one situation that proves to be in such a situation that property is not enough for the priorities, according to priorities. This is more likely to be equal, for fortunately, the savings of the Bank were not borrowed from the common people. I agree with Gylfi Magnússon, former economic and commercial minister, that there is no strong evidence that this was of great importance, e.g. that SKef worked for the short period of time that he did simply because the problem was inherited from Keflavik's Saving Fund and his weaknesses were in such a great deal of evil and inflating the property collection of savings and loans without insurance, and that situation did not change much at the time that SpKef worked, in itself neither, during the Cheflavík Saving era because of its being not only the debet on the edge of the bank, they are on the other side of the bank. [[The president calls.]] The money's coming into the bank, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u24	V.E.G. President. The opinion of the management and monitoring committee presented here is the result of a large amount of work that has been carried out there. Other speakers have mentioned the criticism shown in the savings report and the work related to it, which, of course, came primarily from the length and cost of living far more than any plan. It should not be reduced that the subject was difficult on the part of the council, probably the study questions presented in a fully predetermined way, so that the role of the committee should not be clearly set aside at the beginning. Enough about that. The need to mention some aspects of this report and the discussion that has taken place here. First, in connection with the report, legal adjustments have been made in earlier years, a process that began in 1985 and lasted through the turn of the century, including changes in savings and employment status. In fact, I would like to draw attention to the fact that most associated with this system put pressure on change, simply because they thought that the savings would be more competitive management units by their environment and rules that would be more consistent with what was generally done in other financial institutions. That was the explanation for at least many of the changes that occurred. That's what I wanted to do during the discussion. Another point I wanted to say is that what eventually raged upon the savings, so to speak, was a worldwide financial collapse and because many of the people were having a bad time, they did not stand up as far as the major banks did that storm. On the other hand, when we consider how this financial crisis and the extreme situation were faced by the financial companies, we need to remember that there were some differences between those in the first few days and the weeks after these events took place, then the decisions made each year, two years later, in all other circumstances, primarily those in the picture of both the problems and the circumstances had become much clearer. In the autumn of 2008, people made decisions under tremendous pressure of time without the overall picture of the problem being realized, I suppose, at the time. Decisions to be made and to take into account Of course, the fate of the savings is not under the same circumstances. That's what I think people have to keep in mind. Then I come to the point that others have taken. The final speaker concluded his talk, and these are the decisions that were especially related to the Chefavík Savings Fund. Understandably, why not? paritaprevir J. Sigfússon, then a minister of finance and key characters in many of the decisions they made. Criticism, based on the lack of solid basis for making decisions, is followed by the fact that the Satisfaction Fund of Chefvik or SpKef was no longer active at the market, while there were some assumptions. What the report says is that such decisions were made was a political desire to maintain the savings system. Like what? paritaprevir Brynjar's armored Níelsson came in earlier, there are limits to what human decisions can be justified on political grounds if there are very strong evidences in the other direction and if information is to be available or to be known by men who make it clear to all that the goals made by men cannot be met with the action that humans take. I reiterate the criticism as slow as possible. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son and others have established the decisions that were there and remind us that these measures were also criticized during the last period. Much of this report can be said to support the criticism that was promoted in this field during the last term and before this report of the savings board. I've seen it, like hell. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon, that during the last term, very often discussed the future of the savings system and expressed an interest in maintaining it. Members of all classes participated in these discussions. I think that when we, who participated in those halls, had a comment in that regard, we have not had access to the same information, reports, and analysis that those at the board had, those at the government table, or were in charge of surveillance agencies. I think that while we can debate how much damage the billions of decisions made by this kind of decision, we still have to face the possibility that it can be harmful and incontrovertible for politicians to decide under these circumstances on the grounds of romantic ideas, I want to say, that a system that can be maintained once and once served a purpose, but it may not be the same with us in the same way of changing surroundings.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u25	A respectable president. I want to be like others to start thanking you. The management board for her review of this report. The committee has obviously handled these matters well. I agree with the committee's main factors and what will be discussed. I also agree with the officials of the case and with other members of the council that it would have been better to go to the melodramatic language, which is a dirty matter in all places. Listening to the discussion has made me feel that the introduction to this report or to an opinion is at the very end of the fact that a social bank or savings in the form of their thinking cannot be kept out. So I disagree completely. I think that if we both believe in the administration and monitoring committee and the report of the research committee of the savings as presented here, we are now going to agree on the administrative and monitoring committee, to take up the policy of the financial system. We are to look for ways to restore the thinking that was behind the savings store at the time before they were made hollow, before the rules were changed, and all of this into the same financial institutions as other financial institutions. That's what we're supposed to think about now. The savings may not exactly work in the form they once were in, but we should take into account this discussion about the Bank of America, which some political groups have taken in their course. In addition to the advance party, the Conspiracy and the left movement have already taken up that policy. I don't know if the Pirats have her. We are also required to take part in the discussion of separation of business banks and investment banks. I have pointed out from this platform that it is historic that there are now, I think, all political groups at the General with it on their policy sheet separating business banks and investment banks. Even the Independence Party agreed to this at their national meeting. Yet, it is all too often that members of the party do not speak in that way when they get up in the platform. This is part of the restoration of the financial system, and I am convinced that when people go into the policy of social ideals, business banks, and the like, they come to the conclusion that it is possible to build financial institutions no different from those that were supposed to be. But I'm worried it won't happen. Now, however, is the opportunity because the State holds a large part of the financial system, a larger part of the financial system that has taken place since the collapse of the economy. We are to attack in reorganisation of the financial system by taking the lead in building here on community banks, savings, or other financial institutions that put social values ahead of the interests we see today in the news with superbubbles and so on. I feel that administration and monitoring committees feel as if they have the will they have to look this way. I suggest that the next election period is assigned to work on a policy that aims to build a powerful financial organization that has a social role as a guide.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u26	A respectable president. We're here on a report on the savings fund, and we're primarily talking about the SpKef, and there's a good reason. This isn't the first time I'm taking up that matter. All the last term, I did it and other senators. It was demeaning our concern at a council hall, in articles, in interviews, and elsewhere. As we examine the results of this report, we will find that any anxiety we had and comments we made proved, unfortunately, justified and, if anything, we have underestimated what was going on there. Here we go. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, the highest. Secretary of finance at that time, and most of the time, it is political, along with the former Supreme Court. Business secretary, and try to minimize the mistakes made here and cost the taxpayers a lot of money. It doesn't make any sense. Like what? paritaprevir Brynjar of the son of Níelsson went through thoroughly, with emergency laws being started in great haste in a time of crisis. There was a formula for building up the banking system, which was being followed in general except when the savings were due. Then there was another way. At that time, people were not running in situations that had no precedent in the nation of England. No, that was over a long time. They had all the information listed here, whether it was the Department of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mats Josefsson, the Sentennial Bank - all warned of the route that had gone by the former government. It's very simple. Because this road cost billions of dollars for taxpayers. It doesn't stand to say that it was merely a matter of protecting the details, as some have observed. Councilmen. The exact same situation was true of other banks, exactly the same as regarding the Mystivian Saving Fund, which was immediately subject to Arion Bank and did not cost the taxpayers anything. The property did not begin to work, as was done in other banks. The cost of operation was natural and even extended. I was thrown out to point out that the SKef law was broken, but I noticed that here it is confirmed that it was true. Now it's only natural that a person is not overly judgmental and that he says: the situation must be taken into account, etc. True, there were no emergency circumstances, no grounds. But it's probably taken into account. But I think it's a little special when it comes to defense. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is that circumstances should be taken into account. That's when I feel like it. A senator should be consistent and adopt the national court case, for there certainly was no tolerance to the circumstances that existed there. In fact, when men took such a shameful course, it is found that decisions made by those taken before judgment, such conduct, have proved to be very effective for the nation of England. Actually, it went wrong. A senator who had been taken out that the state came out of the box and quoted it for himself on the bank, up to $140 billion. Of course, it was a big shock, and so many got upset, so it's not just about the funds, it's about the people in the country. I'm not putting it into practice in any way, I'm just saying that the conclusion of this report and why. The management and monitoring committee is simply saying that there was a big mistake here that paid the taxpayers a lot of money. There is no doubt that if men had taken other routes as recommended and, as was done in other banks and savings, the taxpayers would not have had to carry this expense, at least not to the extent that it did. I hope in general, we are fair to our political opponents. Of course, during the last term, men undertook difficult assignments. On the other hand, what we said was taken very lightly, pointing out that this is our journey and is now confirmed. We received little thanks and, in fact, received other things that will not be traced here. It's all right, Mr. Honorable President. But I thought it proper to think that people would be reasonable to them and to the highest degree. Councilmen who were here in the fall of 2008 and were in the most difficult of cases, when they discussed these matters here. It's better late than never, but if you want to be a party to yourself and say that in this matter, which was a much easier subject, in which there was much better information than this mistake was made, you have to take into account the circumstances, then that must always be true. I think people should be parties to themselves if they use it to make their own case, because there's nothing else to say. No one can claim that after considering these reports and their conclusions that some experts said: You should go this way, which was gone. No expert suggested that. Everyone pointed out that the way that had gone was a funeral that would cost the taxpayers a great deal. Sadly, that led to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u27	V.E.G. President. I'd like to use the few seconds I have here as a provision to thank you for the discussion and to emphasize that the report we have now discussed is my judgment on the Will of Generalis to face the causes and consequences of the bank and financial collapse here in 2008. The report we have on this subject has its advantages and weaknesses. The report has identified a number of flaws. A number of factors might have been made clear and stable. Men have mentioned the use of the word dremas as an example. That's what I brought in in in my opening speech. On the other hand, I have faith that this report can provide a basis for the future work that needs to be done. It has to do with the future financial systems of the country. I would like to agree with those who have stressed that we especially need to examine the social value originally established by the savings system. In this regard, people have talked about community banks. It appeared during the Council of Congress that this issue is rapidly under way that the General Assembly should undertake such work. This will be agreed with the Council of Directors and tails Committee of the Council. I would like to reiterate that the historical review contained in the Commission report on the savings fund should be useful to them. I'd like to divorce the matter by stressing that the council that is about to begin at the end of the election will be attacked at that level of work. Again, I want to say that it's important, and it should be our lesson too, that when we deal with problems of the sort we've been through, we do it the way we're learning to do it. We're doing some serious research, trying to disappear from every mnemonic approach, we're trying to handle the situation, that's what we've been trying to do at this job. Something can be criticized, as I had previously thought, but I believe we are moving on in a better or better future than we have ever lived in these.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u28	Mr. President. It was a long reading of Congress documents with this bill. The conversation was well discussed last night, and much was presented that raised a person's thoughts and feelings, and there is a difference of opinion. What we have been most critical of, and that has even been the case. conducted by the local council president who said that farmers had been ready for work early in the year, but it had not been until the end of this year, which was able to initiate negotiations. He complained that the State had come prepared for the work. It was also noted in his case that many people were not at peace because the Councilship Committee, which was formed in 2014, was never met. That's exactly part of our criticism, i.e. The approach to this matter, who is involved in its contract. The chairman also said that a committee of the increase in food production that was to be set up in accordance with the government's government government government covenant has been planned late and eventually and has not yet completed. It was natural to do so before negotiations began. It's all on the same book. But I was going to go on a few things that may be all part of our conversation about the goods and the contracts. I have seen little progress in the discussion of how large the sectors or branches are with all the secondary activities around them, whether those of the products, distribution, or food processing. Or just all the other jobs that are created around agriculture, especially in the more scattered areas. This creates a lot of livelihood. The most recent figures are about 11 thousand land - related jobs in one way or another, except for all the other jobs related to the service sector, which farmers and others work together, e.g. Tourism service. The statistics are of interest in this relationship. There are, for example. Fifty-five thousand of the total agricultural resources in the country and 15% of the national labour market is linked to agriculture. Of these, 28% of agricultural work in the South, 31% in the northern part of the country, and some 1,400 jobs in the capital area are linked to the agriculture. It's often forgotten. The hardware contracts are also contracts for the people in the capital area, just as they do for the victims of slaughtering and processing. When we think about the food security covered by the bill, as well as what will follow, i.e. Tolls, we as little people in this large world must face the fact that demand for food is increasing. It is likely one of the most difficult and major subjects in the future to feed the inhabited earth. Hence, we must look to food security as one of the major issues facing us as a nation. Like so many others. You see, we are in a good position when it comes to the quality of water and valuable farming land and knowledge to make use of it. If we act wisely, we will have the opportunity to produce something of great value in food production. Whether we discuss meat or milk, vegetables, grain, berries, seasoning, or nuptials, we have a wide variety of productions from the farmers of the Icelandic language. There are a number of items to be listed, much more than many suspects produced by the farmers of the country. The quality of such products is especially based on sustainable use of the land and our water. However, agriculture has a long record of manufacturing, and it can be both time - consuming and expensive. Similarly, it is important for us to make good use of all the potential for growth so that we can meet the demand in changing products society. Since I mentioned the customs contract earlier, I'm going to talk only about what has to do with it. The propaganda being produced is generally kept out of the large parts of the grocery store, to be impressed, and often to raise negative talk about agriculture. As we observe that the products of the crop market proclaim a reduction of 10 to 12 percent in both dila and adult funds, we cannot help but say that there is a crying inconsistencies with the economic situation where growth and salination of lamb meat within the country, though. Similarly, world market prices are on the rise. Of course, everyone who wants to know that the few people who are living in a day market in Iceland have caused prices to rise, including on meat products. There is nothing to return to the products, farmers, or consumers. It's gonna land by the store. It also asks for the import of food as much as possible and is free and free. Insident food production has held back prices on food baskets over the past few years, since it has increased in prices of foreign goods. This emphasizes the need for us to produce Icelandic products. In the large context, it is worth considering that if the pigs and chicken farms collapse, the nuclear product that returns to higher prices for the remaining ones, e.g. cow farmers. The piece of pigs rolling all year around pays off the loss of the slaughterhouses in the short - term sheep bar. If this was to happen, I'm afraid that the best of sheep that are now with the lowest of the land would fall forever. So it hangs out with each other and takes into account when people talk about strength. I'd like to talk about the animal tour. Of course, the animal's well - being rules were new. But it is this inevitable cost, and it is high that farmers take on it, and there is very little strength from the public, much smaller than in neighboring countries. Sadly, many farmers find it difficult to meet these requirements. If we don't want to be just a few fish or pigs' farms, we'll have to do better. I don't talk about where young people have been investing and have little chance of improving these costs. We need to give it a little more time. I reiterate in this context our left green motion toward the demolition of combs in case of an animalisation. We'd like to use this opportunity to introduce the pedestrians rules through this contract. I hope there's a discussion between the 2nd and 3rd. As I spoke yesterday, agriculture plays an important role in the environment. It was noted that many farmers practiced agricultural and forestry with the goal of restoring and maintaining land quality, which is of utmost importance in the battle against climate change. One thing tourists want, and we know, is our nature, which has become a prime premise for tourism. Then, the Icelandic agriculture is part of our culture. There's a lot to think about. But finally: When we think in the large context, this increase is prosperity, population growth, lack of water, and a range of other sources of oil that mankind faces. Trends of climate change affect crops, and many in the big world demand new solutions for food production. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization has estimated between 2000 and 200,2030 have to increase food production by 60%. That's no small thing. At the same time, there is a growing demand for fuel as oil supply declines. This will increase the demand for biofuels and other renewable energy sources. As a result, food prices are increasing, as farmers harvest their crops used for energy, promoting the production of oil plants. There is much to do. For example, there is one basis for growing food security. Since farmers can produce their own foals, they are less inclined to import raw materials. In any case, it is important to consider our food security as a nation with all available provisions, for a changed world scene requires a new approach, both in thoughts and in solutions. We need to ensure strong food production that ensures the national food security in good cooperation with the farmers of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u29	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion a lot about the change in livestock and livestock contracts. It's been going on for quite some time. First, I wanted to use this opportunity to overemphasize the points involved in the Committee 2. A smaller part of the trade committee, where farm contracts are being reviewed, where the lack of consultations has been highly criticized. Why is he being criticized? Yes, because we have a huge deal here. In fact, it is a vision for domestic agriculture and how we want to see it develop because I have no doubt that many people will have. Every group member has a lot to offer when it comes to how we want to see agrienvironment. It is of utmost importance to have a strong domestic agriculture, especially in times in which we watch a future in which there is so much room for food and food. In particular, I refer to a second opinion presented here on another matter, which is considered to be the lower part of the State Department on the customs agreement that follows and points to the best security in Iceland, which is actually a very privileged position. When we look at such major questions regarding food security, food security, water farming, and so forth, it is of great importance that we have powerful agriculture and powerful food production. However, they do not agree on the ways in which they can achieve that goal. I personally believe that what we are going to pursue is a global agriculture in which environmental considerations are taken. These views are reviewed in a committee study of 2 smaller parts of the history of the year. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, including. how we can deal with the problems involved in using baits, how to establish a natural policy on how we use the land, that the agriculture is sustainable, that the cultivated and cultivated land is registered, and that we will be involved in some kind of work at a land-efficiency framework where active management will be one of the key factors. It also needs to be viewed as a global environmental influence, not just from the local bait land, but to create a climate effect. Therefore, for example, in terms of climate impacts, we recommend that there be an attack on such measurements, an effort to assess the methodology of environmental assessments of ecosystems or the carbon footprints of domestic agriculture, and a targeted action to reduce such contamination. There is something I hear, and all I try is that Icelandic farmers are very interested in it. They are interested in becoming greener, environmentally unstable, that their production is in harmony with environmental considerations. I feel an increased interest in organic farming, and I use this opportunity here to celebrate the proposed expansion of that support. I think there's a lot of parishion around it. We need to see how agriculture can become on a global scale, on a global scale. There are opportunities to do so. Iceland and I have particularly great opportunities to do so. We also need to look to the quality of life, how we can at the same time look to the best possible quality, and to make sure that waste will be minimal. I have, for example. Sometimes I wonder why we don't use more of the products that fall into the domestic market. I give them special consideration to a favorite thing I always discuss when I get to the point of sheep farmers, which is used yesterday; why is the use of sheep in the local market not a better use of sheep? I think these are the goals we should watch. That is why I come back to my lack of discussions, but there would certainly have been much more consultation in the pursuit of such a long - term commitment. In order to create a work environment, it is important that a general understanding is contrary to political groups. I agree with the viewpoints that came through. paritaprevir My daughter, Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney, found that working on the trade committee was doing a good job trying to improve this approach. It is expected that it will be increased in the coming years. But I think this raises general questions about how we are in decision-making when we are attending a work environment. This has been difficult. We must just watch that it has been difficult to make peace with political groups, e.g. when it comes to fishing or agriculture. And then we have to start by setting down our goals. If we can combine the aims of European agriculture to provide basics in food security and security, the Icelandic agriculture of environmental and quality, and that we agree on these goals, I can only imagine that by discussing these matters better, we will be able to make better sense of the methodology we use to achieve them. Of course, a person may wonder if there is no further progress in the trade between the government parties in view of the fact that at the same time the customs agreement is submitted to the council, where we are left green and our representative on the Foreign Affairs Committee. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, points out that analysis of the impact of this contract is very lacking. There's a lot of uncertainty about the costs and impacts on the economy and the environment. For example, it does not look at carbon footprints and climate impacts, and it is pointed out in the review of a carer's review that increasing the import of fresh agricultural products can result in health problems that the Icelandic government needs to be aware of. It is worth considering that these two are at the same time before the council. As a result, I am impressed that we do not necessarily approach matters in a fresh way and try to sit down and have a conversation about whether we can agree on our goals and try to find ways that will lead to that goal. I'm sorry about such fundamental issues, such as domestic agriculture, which we should truly be able to unite in as important and relevant to all of us, not just for the scattered settlements, but for all of us who live here, whether it is here in the capital area or anywhere else in the country. I don't see a reason for extending the discussion anymore. A great many things have already been done, so I'll finish my case here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u30	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for an excellent speech. I know that the senator's regimen is of great interest in sustainability, and I just want to ask if it doesn't feel like a lack of long - term and long - term programs that match both today and the necessary vision of how we can present ourselves with a special position on sustainability. And whether the senator feels that there is diversity in farms and also another type of use other than traditional uses on animals and land. I have personally been looking at what is called the global shipment of some extraordinary developments in a foreign land. When I look at the livestock contract and then all the discussion about Iceland being more sustainable and using our energy in a different way than this, I don't feel that way in this deal. It is like falling back not only in the last century but also in the last century.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u31	Mr. President. In my mind, agricultural issues are huge environmental issues, like what? A senator mentions, and also a huge public health issue. In the left movement, a green supply has a very important reason to connect these components, i.e. environment and public health. We have a nose for that opinion as long as possible. paritaprevir Rafney Electrolyney Magnúsdóttir indicates that government contributions should be supported by sustainable land use. This, of course, would include mental confusion. A senator well knows that we do not walk on our resources, causing them to demoralize or disappear. Involvement is part of these renewable resources. That is why I stressed in my talk that we should be watching to make a land - use framework for these factors. Then it's the climate. Farming is already very important in the context of environmental and climate issues. Although this article can have negative effects, it also has tremendous opportunities to have a positive influence on climate change. There we can discuss the production of agricultural products in the neighborhood of consumers so that we reduce the environ ment of transport. We can also look at vegetation, wetlands recovery, and other sources of agriculture that play a vital role in reducing climate impacts. Therefore, we suggest that a special consultation group be appointed to evaluate the labour agreements according to environmental assessment techniques. I think it's part of our ability to make more peace with our agriculture, which is this important industry because the opportunities are so great too. We have individual natural circumstances to form as we look at the results of the climatic industry. That cherries can be cultivated here in greenhouses so much better than those brought long distances from faraway parts of the world should be concerned about all the means of our parishes. [[The president calls.]] During recent years and decades, major progress has been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u32	President. That's exactly what I feel is lacking into the enormously narrow framework of contracts, exactly what the senator talks about. We do not offer that the creative power is new. The contract is very one-sided and it narrows down to the possibility of something new. I wondered if there might be a reason, and I don't know if it was done here at the council, making a long-term plan that would be a more elaborate and effective approach to it, for example. that it is absurd to be importing food, especially vegetables, which are very easy and easy to grow here. However, it has been that way, e.g. The gardeners have received very little support compared with other farm types. The appeal to the energy you've seen in such a way as giant companies, such as aluminium companies, are quite amazing policies and must need to revise overall. That's exactly what I've been found to be lacking in policy in this country. It's extremely narrow as these contracts are and it seems to be, I'd like to say, start hitting it really hard. I wanted to ask you what. A senator agrees with me that there is a greater need for a much wider view of this sect, for as the senator entered and I agree with them, farming is important if it is practiced properly and in the way of nature and the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u33	Mr. President. I agree with the last words of why. Senator. Perhaps there is talk of farm contracts and change in agricultural products that do not necessarily reflect all the new things that are being done in domestic agriculture. Of course, there is a lot to do. I often feel that the discussion is really tight and focused on this factor, i.e. how the government's support is with agriculture, without talking about what's going on and the goals I mentioned above about the environment, human health and other things, and we're going into the debate a little bit. That's what I miss. I would have liked to see more extensive consultations before these changes and these contracts came in so that we could have opened up to the discussion that I am absolutely sure would have brought members of the council closer to each other in the approach. I'm sure we can get together on many of the top goals. Hv. A senator mentioned in his previous answer to his diversity, i.e. Biodiversity. It also plays a vital role in agriculture, e.g. already involved in domestic farms, domestic plant cultures. I think that in all this discussion, we've often seen fun things happen, that I recall when Iceland's National Farming University of Innunciation and Iceland's Art University had a date where farmers and designers joined together to produce new products from domestic agricultural products. Although much interesting and interesting things have been done in this regard, there are a huge number of people who have lost their potential. What I hate about this whole matter is that it lacks such a discussion. A man would have liked to see a national meeting on agri-gri-environmental affairs, where we would have summed up the results and brought them into politics, into the farmers' profession, and could work out a conversation that we could have made more comfortable at the council so that the image of this case group was not a debate about farm agreements but that we agree on a vision of a future view for a powerful domestic agriculture. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u34	A respectable president. It's been very interesting to observe this discussion about farm contracts. Many things have come up and are a good reason for us to do as much - as - long contracts that will last as long as we do. It's sad that we, who were going to proclaim a change of practice after a crash, are back in the same old process, back to working behind closed doors, and not to be left in doubt that everything that is presented in this contract is the best use of our common tax money. It is very sad that we cannot do this in more cooperation and more harmony, especially in order to build trust, this trust that we need so much in this society, between the government and the nation, the council and the nation, and the streets, with the nation itself. We don't have to question the honesty of farmers, but I feel that these agricultural laws and the discussion that has taken place about them, especially how the deal was handled, had a bit of the honesty, which is very bad. There are a lot of things in this market deal that are so nice that mine knows, and I hope that that work will be continued. Then I'm especially talking about the Icelandic goat population. Farming is often around the world. There's something that we often forget about this discussion, how much countries over the years have had to strengthen their agriculture. In our current discussion of the market agreements, the basis is to argue about them in particular the concept of liberalism and socialism and how far the state should go to help some particular profession, how much government activity should be done by some particular profession. I agree that the government should not directly interfere with the business. But at the same time, I feel that the state and society have certain social obligations to stay out in the country, provide food security, ensure that we have a wide variety of land culture and maintain a certain knowledge in many parts of the country about how to cultivate our country. There have been times when people have simply forgotten how their land works. That's not good. I don't have much basis for evaluating the quality of individual teams in this contract, but I agree with the criticism that has been presented regarding the eating of milk and the gathering of milk, and I also ponder over the monopolitan status of milk at the Icelandic market when it comes to milk. There's a lot of innovation in this sector, and then a measure of freedom is needed. I think that what we're doing here is further building a certain monopoly position for certain authorities who have been on the market so far, who own 80%, if not more, share in the milk market. And if we have someone who has this market position, we still need to be competitive. That's what we see, for example. with new cow farms and dairy work like Eagle, we hear very critical voices from ice production. Icelanders are covered in ice. This should be something we should take advantage of, especially after the court's last conviction due to the Galaconta on monopoly and market, which was not particularly good. It's time we took these systems for effective review. These code systems we have are simply not good. Of course, I'm glad we're making a long-term plan, making plans in the future. It is something that the Icelandic government has naturally been criticized for, unable to plan long - term. But I think that the basis for long-term programmes is a consultation, a transparency, to build trust between different people and to find compromises when we have as complex and as large language as here, especially when it comes to sheeping and milk production. It's very controversial how this is going to work. We need to make far more peace. I don't have much reason to have my case any further. I welcome the debate that has been held at the council. She should have happened sooner. We should have talked about these things before the deal was made. I'll take my heart for what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said that we need to change our work. It is not good enough how we decide how we will share this common tax money, which is made up of such commitments as ten years in advance. We've come to another place in democracy but to do things like this behind closed doors. I hope that next time, if it's not possible to resolve the agreement, if it's a good deal or something like that, it's done in a much more consultation, there'll be much more transparency in their agreements and a much greater social discussion of their need, benefits, and defects.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u35	Madam President. Undeniably, discussions about the market agreement have been intense and practical, and they have also established the tax agreement available to the council for a discussion that will not be until tomorrow. I'd like to end this discussion, since I can't be with the discussion to explain just a minority of my aluminium on the job board for a review of the issues with the State Department, where these issues are undeniably playing together in this field of agricultural activity and have also been here in the discussion of the labour agreement. Unfortunately, the proposals of a customs agreement group and new equipment protocols from June 2016 up too much to offset the changed labour conditions set out in certain areas of agriculture, and in part agrienvironmental measures, will be faced if the customs contract is to be implemented. This applies to articles such as poultry and pig farms that have to deal with a huge increase in competition with the introduced production of the lead-in period the contract provides for the expected changes and far too direct support for these and, in fact, others, such as beef production, to meet expenses for new policy measures. It is inevitable to criticize the design of this customs agreement with the European Union. The contract was concluded and signed by Iceland without any consultation and without any access to farmers. The Councils of the Convention apparently had limited knowledge of what was written, as illustrated by the following questions raised on the basis of specific matters and how the work would be conducted, but it was found that the distribution of several important factors was very difficult. Whether hundreds of tons of topotecan are calculated based on muscle or bone-related meat levels, for example, has a major impact on the outcome of the contract. Preparation to ensure quality, loyalty, and wholesome large quantities of imported food appears to be small and surprising. There is an increasing awareness of the damaging effects of high antibiotic use in food production, since the risk of resistant bacteria is thought to be one of the major threats to future health. In the United States, drug use is minimal in agricultural production, and there has also been great success in fighting Campylobacter and salmonella infections, which are widely troubled in other countries. The warnings given by a cohesive surgeon and other health authorities should be taken in this regard very seriously and be taken at high risk for consumer health. The cost of previously unsupervised livestock diseases may also be enormous, and the effects of potential diseases on animal travel would be extremely negative. Monitoring appears to be insufficient, as the production of the products brought here will be done under proper conditions for animal travel. However, the demand for these materials would be in harmony with the fact that the country is now infested with ambitious animal control rules. It's a good thing, and as it happens, Iceland is in the highest order in terms of animals'equipment and well - being. It cannot be overlooked that at high costs it is high, and it is most unfair to plan domestic production without any meaningful support to compete for the macro import at the same time as production costs increase, even when products produced in unsolvable conditions for the costs of animal travel and the benefits and rights of employees and for the benefits of land use. All the diagnostic work under the influence of the contract is lacking, and questions about how the contract and what it brings are compatible with environmental considerations, what impact will be on domestic production and food production, the secondary effects on other sectors of agriculture than on the poultry and pig farms, etc. In the spirit of the Paris Conference on action to address climate change, all countries, including Iceland, must do everything within their power to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and minimise human activities. The increase in food transport between countries is in close harmony with such efforts. On the other hand, there is the value of the production produced by domestic gardens and greenhouses, wholesome quality products that go directly to the market here without transport from countries through related emissions, and new green energy is being used in production. An analysis of all of the above, and more, such as the likely outcome of the contract, would have been required before the contract was signed, but the minimum analysis work is to be performed before the Council concluded. So, my conclusion in the memory of the labour agreement to this customs contract, which undeniably plays a great role in the provisional agreement as discussed here, is to suggest that the review of the contract will be postponed and the time will be used for the next month to complete the necessary diagnostic work on the effects of the contract, implement adequate adaptation and supportive measures for those affected should be agreed with and prepared at the same time so that the interests of domestic production will be maintained, loyalty and health reasons, animal protection criteria, labour markets and consumers's policy, to name something. In this context, I would like to emphasize the proposal I have made, the change in animal choice. I'd like that proposal to go between the 2nd and 3rd. to the employment committee for a discussion on suggesting that those who are exposed to animal possession and violate animal success laws will be deprived of government support. I think it's very important to discuss this matter and that these things are addressed not only in animal travel laws but also in the agricultural laws we have here for discussion. Otherwise, I thank the good and much discussion and the understanding I think it is important that in this country it is strong and good food production and that farmers'security is assured and that the perimeters and the weaknesses of sheep farming and working in the next three years are important to prevent farmers in the areas from moving away from their farms because of the depletion of their bone payments but rather all means of strengthening their habitats and supporting farms in ways that will be considered to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u36	Madam President. This has been a wealth of discussions and discussions about the opinion of the Commission on farming contracts, as they are called in daily speech, for which I would like to thank you. Many views have been torn, natural, and conflicting views. Of course, we do not expect that there is one opinion or complete harmony in this matter. Not at all. Opinions are natural. We're dealing with a major course in Iceland's most scattered settlements, it's only natural for humans to have many opinions. However, there are some points that I would like to discuss and that have been discussed in this discussion that I consider to be a reason for answering at the end of the discussion in some way or to try to explain a particular point. First of all, about the time and the review rules, I'd like to say that here under here we have a frame of 10 years. Previously, farm agreements had been made for seven years with no remuneration regulations. There have been five years of equipment contracts at a time, but for the first time, this frame is being made for a long time. Then we have two strong reviews during the contract. The first cycle of this review shall be completed in 2018 and then will take value of a revised agreement or a new form, or whatever the material in the review of which we specifically agree on the meeting group, on the discussion of the agriculture. That is exactly what was stated in the discussion today, the need to take a national interest in agriculture, which we make specific suggestions to approach. There is no doubt about it in our minds. The employment committee, or majority of the Committee, is, in fact, under this review, the duration, the money, the duration of the contract. The revision must be carried out in such a way that everything in that material is under control. I would also like to answer that, of course, it is not that this agreement provided that Iceland will negotiate with other countries on certain aspects of free trades that can touch the industry. Not at all. We're in no such deed here, and it's never been, and it's never been. There has been much talk about the leading and the discussion. I just want to say that the thread in this discussion is just that we should have discussions and conversation, and that's exactly what we ran over in the reviews and visitors to the Committee how important it is for a industry like agriculture. I think a few jobs in Iceland can really boast more about their future, at least when we've been through the conversation that's supposed to be here for the next few years. Store contracts really are so much more than just dimes and changers. The foundation of contracts is a number of other factors that we can trace since then but that we have less discussions here, but maybe we should do higher things. Of course, it is the opposite that farmers remain in the country's custody, practice their own land - healings, as they have done in the past decades and for a long time. Farmers continue to maintain individual farms, farms that we have accepted international commitments to protect, protect, and protect. We are preparing to continue to produce wholesome and good food here. This may be the point that I would like to pause because many speakers came on it, and we try to make it particularly high in our committee list, both in terms of information provided to consumers, to present the burdensome requirements we have laid on Icelandic agriculture that we feel are required to make the product more wholesome and better in recent years and how we will try to continue that course. A great deal of this has been discussed with foods of genetically modified origins. That is exactly what we propose as part of the group of consultations to discuss, and the conversation of the next few years should be able to get the bottom of the discussion about the future of genetically modified plants in the feed of animals. I am personally convinced of this and have previously told it in this discourse that we should take the step of not allowing such use, and we should be able to mark Icelandic goods in this way. Only about healthy livestock and what is bad. Magnúsdóttir In her talk about antibiotic resistance and the defenses we need to make in order to protect ourselves from those who may even suffer. administered with food. That's a big job. A few speakers discussed how we could do so in the future. However, this is a matter that more and more health - care authorities in many countries are taking hold of. I think it's time, despite our fine position in this country and despite our limited use of drugs, that we're busy with these things. We also have relatively few livestock diseases, and all of these are the things we must fit at any given time. Our committee magazine considers the results of a customs group, a white - meat group is sometimes called, and we make his proposals very high in the figure, but it has since shown that we have somehow successful them. I'd like to say that more than a part of the employment committee is in no way to reduce the value of the proposals listed there. I think they're each in its own way very necessary. Although we'll discuss each and every one of the main problems of their implementation, in particular the proposals for how to sort out customs and how to use them to improve and support projects for the implementation of rules of equipment have been discussed, I just want to draw attention to the fact that the more part says directly and that it is important that the first procedure can be performed and celebrate the further assistance of those materials. It is our message, even though we make comments about how it was carefully set up in the suggestions we published in our committees and, as a result, is linked to laws on the meaning of the income stores of the state's funds. So I don't want to say that there's some way out of the way or hide on our part to put it the way it is done. There are most livestock that face a great need for investment, not just poultry and pig farmers, but that's just as much of a need for investment in cattle farming. You can be concerned about how such projects are going to be financed, and I think it's one of the projects we have to settle over in the next few years how credit cases are common. It is not particularly attached to agriculture in the region, but it is certainly a worthwhile subject for discussion. We've also stopped a little bit from wholesome and sound equipment by other forms of friendship I'd like to put around here and we're talking about in our Committees, which are the competitive conditions set by the Icelandic agriculture. I find it not necessarily a very healthy competition offered by the Icelandic farmers if they are bound by regulations that go further than in competitive people or their colleagues in other countries, both in stockhouses, on their authority to use products for greater production efficiency, etc. It can't be a healthy competition if we're going to even it in the import of this country and don't make any comments about it. We also realize that we have accepted terms, international contracts, and other aspects of our inability to provide technical restrictions on that subject, but this is certainly a job to put our hands on. In another assembly, a respectable president, held before the council on public shopping, people talk a lot about competition, that there must be a competitive evaluation before going to a large auction in the great government shopping world. I've thought about such competitive values a lot. I think that the argument that spreads from the great market could lead to the destruction of entire sectors at home, in itself, as we know well from the agricultural world, we may be able to destroy the entire sector. You might want to discuss competitive evaluations in some way when it comes to the market that Icelandic farmers compete with. But I remind you again that we also have certain obligations that we must not violate in the international agreements that we have made on technical business restrictions. A respectable president. Other factors and them will no doubt be further presented in discussions about the next conference, on the customs agreement, and there are many side effects on the agricultural industry in the country and the food industry, which use from other sources. Icelandic agriculture. I don't think there's anything else to say but that there's also a matter of long-term defense of domestic agreements and agriculture. We make up a special subject in this regard for those using Icelandic milk powder and draw attention to the fact that in the summer milk powder was dropped to the food producers by 20%. We suggest that the prices of farms, which will continue to work according to our proposal, make a rule that the Icelandic milk powder will follow in a certain way world market prices. Anyway, I'd like to say that when we reduce milk powder to commercial food development in Iceland, we really don't go to any other pocket but to our own farmers. This is the cold reality. I'll be happy to admit that I'm the sponsor of creating Icelandic industrial companies all opportunities to use the domestic materials for production and production products, but that account we can't only turn to Icelandic farmers. My position in such matters lies ahead. We take no less seriously the discussion that most speakers have made about the loyalty of Icelandic consumers to Icelandic farming products and their good awareness of its loyalty and wholesome health. A recent survey tells us that 82% of Icelanders like Icelandic meat more than anything else. It's worth a lot of money for Icelandic agriculture. He has nothing to fear. It will continue to have dramatic adjustments in changing times. We can talk here about crowns and money, systems, customs, etc., but we're primarily talking about employment that doesn't protect just all these benefits, making food and creating jobs in scattered settlements and urban areas, it's also the industry that preserves the culture and history of the rural population, which we're inclined to so weak. This is a work that is a grieving bar in the rapidly growing tourism and tourism industry in Iceland, and it is important to them. We want to change the approach to negotiations and policies for Icelandic agriculture right away to create the environment we need so that Icelanders, Icelandic consumers and our guests visited by the country can drive through beautiful and prosperous countryside, well built up where farmers are proud of their farms, where farmers are proud of their livestock and their crops, and most certainly notably their crops. - Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u37	President. I'm just gonna hold on a second. I totally agree with the final words of what. A senator and I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't want to keep the country built and doesn't realize that it has to be done by strengthening farmers or strengthening agriculture. That's not what this decision is about. It's about the methods used. Hv. A senator says that it should start a conversation now - and I know that it has been said many times, but because I didn't feel quite clear, I'm going to try one more time -- nationally on how to strengthen the agriculture. This is supposed to take three years. I ask, "Why can't you just tie this deal up for three years and say, " Then we're going to make a new one? ' Why is it that this is a stuck reexamination principle that I, for example, am working on? I'm sorry, don't I trust you? Why can't we just say that when people put so much emphasis on national conversation? It should have been done by now, but let's leave it alone. It starts now. Why can't this contract apply for three years and then start over?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for her answer. I would like to reiterate what I earlier said in my talk that the national conversation we preach is the natural conversation that had to have been taken a lot earlier, and we accepted it back in the past. We did so after the 1991 national convention, we took it in the process of making contracts that were conducted in 2002,2004, etc. We then had, at the time of contracts that are about to be canceled, experienced a great shock that I don't have to describe. A member of the council, where we were more or less involved in temporary operations. Then we went into the European Union application, and all of it made it possible for us to postpone a wider conversation about policies in Icelandic agriculture. Wait a minute. A senator's respect for what we're doing. I'll say again: In the past, agricultural contracts were made up to seven years of age. Now we make a 10-year-old frame. Why do we say frames? Because we're starting a road trip to a industry that has a long manufacturing process. She'll have to see where we're headed. Yet, during these ten years, we plan to open the issue and negotiate the future, change the emphasis, try to measure what we have done well, and what we need to do about it. The Senator simply needs to trust what we say. The reexamination arrangement does not bind hands. It's open. Everything's on board.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u39	A respectable president. All employment needs to apply to the future. Long manufacturing processes in agriculture, long investment in fishing roads, long investments in air transports, long investments in everything. All jobs need to look to the future. It is not just the agriculture that needs to be done. I still think the senator is stuck in answers, I say it at the moment. I'm also telling you exactly as it is, unfortunately, I don't fully trust this revised convention in three years. I'm sorry. But I certainly hope, a respectable president, at what point. A senator is right in that he can trust it, and I am wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u40	A respectable president. This is now the sharp difference between the long-term thinking that needs to be in a business such as agriculture or air management, etc., which I do not intend to minimize the need to build long-term thinking and long-term planning, is that we are dealing with living animals and we are dealing with vegetation-based production. The seeds that were sown in spring bear fruit in the next year, and the calf that happens today in cow will probably not be beef until two and a half years, etc. That's what we're talking about with long-term manufacturing and delinquency. The Senator may try to splice it if he wants to. The other thing is, we're putting up with something that I don't think a lot of people have necessarily expected. We're about to go on a mission that's a great deal of reconciliation, make a deal about Icelandic agriculture, and take it out of the way of the past few years. Some people call it a debate or whatever it is that people take to mouth, but I don't think people have for a long time come up with a discussion about commercial policy in Iceland with as much ambitious goals as we're starting right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-31-143.u41	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change to the U.S. election law. This bill or these requisition proposals are technical and focus primarily on changing the election day from what is traditional. Instead of choosing this spring, let's vote this fall. 1st par. It is a matter of turning into the law of the vow of the city of Seltiannenes, according to the name of the city that is called in the law, which is called in the possession of the law, the place of Seltiannees. Then there is the main section of the bill, Article 2, paragraph 2. I am going to read a paper or an explanation. ... withauthority of the President's permission: It is proposed that the Icelandic citizens living abroad will be enrolled if they submit to a suitable vote application at the latest September 29, 2016. They then have the right to vote for the election that is planned in the fall of a coming one. Other than that, we're due to the vote. 2.g. An election song. This is a requirement for the voter if an application delivers the National Book of Iceland by midnight, September 29, 2016. The candidates are now able to fetch a form on Iceland's National Publications Index, www.sk.is. The form needs to fill out and sign its own hand and send them to the national files by email or to scan attachments by e-mail or electronic mail. It is important that you receive an application before delay. Otherwise, a suitable application will be applied, which will be carried out after a delay since December 1st, 2016. The Icelandic citizens living abroad who had already sent a satisfactory vote application, which would apply since December 1, 2016, in the same way received a vote for the total elections planned in the fall. Other than that, we're due to the vote. 2.g. An election song. The National Constitution of Iceland informs the candidates of this change and sharement of rural governments. Then there is really no more. It's a board of directors and patrols to present this issue. This is easily understood and essential to legalization for future elections. I don't think it's necessary to refer to the committee, but I hope it will go to votes as soon as possible.
