ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u1	Mr. President. I'm sorry, but I can't say anything. This was yesterday's General Assembly meeting to discuss the end of the council. There was no conclusion at that meeting. There's no idea of it in the board, apparently, how to complete the council. V.E.G. Because of this, the president decided to break up a meeting yesterday and thus give the authorities the opportunity to try to work out what was to be done at the end of the council, but that time has, unfortunately, not been used. So here we go again to Congress, a work plan has expired, we have no idea what the priorities of the greater part are, and we are in complete uncertainty about the continuation of Congress work. I'm sorry about that, because this has been an attempt to make a serious decision, both in spring and since August. We have stressed the approach of matters, and I feel sorry if the more part is going to betray the confidence we have put upon him to try things out so that we are wrong and that we are going to go to the council on this issue. I'm very sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u2	A respectable president. I want in the highest. A president will determine what has changed since he broke up a council meeting. 18 afternoon yesterday. He had earlier delayed a meeting and then terminated because there was no basis for continuing the discussion, since the presidents of the council were not aware of what the majority of them want to do with a program. We have long passed the planned period, the promise of Bjarni son of Benediktsson, chairman of the Independence Party, to shorten the terms of one assembly is already betrayed. We must ask a respectable president if something has happened in the meantime that we are not aware of. Has anything appeared on the part of the board of directors what his purpose is in this conference, or what he wants or whether he has any direction? We don't know that nothing has changed since the president himself broke up. 18 Yesterday, because no one knew which way to sail.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u3	The only thing that has changed on the program today is the date on the magazine, as everyone knows. Other than that, there has been little that the president is aware of. The president, who has had discussions with the executives of the federal parties, explained the situation, wants to reiterate his opinion that he feels very strongly that a meeting is taking place with the leaders of the political parties in an effort to find some conclusion in this matter. The President feels that the uncertainty that exists today is unacceptable. In view of the decision made by the president yesterday to postpone the meeting for a while and then to cancel a meeting. 18, Still, he felt that it was normal to begin the council today, confident that there would be an attempt to communicate here and to make at least a stop. further on how we are going to complete this assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u4	A respectable president. I want to thank the President for the information in his speech earlier. I'd like to agree with the members of the council who have spoken before that it's a little strange that we're back here with the same schedule as yesterday's meeting ended because of uncertainty about the rest. The chairman's meeting took place yesterday's afternoon and stood for continuation, but nothing has been heard. It's a pleasure to hear that it's the highest. However, the president has heard from the officials of the government. It's embarrassing, we're in the process, we're in a campaign campaign, we're receiving orders to attend a meeting here and there in the country. Of course, our role here is, not to be members of the political parties, but to be a public servant and to be a member of the Senate during the assembly. I'm waiting for the highest. The president is eager to bear in mind when deciding on the program and the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u5	A respectable president. We were given a list of cases yesterday, which the government groups seemed to have agreed to have agreed that they wanted to finish. If you go over it and try to figure out how to figure out how to do a low-life speech lesson for each case that seems to me, it's just the way it is. If we're going to finish this council, people are going to have to sit down and talk. I believe the president should be made aware of the officials of the administrations, that they did not use last night better than in fact, testifying to try to get to the bottom of this matter. It's 24 days before the election's over, 24 days. There are multitudes of volunteers outside this councilhouse who want to get into a campaign, get attention, get into the debate. In the meantime, we're here, but the government's point men are all out in a campaign somewhere. This is where the rest of us sit and try to keep it going. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. This is a disgrace to the Allied Council of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I suggest that the president end this meeting and summon the directors of the board of directors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u6	A respectable president. In view of what has been presented here, what the government has told us so far, I believe a respectable president is quite optimistic about something changing during the conferences. I could repeat the talk that we have held for some time. Nothing has changed. You've got a conversation, and there's some list that's obviously out of the map. It's 24 days to the election. By the end of the week, it'll be three weeks. The ability of the groups to organize and participate in a campaign is about to be influenced. It's a very serious, respectable president, and neither to the Congress nor to the general practice in this regard. I would like to ask a respectable president, " What does he think will change the government's attitude regarding this multilingual list? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u7	That question would be appropriate to refer to the rulers of the governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u8	A respectable president. The political part is out of the council, he's out of work. I spent almost four hours on a budget board yesterday on an important subject here on the program, the pension business of public employees. There were two members of the administrative body and both leaving the council. Again this morning, the same two were alone in the budget. A respectable president. Do you need further witnesses? There is no senator who plans to reelect the council. They're not coming. This isn't working. A financial committee was arranged for two mornings in a row that shows no reelectors except those who do not intend to reelect. This is a serious matter. V.E.G. The President has to take over the council board, he has the tools and equipment. He will have to pause at meetings until the administrative issue brings up a list of issues, and it is obvious that there can be no disagreements, for the time to discuss differences is out when the work programme is over. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u9	A respectable president. Last night, the president showed independence when he canceled or broke a meeting. We weren't here last night because there's nothing going on about where the rest will be. Today, it is odd that we should go into the same situation today. I would like to ask the president for independence and show that the council doesn't stand and sits as it seems to the executives. I didn't give you what we're going to do here today if a respectable president is going to make a meeting. I'd like to ask, "Do you think President is normal to continue here while you're at the highest level? " The government or the gentlemen in charge, don't talk to us in the memory of the section or the president?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u10	A respectable president. I fully understand that the president of the council is in a very difficult situation right now. In fact, it is now that he is testing whether he will delay the Commission or the legislation of the legislature board. President of the Generals, we demand you to stand up for us now, members of the Allied Parliament, and take decisive action. I think it would be right to postpone or cancel this meeting and not invite a new meeting. Whether it takes an hour, a day or a week doesn't matter, we don't know what we're doing here. It's a show. It's not working. The political part is not mentioned. I was at a meeting this morning at a General Education Committee and there were two members of the board. That's the situation. We can't, because of the Senate's respect, let it ram like that day after day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u11	A respectable president. I think it's safe to state and assume that the directors of the board are working according to some plan. They work according to plan. They have these strands in their hands. They've gone campaigning. What's a huge and enormous concern for democracy in this country in the leading election is that others don't know anything about this plan, have no access to this plan, know nothing about it. We're not sure what to do. You're right. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason points out in the News magazine today, this is a complaint to the ESE, Security and Cooperation Agency. This is where the legislation of the legislature council is being taken advantage of. There's abuse of power here. Not just in the middle of the season, we're going to vote in a few days like that, in these months. [[The president calls.]] People abuse their positions. It must be taken firmly, the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u12	Mr. President. It is just as we have seen, and there is every reason to consider whether there is any further reason to handle the matter. We have the longest council of history, this is where it came from. It has shown how the committee's design is these days. I was sitting at two meetings this morning, and it had to be postponed to a fundraiser because there was no more to take the case out of the majority. There was a meeting of information at a General Education Committee where there were only two majority agents. This is where people stop their work at the council, as we have noted, they're just in a campaign, having a conversation with voters, which they're supposed to be doing. But we're also supposed to be talking to voters. It's not the privileged matter of the government classes. There are a few more senators here in the hall, at least at this time. But I respect it to President to have decided to cancel a meeting yesterday in view of the fact that nothing is happening. I would have considered it wise to do the same today. Until people come to the table and do something intelligent, we should just postpone a meeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to ask a president if he doesn't think it's right to intervene when it's so in the wake of each committee that the members of the Commission are not doing their job. Does the President count that as normal? Does the president think there is a need to intervene in some way, discuss it with members of the government? Doesn't he think it's reprehensible to cancel meetings, postpone meetings, etc. Because the board of directors has gone campaigning? I feel as if a respectable president would intervene in this situation. Nothing happened here on Monday. Nothing happened here yesterday. It's heading for nothing here today either. It doesn't move anything. Mr President has got to cancel a meeting. We've got to end this Council 145 and go to the election. It is undefeated to humiliate the council in the way this is being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u14	In view of the information presented here at committee meetings, the president will try to contribute to the normal attendance at committee meetings. Of course, it is obvious that such attendance at committee meetings is not possible to perform the commissioning work for cleaning. The president will have through it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u15	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that. The President is going to look into this with a man on committees. Yesterday, I was at a meeting of a professional station, where only three members of the board of directors sat while being taken out and covered with big and important issues, such as creating an electrical cable to Back-up. I ask, " Why do I have the important conversation if people aren't even going to listen? ' The administrative part should have plenty of members of the Parliament who can replace them if anyone falls into action. The situation is that on Monday there was not a minister in question time, which we have otherwise required. V.E.G. The secretary of finance was not there, chief. Interior ministers were not there, for they were in charge of their campaign campaigns. I'd like to say that if the President isn't going to end the council then let's just stay here until October 28th, and we'll use this MRI in our campaign. [[The president calls.]] It's going to be tough for a board of directors who don't see their own worth in coming to work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u16	Mr. President. It is to reduce the situation at the council today, it is very sad. I have no doubt that the highest. The president is not happy that the administrative body cannot reach a conclusion in its affairs, to complete this council. I'm thinking, "There's no way to stop. " It's as if this government doesn't want to let go of the board because she knows she won't get it back in her hands. But somebody has to help her with it, whether it's a psychologist or someone else. There are a lot of things going on in the votes, and we know ministers are cutting tables here and there, and they have nothing to do with the council. Me and the highest. President should have been in Stykkisolmi today, where the Federal Union is meeting in the West. Other members of the district may find themselves there in a fine manner. But those of us who believe we have to do Congress work are here today. It is not an invitation to do this. Of course, the president's just to say, "I don't think any assembly meeting until the conclusion is made with these generals. " [[The president calls.]] That's not something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u17	A respectable president. I had a hearing with a panel of members of the administration this morning, both of the council members, who are quitting. The committee has two beacons, and they did not show up because they were doing business elsewhere, one in the district, and the other on a snowboard in the town. This is what the point witnesses in this room would like to be doing, one by one, from the board of administrations. While they would like to be out in the election, they do their campaigns, which are viewed as when a council is supposed to be here and finish their work. It is clear how this hall is manned that the political pointes do not view it as such. It is their first assignment to be elsewhere in campaign struggles. In this room, there is one odd political party in the district of the administrations, and that's why. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson. The rest are all out in the field, working in a campaign. [[The president calls.]] It's not okay. V.E.G. I want the President to stop this council and tell these people to come to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u18	A respectable president. I feel like I'm throwing stones out of a glass house when it comes to criticizing the attendance of members of Congress. It is only natural that members of Congress do not subject themselves to the confusion I would like to call so. All of this has its own precedent. [[The point is: What example?]] The job committee used to criticize a halibut of attendance - I'm prepared to publish the list of attendances on a professional committee during the winter if you feel that it would be an advantage to inform attendance on the meeting. Here's a perplexing discussion of the dissidents. There's another side of this coin, and it's called a proprietary. We've experienced this before, during the last term, did not lack the discussion that there was a filibuster. In front of us is a program on which we have a body of interpretation proposals for a four-year transport program, an intermediate phase bill, a general shopping bill, a growth and insurance bill, a bill for support to buy at the first apartment and a bill on the insurance policy of pensions and pension funds. These are all the big cases that have been spoken about ending this council. I think we should just start a topic discussion on these matters instead of having to witness the cruel discrepancies we have here. That's exactly why nothing happened here on Monday and Tuesday. The president has not wanted to have the look on the council that appears in the form of all the language that stands for the lesser part. [[The president calls.]] Let us hope that it will die and we will be able to finish it. [[The president calls.]] There's good reason for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u19	A respectable president. It's a little crazy to accuse my share of filibusters when a respectable president has decided to end meetings in a row of two days of trouble. The majority of things have not agreed on what to do. [[Set up on a transport board.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] The two towers of speech that a respectable president would like to take place between the ruling parties do not seem to pay much back. Simply put, there seems to be a crisis of existence, and I'm asking if there's no way of being out of control in this country. Is something happening? Is there a government crisis going on? Don't the senators want to talk? What's going on? We want a list of priorities. We have now asked for it for four or five months. This is a spontaneous requirement, three and a half weeks to the election. Will a respectable president end this week or will we continue to enter the campaign with the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u20	A respectable president. In fact, it is fascinating to get in the front of a talk. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, hearing him accusing other members of the seminar, the man who one of the men in this hall has grown so desperate as to say from this chair that he held the same speech twice. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] A respectable president. Never have we walked that way. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson thought he was here during his last term. The key point in this matter is that we want to set exactly the same criteria as during the last terms. After the last election session is concluded, there will be no cases taken care of except those who are at peace. This leads to the very nature of the matter because time is over. To continue meetings is to violate democracy principles and equal groups to wage a campaign. When important matters, such as the pension rights of public employees, are discussed in a six - hour budget total, and only two members of the members of the administration who are on the way out, this is not a normal therapy. It's embarrassing for the government parties and shows that these games are being made. [[The president calls.]] There's no real job here. It's just that the government side is not fighting a media campaign. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u21	Mr. President. I'm going to commend the President for the conference board and especially yesterday. The president was right in not holding a meeting, and he would have done the right thing today while the situation is as it is. I think we need to remember why we are in this situation. That is because in spring the government decided to try to extend its life for a few months and said that it was necessary because it had an important issue left unsupervised. True, when asked, the government could not answer the important issue, but three were soon mentioned. There was a package of housing, a livestock contract, and a tax agreement, and there was an evacuation of funds. [[Top of the line, we're all done.]] The house - to - house affairs were finished with the heavy work of the government opposition. Our stock market agreements and toll agreements are over, and the currency will be waiting for the 3rd. Ready to be decommissioned. Basically, it's over. But then comes the disintegrating administrative part, and he suddenly wants to print out the Constitution and get it supplied. You can't make it anymore because both sides of the board are in chaos. [[The president calls.]] The independent party is overwhelmed by a dissociation into expansion and the advance of the logs between the letters. There's no one to talk to, to no one to negotiate, and there's nothing else to do, Mr. President, but to stop this. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u22	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, I was greatly disappointed that nothing came out of a meeting of the officers. But I thought it was the best. A president did well when he cut off meetings because everyone could not see the meeting. I'd like to encourage the highest. The president to continue the proceedings in his own hands and to postpone our meetings. It's amazing to listen to what's happened. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson comes here and talks like we've had all the time in the world, like the Allied Work Programme has not disappeared, as if here are weeks here to work and leave them in a normal process during the council. It's not like that. The plan is out, it's up to the head of the councils to bring up the issues they stress to finish, sit down and negotiate, and while it's not clear, we can't keep talking here in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u23	A respectable president. The government situation has stuck to its side, but it seems that the government groups are not going to do so. During the spring season, a number of cases were successfully set aside on the basis that this election period would be shortened by a short assembly at the end of August and by a promise made by Bjarni son of Benediktsson, chairman of the Independence Party. A new assembly was to begin on Tuesday in September; we have arrived in October. Now, more than all the issues that the administrative body stressed have been settled, and then there is just a new pile of issues, many very distrusted and totally unprepared for the release of the council. A respectable president. I don't know any less time to campaign than three weeks in Western democracy. [[The president calls.]] Saturday is three weeks for election, and I ask: Should we give here less time than anywhere else to engage in a democratic campaign?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u24	Mr. President. It is not up to the government to report any action during this brief fall council. On the other hand, governments and the highest. The government's not doing what they say. Now the patience is out, and I pray for it. President to act. It is quite unacceptable for the government to attend a meeting to do its job during the administration, huh? Prosecutors and independence party members are in the districts to speak to voters. I think it's my job to keep the government's opposition to work at the council while they're going into the districts to talk to voters. [[The president calls.]] There was a need to postpone a meeting, a government case could not be taken out, a majority opinion on a financial committee, because the majority were not allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u25	A respectable president. The pressure at the council now would not be good for business, either here on land or elsewhere. We can compare that here are 63 senators at work, or at least the pay, and the effectiveness is not seen in these days. If you were a business worker, you would never let the number of people on the payroll be kept open without anything to happen. We are under obligation at the General Assembly of the Icelanders to walk ahead by example and to prove and prove in our way that we have come here to earn our money. We certainly do, those who are in the opposition. I'm here as your deputy and this week's reward. But now I'm here on the third day without helping, except for such a short discussion of the council's activities, and I want to work for my salary this week. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u26	Mr. President. Here in this hall are two members of the Independence Party. This article informs us that a legal committee cannot be handled because more part is not available. I respect your opinion. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son and usually he comes here and he's honest and honest in a talk chair, but it's not honest or honest to come here in a speech chair, especially under these circumstances when his own party doesn't show up, and talk here in some covert and fault. Hv. A senator speaks of the management of the environment and transport committees and the expected employment providers as well, threatening to publish some information about it. Is it not just the right thing to do? A senator does this instead of coming here and talking like the government doesn't show up on committees when there's a situation here that can't be closed, can't be negotiated, because there's no need to come here to meet? [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u27	A respectable president. You see, there are some factors, especially the respect of the council. It is no good form for the council when Congress cannot be completed, so it is important that because responsible administrative matters are present only to a minor extent, they feel obligated to respect the duties and duties that we have primarily as members of the council. It's unacceptable. I challenge the Council's administration to lower their feet and to demonstrate to the Commission how right and normal it is and to treat the European Parliament's legislature.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u28	A respectable president. I may be asked to be paranoid, but I think there's some plan, I just don't think the rest of us get to know about it. It is quite surprising that the class's position in terms of democratic elections is now in hand and is an enormously serious matter. I heard senators say in the tunnel a few weeks ago that it was okay to leave the council for a while because in 2009 it was so long, just right up until the election. A respectable president. It's a little serious. In 2009, we were dealing with national bankruptcy. The whole community was on fire. Is it the example to follow, that because the 2009 Parliament lasted so long, it's all right just to leave the council behind almost completely until the election day? I think it takes a lot of effort to intervene now and say, because there's going to be a lot of renewal at the next council, that it's not all right, it's not an example. It should be the way of an election that everyone sits at the same table. The current work programme was concluded negotiations. It is important to remember that, she concluded that the groups sat down and said: "This is the end of the council. Everybody knew about it. Now there is no such plan, which means that the classes are not at the same level. [[The president calls.]] There's reproach in a democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u29	A respectable president. This is where the government's stand is accused of filibuster. A filibuster is abusive about a talk that takes a long time. Sometimes they take a long time for irreprehensible reasons, but sometimes for perfunctory reasons. When it comes to fighting for granted to know how the more part takes care to continue this council, it is a critical reason why people come up in roughness to point out that fact and insist on improvement immediately. It is the opinion of all people, including a respectable president and that my knowledge of the greater part, the ones I have ever heard of, is that the Congress was having a different language and good at least until the end of the week of the work programme, at the end of September. That's everyone's opinion. So when the work programme is completed and here we begin to complain of continuing, it is called a filibuster. A respectable president. If it's a question of speech, the lesson we've learned here is that the topic of conversation from spring to the work program of the longest Congress of Iceland's history is a bad idea. That we should have been talking in the spring. That's the lesson, because if we don't, the longest council in Iceland will be used to keep the government out of the campaign. [[The president calls.]] Does a dignified president want to be the legacy of this council?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u30	A respectable president. The situation is that this Council, Council 145, has completed all the important issues discussed in April. Our housing has been completed, our top score has been completed, and here we should finish our vote by 3:00. ... andthenstop. It is the only case that remains, one matter of Congress, is to complete a vote by the end of the 3rd district. ... aboutthehead. A respectable president. It's not the end of Iceland, October 29th. It's not like that. All the issues here on the program and listed on the list of long since the present government are designed to produce a new council. That's it. A new democratic elected council that has real authority for that which is present, the divorced government certainly does not have. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. This one vote is to be concluded and sent home to the council so that everyone will be at the same table for the election this time. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u31	The President has received the following program proposals: We signed it, in accordance with 1 mgr. 77st. Conventional song, for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st Nature protection, etc., 87th matter, Whoosh. 87, 2nd. 2. Basic schools, etc., 104s cases, parss. 104, 2nd. 3. birth and parent'sor, etc., 261st. 288, 2nd. 4. Government and law-enforcement paper, etc., 237th case, parley. 257, 2nd. 5. National park in the middle of the country, sweet boy. It's a 10th story, sis. 10, second round. 6th An elderly agent's office, a sorcerer. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under these letters, write a letter. 9th. Smoke. So, Hjörvar, what? Tenth. That's the north side. "Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, who. Tenth. Smoke. So, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir and wík. 5th a.m. Smoke. S., Sóggis Svavarsdóttir. The proposal will be agreed at this meeting later. Furthermore, the president would like to announce that it is the President's intention to interrupt the Senate service until the end of the year. 15 After we finish our first session, the activities of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u32	V.E.G. President. The economist has a miscalculation of consumer prices for six months. This is because the Habitat was calculated to be underestimated. In the 12 month calculation of the Hague Room, prior to the failure, inflation was measured 0.9% using the index value of consumer prices. But if calculated from the standard index of consumer prices, as in the OECD countries, the inflation rate would have been -0.9%. This is because in the standard index of consumer prices, the mortgage is not included. It is thought of as an investment, not as consumption in the country. In new economic figures, in the last 12 months, in terms of the index price of consumption, in terms of 1.8%, and 0.4%, if calculated from the standard index of consumer prices. There is an enormous difference between the calculations and this effect. ... ofthebiddenbiddenfinancesofthelandland. As a result of these mistakes, it is recommended to review the criteria of the index. So it must be mentioned in my council proposal that has not been made to the council and that sounds like this, with the permission of a president: ▪ The General concluded to hide financial and economic minister to appoint an independent expert team who recognizes the benefits and weaknesses of altering the calculation of inflation and insurance so that on time, a consistent index of consumer prices (SVN) will be used instead of an indicator number (VNV) of consumer prices. In particular, during the analysis work it will be used to measure the level of inflation in major Iceland's business countries and to assess how the change would affect remuneration, credit rates, prices-separated loans and interest. We candidates want to establish this matter before the end of the council, and all we believe is that other groups agree with us. It won't take long to get this issue going. This is a very modest suggestion, but it can be of enormous importance to our country's home. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u33	V.E.G. President. The number of people coming up is higher and critical of the high interest policy that is being fired in Iceland. According to news received from the Secret Bank this morning, there is nothing to be heard about. There's the same courage as the vision, zero. I'd like to call attention to what one of the most important Icelandic businessmen, Björgólfur Jóhannsson, president of the Business Association, said about the UN interest policy at a recent meeting held at Hilton. By permission of the president, the director said: ▪ I don't think it makes sense that we're watching this high interest level. Let us look at a different situation in neighboring countries that we are fighting. I believe that in the past few months, in a very significant way, the bat has made a huge mistake. He later said in his talk: I'm not a pessimist for my company, but I find a scholarship to the crown's gang and interest policy crazy. Period.How many points You notice when the men of this block come up and speak up in this way. It is not surprising, then, that the person mentioned here has had a special discussion on growth rates in Iceland at the highest level. Secretary of finance, including It would be considered as they are calculated in Iceland, how the index is calculated here on land, which is different from anywhere else. I think it is very important that such discussions are now taking place in the process of election because, anyway, it is our candidates' policy to clean up the financial system. I think it is necessary that this discussion be on the agenda before the assembly ends, is inserted into that fight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u34	V.E.G. President. I'm going to talk about stability. Economics and infrastructure are high in the discussion, and what has marked the discussion is the willingness to increase government spending and place more money, e.g. in health and health and other internal structures. I'm not going to argue that there is a need for money in many places, but I would like to say here that economic stability has to be the most important thing, merit status, balance, balance, political stability for the job and for the home, that we will stay and in further efforts to strengthen the infrastructure. But why is stability so important? In very simple terms, we, our homes, and our jobs are rather ready to move us to action in such circumstances, to new life, and to innovation. We'll be safer in a stable environment. In unstable surroundings, we think of ourselves, wait and look for cover. In the middle of the ocean, we either climb the waves or make a bed. During natural disasters, storms, and hurricanes, we find refuge, and we wait. When everything is moving around, we stop and wait for that movement. The same is true of the economy. Consider the significant tax changes during the last term. Businesses maintain their hands in human resources, family pack up expenses, not for upbuilding savings, but for emergency saving. This is where most groups of large - scale expenses, system surgery, system changes in basic working roads. The fact is, together with stability, the job life has prospered, the power to buy has increased, and the provision of the households as well as the economic situation of the nation has improved during this terms and rarely been better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u35	A respectable president. Yesterday, the United States introduced suggestions on how to conduct first apartment purchases under the heading Foreplay of a real estate market. We would like to give first ones the advantage by allowing them to get access to making interest improvements in their first five years of premium in order to help cut expenses. Today is the situation, and it is the most serious problem in real estate market today, that many people have not been given the opportunity to access the real estate market but to pay rent which, in many cases, is even double what they would pay in the payment of a small apartment. We want to give people the opportunity to get out of that situation. It's the biggest project in the real estate market today. At the same time, we want to build a lease. But we cannot say to all the people now waiting for release in a hopeless tenet that they will have to wait for years to be built. We need immediate solutions. The only criticism I've heard about this play is that it will lead to an increase in real estate prices. Sadly, any means of borrowing and increasing the number of people who can buy affect real estate prices for increase. It's inevitable. But this action is a prosthesis, which is progressive, and thus most useful to the least earner, on the contrary to the way of the government, the first real estate that is not fully used except those with the 1,400 you have. K. per month. Then it is being given the Kingdom power to offer people even higher ones to live in an apartment they can afford to buy. The main way we take advantage of people in poor, medium - income groups, and the better they can earn less money, free people from unfeasing traps, untrusted tenants, and point the way forward to successful people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u36	A respectable president. While much is unclear about the end of the council, it is clear that the end of the council is near. Therefore, I would like to use this opportunity, for now there will be fewer opportunities available to discuss the activities of the council for the next few days, to say good - bye to the General. I have experienced at this workplace two peculiar terms in the history of the council. The postmortem period, which was the most difficult and most conflicting period in history and then the strange and impaired terms that are now ending. During the previous period, conflict and wolfism brought great damage to the respect of the Generals. They have improved in this ideal period and can no doubt be attributed to much of the material opposition of government. However, the Council still has a long way to restore confidence among voters in the atmosphere of political events and confusion that now exists in our society and is displayed repeatedly in surveys. In this field, many people are outstanding and capable men and women, but in many ways, the Allied council is committed to traditions that in some respects are the stones, but can also defend this institution and its delicate administration in the great conflict of the political debate. On the other hand, I have often felt that there is too much transparency and even behindmath in the work of the Generals, and I also feel that the members of Congress themselves have to do better with both the council as a legal and democratic organization as well as themselves. Do not be afraid to protect your terms, conditions, and rights, to defend the council, and to promote its respect through its conduct and talk. A respectable president. I am walking out of here rich with experience and memories that I will praise for the future. I'm grateful that I worked here. I am grateful for the confidence I was shown when I was first elected into this house in 2009. I'm grateful for the people here who have come in my way, the staff of the Generals, the political associates, and my campaigns, many of whom have taught me things, each in their own way. I would like to be blessed and thanked by the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u37	President wants to thank you. A senator's word and reputation for us senators and Generals. President wants to thank you. A senator for her valuable contribution in the last few years' activities of the General Assembly. It would probably be a shame to say that we were. A senator has always agreed, and at times he was quite far from it. We have succeeded, and this is normal in politics. Political issues reflect differing opinions and only natural aspects of people's lives when members of different viewpoints, differing views, different ideologies. I've worked hard too. A senator in our district, the Northwestern district. There we have made a fortune to turn pies into much more cases than the others, and sometimes we have good results, sometimes to the point. The President would like to thank for the good cooperation in the past, thank you for the time we have spent together in politics as well as in conflicts and communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u38	Mr. President. I'd like to say thank you for being with the President for what? 5th a.m. Witchest. "Ólína Kjerúlf the Þorvarðardóttir's daughter, and wish her all good in new ways. I'm here to make a subject of very informative numbers from the Habitat on the property status of the households now published by the Habitat and processed by tax records. The domestic status of the homes or the acquired population has continued to improve and continued to improve over the past year, just as it has been doing all year since 2010. But, in my opinion, the most farfetched thing about these figures is the division of these assets. It turns out that 43% of all the assets last year fell into the hands of 10% of the richest people. Ten percent of the richest people, top-tenth-tenth-tenth, on pure property of 1,880 billion dollars, property over over debt at 1,880 billion dollars. of nearly 3,000 billion domestic property. So this group has 64% of all clean households in the country. If we take the next tenth in, the highest fifth, it has 87% of everything. Let's just look at the other end. If we take the less than half of the population, how much is it 50%, half the crew, 100,000 people? No, they owe 211 billion over property. It's such a huge discrepancy with these assets. But these are the largest groups, the wealthiest people that this government has chosen to place in a special course and priority by dropping a wealth tax, and by shoveling tens of billions of taxes on reducing the debt of these people to whom they belonged, increasing their wealth. That's a fact. This has contributed to this brutal misunderstanding of wealth that Iceland and I are here seeing on the face like many other Western nations. [[The president calls.]] Don't you need to talk about it and deal with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u39	A respectable president. I'd like to make up the subject of a story I saw yesterday on the mols and VOLV about the alleged zoo, where a person is supposed to have been abused by a lamb. I don't know how reliable the news is, but I'm sure something happened there. The Congress approved better animal protection legislation, I think it was 2013, so I think the legislation should be quite good. Of course, we were disappointed that we did not achieve a complete victory when we had our livestock deal. I'm worried about animal control and the fact that we can't control that problem. In this case, witnesses have to come forward, and the police need to investigate. A person is suspected of his actions, and no one really knows who he is, and he's being exonerated online; and I don't know what he's returning. But the matter needs to be investigated, the person must be contacted, and help is needed. People who abuse animals - this is not like walking into a tower and stealing a bottle of soda or something. There's a lot going on over there. The message we sent, the legislature, the way we punish, or help those who do these things must also be very clear about how we do it. When I read news like this, my stomach hurts, and unfortunately, they are all too common. Sometimes we talk as if it were a problem that actually doesn't exist, and perhaps it has even been so that we don't interfere with it, even if some horses are abused, etc. It's not like that. This is a very serious problem. I don't like the fact that the news of this matter is wrong. Even a abused lamb had been suspected. That was news to me. [[The president calls.]] Then it turned out that it wasn't right. It is important that news of these matters be made clear. But I'm just hoping that the police and local animal doctors are investigating this case and trying to get to the bottom of this because it's very serious. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u40	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir For beautiful words toward the council and its future, the Ólína Þorvarðardóttir Kjerúlf for the council. I'd like to state that she will be missed by this scene, by a fighter to the settlements, and by radical reforms. I'm going to miss her if I get elected back to the council, which I hope is right. I'd like to mention that on Monday, a challenge to the Polish council was sent on the legal ban on abortion, and the Polish government was encouraged to protect women's self - determination rights and to express concern over the legal requirements for banning abortion. I'd like to state here that I wholeheartedly support this resolution by members of the council. Sadly, I wasn't at the council, so I missed it, and I was late for this challenge. Of course, we need to protect the rights of women who have been taken anywhere. It's a big setback if the Polish council is going to ban abortion. It is a human right to respect the woman's self - determination rights for her own body. There are many prejudices and setbacks that we have to pay a warning against and support in other nations, in our friends nations, and anywhere in the world, in conflict when such arbitrary decisions are made in other parts of the world. The National Assembly of the Icelanders is to be with Polish women in their human rights battle in these matters, so I wholeheartedly support this challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u41	A respectable president. I also want to say thank you for what you're doing. Ólína An Kjerúlf daughter of the Þorvarðardóttir, who held here a very good speech. I will, indeed, if I stay here, I miss our cooperation with her even though we don't always agree, I and I don't. Senator. Only because of the last what? A senator mentioned them, and I agree that they are not to be carried out in that way. A senator described. However, if we are going to criticize the violation of human rights in Europe every time they're done, there's still enough to be taken, unfortunately. I also wanted to be able to say that here, a respectable president. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon on the wealth tax. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that the people who paid wealth taxes were largely in debt, and this is here in Congress documents, the pay-poor older citizens who had debts. Members who had debts were taken out, and they had to pay that tax. The stakeholders were released, which had national security property such as pension rights, which were relatively few individuals, primarily in the political and government class. The people who paid this tax, even had to sell their possessions, were promised to be temporary. He was a temporary ruler, and he did not succeed. Rather, he fulfilled the promise made by the last government to these people. A respectable president. I wanted to draw attention to the success of increasing our business freedom here in Iceland during this term. We can do so because we personally handle our own matters. We've taken our product back, tolls off, and that's something we're supposed to keep doing. I want to draw attention to this, because there are not many people who are aware that if we walk in the European Union, the prices from countries outside the EU increase, the number of customs and the costs would have to be substantially increased. [[The president calls.]] I think it's important that we keep this in mind when we discuss these matters in the near, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u42	A respectable president. In this program, we will talk about violations of human rights that take place in the vast world. Now in the news - and perhaps as we read the news, we do not know all the facts - that in these words, human rights are being violated on a little five - year - old boy who has been decided to send a Norwegian Child Welfare Commission because his mother, a young woman, had a drinking problem while living in Norway. She started treatment, and when it became clear that the child should be taken from her, she decided to come to Iceland. She has continued her treatment, she is an active alcoholic, but she has been sober for a long time. She has a family here, but because she was deprived of custody over her boy in Norway - the father lives in Denmark and has no interference with the boy - this five - year - old boy should be taken and brought to Norway and placed in a foster home while his family in Iceland and his mother is taking over her business and working on things that turn her. This means that this five - year - old boy will spend fourteen years in a foster home in Norway, and his mother will be able to see him twice a year under supervision. We talk about violations of human rights in Polish women, and we talk about violations of human rights on the people of Syria. A respectable president. For me as a senator, for me as a mother and grandmother this is a violation of human rights that I cannot accept. I challenge the highest. The Minister of State and Child Welfare are already taking care of the situation and preventing this little five - year - old boy from being torn from his mother and family in Iceland and into Norway. [[Take it up: right.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u43	A respectable president. I take my heart to the words that came down here in Norway. I know more cases and cases read about it on a special Facebook page how to handle Icelanders and Icelandic children in Norway. I'm going to discuss the long promises list of the left groups for elections, which are very beautiful, expensive elections, where everyone is to receive all free, health care, and an endless amount of expenses. This morning I spoke to the Frägeir son of Friðgeir Jóhannesson, who has come to the city of Reykjavík because of his disability after a tragic accident that occurred when he was buried four years ago. For two years he has taken a case on the city to get his right to help the city, but no one has answered. Four years, four counts, and no one has talked to this man. This is often the case when the promises are high and intense, and I'll have my sufficiency. When you read about these facts and hear how people are treated, the pale campaign promise fades. I think we should go to elections and think about the stability and power of money that we need to continue to secure in this society and not promise people what we cannot keep. Pain is talking. In this case, Reykjavíkurburg has treated this man shamefully. There was news on this subject yesterday on television. I think we should learn not to promise gold and green forests when things aren't better than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u44	Madam President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, of course, the Ministry of the Interior should react on this matter. It's crystal clear to me that this little boy is supposed to be here at home and not be in foster care just because Norwegian legislation allows it to. We can do well, and we should. I really hope and accept the challenge that the Minister of Internal Affairs does. I want to thank you. Ólína For the fun cooperation that we've had during this ultimatum, it's an uninterrupted Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir. We've been sitting in a full-scale educational committee together since she came here for the council. She is a speaker, and it's nice to talk about life and life with her. I wish her all the best in what she does. I just wanted to make a subject of what we senators are facing. We can't go and talk to our voters about what the situation really is because we're stuck here. As I've told the government many times about the economic benefits and the like, but it's important to remember that underneath it's the stability process, that's not necessarily that the government business is really so good. Hv. paritaprevir The Gullful Þórðarson mentioned the wealth tax earlier and constantly chews that he was placed on older citizens. There are many things to say that it is one of those things that can be fixed, i.e. how he was set up, as well as other tax returns if it is to be divided. The richest percent should contribute more. Money, infrastructure, transportation, school, flight, mental health issues are involved. Human psychiatry has not been successful, as the health minister intended. Young people's mental - health issues are particularly large, and how important it is to take steps to prepare for the future! We need to think about this now as we begin to vote: Whom do we trust in these actions?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u45	A respectable president. There are several issues, and though one specifically, that I have noticed tending to be deformed in the discussion. People are inclined to approach the issue based on conflicting grounds and to play out facts that are wrong. One group of such cases is foreign languages in a wide sense. Today's morning newspaper reports that there may be a need for strong rules against the trustees who come here for a purpose. There is one of the many problems that can arise in the group of languages, i.e. when we're under intense stress. The exception then is that there will be a calm and simple fact - based debate, and the exception is that there will not be an abundance of hatred and wolves, which will then be based on judgment, prejudice and ignorance; ignorance of the law, ignorance of how things work today, how they are planned in the future, and also on more or less all that is involved in the media. In view of the circumstances in which we live in a world of refugees and the fact that this group has been prominent in recent times, I want to emphasize that it will be taken out of the way, not to go to war - anyone can take it to heart and out of any viewpoint. This group of paintings is fragile, we're talking about real people, really. It is vital that we come to the light of facts and knowledge of the language class. A knowledge of the language group does not result from simply reading the media. To understand it properly, you have to get into the lawsuit. I notice that there are repeated decisions based on ignorance that cannot be improved by reading the magazines and by having opinions in town. [[The president calls.]] You can't do that. The sect needs to be studied deeply, and people who have opinions about it need to be discussed with them. In some way, all of us must want well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u46	A respectable president. First, I want to say the word with the question. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's discussion of the issues of refugees and immigrants is very important. To say, I'd like to discuss one of the matters that I think very important that we settle here at this council. It's the bill on the Icelandic loan Fund. The bill for the council is now following the coverage of the General Information and Education Committee as well as the revised process from there. I believe that the system modification of the bill is very important for Icelandic students and for the whole education system. This bill is an incentive for learning ahead of a full course. It is accompanied by additional motivations to pursue an occupational education, a very important part of the bill. For a greater proportion of students, this will mean less and more predictable payoffs and will produce a more transparent and clearer picture of who enjoy strength. The changes made by the General and Education Committee include a very important and important change, i.e. that after the loss of the first year, students can get strength and loans, which have been the struggle between 1992 and 1992, can make a big difference for many.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u47	A respectable president. Yesterday, I was tempted to convince the U.S. Congress that people should vote for a bright future in the coming election. I was disappointed. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, the daughter of Richard, followed me during that talk period and declared that she did not intend to choose the future of Birta. So I'm trying again. I find it so obvious, at the end of this election period, that it is Polish Bears the future, the politics of Bright the future, that is relevant to this nation. We have seen that long - term thoughts have been put aside in this ideal period. It's a bright future for long-term thinking in politics. When it comes to human rights, environmental matters, such as social diversity, there has been a bright future. We've been talking about building up the infrastructure in society, it's been totally fired on by this ideal period, targeted. Plans are simply set aside, a transport plan that takes two years back. Besides, I'd like to mention something else, which is why you're snooty. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttur Lindik on the phone, talking about the LIN case. Likely there are few cases in which it clarifies just as clearly how important it is to realize that it matters who governs. A bright future would never have provided such a bill. This bill is employed in a complete lack of consultation. The classes here at the council, I think everyone, wants a scholarship, they want a scholarship. But the government comes, completely without consultation, with a bill so that all students get scholarship and they get the worst out of these things that really need help. Those who need assistance, single parents, long - term high school students, people in a socially difficult position, and the costs are high for everyone else. It's such an amazing lack of understanding of the concept that you don't have a word. [[The president calls.]] And it is according to a case that the government groups have brought in these bills that help those who do not need help but who take a bite at those who really need help. [[The president calls.]] Political is important, and I'd like to say, "No one needs to know how you choose in the ballroom." We're at the top of a magazine, X-A.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u48	A respectable president. As we discussed earlier this day, the president of the Generalist Conference delayed yesterday because there was no basis for continuing the meeting or discussing it. As a result, he ended a meeting around the time. 18 yesterday, because at that time, there was no basis for continuing the meeting. The discussion was then not started this morning, because this morning there was still no basis for continuing a discussion or a meeting while there were no programs on which to complete the work here. So I must ask now if anything has changed since noon this morning, whether there is anything here for the continuation of the work, schedule, agreement or anything that allows us to continue our meeting now rather than this morning or yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u49	The President can well inform, as anyone else's motive. The members of the council are aware that the circumstances as a matter of course have not changed much. A senator mentions. However, it is the president's assessment, as it was last night's evaluation, that, despite the natural thing, it would be to present a meeting today with the schedule set before us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u50	A respectable president. I have to say, I disagree with this president's locality because now we're in good shape into an entirely disorganized and unpredictable week after two plans are completed and there is no such thing as this. All I have to do is tell the President that the only way to put pressure on the heads of the board is to try to figure out what it's all about here is to postpone any conferences. Passing meetings is showy because it is clearly not in the Senate Hall where the conversations need to be conducted. I'm just saying, Mr President, if we don't get the hang of the situation today, we're supposed to finish this case, finish 3rd. and vote on it, we're gonna pull off the 145th and we're going into a campaign. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u51	A respectable president. I agree with what was presented here, and I sort of assumed that the president would set up a meeting and then end a meeting, but since it hasn't been done, something is likely to happen. Then there is some news, and we expect to be invited to a council meeting soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u52	President. There has not been any contact with any presidents or members of the House today or yesterday, despite a very clear message from the authorities of the U.S. government that a plan would have to be established no later than last night. Nothing has been heard in the government officials, and it is quite clear that this council is gone. The government does not cause this, and it is conclusive that a case cannot be completed even when one cannot be humanized, for example. The budget of the rest. This is nothing but showyness, and I suggest that we finish our case and then attend a council and enter the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u53	A respectable president. Here again, we are seen in the cruel masquerade that has begun during the final days of this council and is encouraged to the highest degree. The president of the Council to end a council despite a very urgent matter that the greater part would like to be completed before the election is completed. [[Up front.]] It is only natural in itself that the smaller part of the council does not want to address important issues, such as the loan account and the Backka's case. There is much evidence of opposition to that matter. Hv. Pirat's members threatened some day ago that if the LAIN case was scheduled, they would take the council hostage. Of course, we are witnessing the threat. [[Up front.]] [[Foreground on hostage.]] This is no more than a certain hostage situation at the council. Here's a part of the program. Let us take a stand on it and see if it is not a democratic factor for the yet existing program. And then I encourage a respectable president to set up a program as soon as possible, like the Back case, where we're going to be damaged every day, and a case like the Icelandic loan fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u54	A respectable president. I'm kind of cheap. This was a lunch delay, and we were supposed to get back together at three o'clock because the case was supposed to be clear in the meantime. There has been no conversation between government and government opposition or presidents and presidents or members of Congress. So I ask, what exactly are we doing here? What is the plan when it is clear that there is no prior priority for the matter of Congress that is requested to come through, and when it is known that the members of the administration have become a campaign, while we are at the council's position? While it's that way, we're just going to have the campaign here. I will deal with the Battle of the Bright Future, as it will be for the senators to discuss their fighting issues in the regions of these days. [[The president calls.]] Then we'll just use this place to talk for ourselves. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u55	A respectable president. You wonder when the situation is the way it is, that there is no agreement among the heads of the administrations, that there may be no reason to negotiate for anything. Maybe you should encourage the highest. In order to ensure that the matters scheduled for the council are properly handled, that nothing is done here in any hurry, and that humans will just take the time they need to review the issues before the council. There are enough people here inside those doors that are not in a campaign, such as. Me. I can stay here and do my job until the election's over. It's both sweet and related to me. There's no need for me to make negotiations. There is no need for me to try to speed things up on the program. Why would that be? Here comes a new bigger portion after the next month's match. [[The president calls.]] He goes to work, and he must just continue with the fundamental issues, bringing new cases for a new council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If there's anything, if there's any decision here, a respectable president, it's just to address the issues ahead and to ignore them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u56	A respectable president. I'm going to participate in the cruel barrier of language here. I'd like to direct them to what they say. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son that he sends the message out to his party members to meet them at least at a hearing. If there aren't even many members here to support the job, I don't understand what we're doing here. It was like this morning that we couldn't hold a meeting on a fundraiser. The smaller part had arrived, but the majority of the parts were missing, including some of them. ... froma pack. Senator. I'd like to direct that question to the highest level. The president whether it really is, so that he could not get any new information from yesterday on how the administrative parties intend to complete this council. Is it really that way, chief? President? I want answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u57	It is clear that these issues have not been clarified and will be explained only in conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u58	A respectable president. I'd like to first say that here are non-supervising senators who don't intend to campaign, but I intend to vote for my party. I would like to do some work to help my crew improve their Senate work, hopefully during the next term. I can't get into it until this council is over. It has a very real effect on some members, including those who are not offering themselves to the council, that the council should be so delayed. Besides, it's just not okay to go to the top. Ministers are in a campaign campaign while others are working here. That's not fair. It's not democratic. It's not in any way okay. I don't see why it's so hard to get together and try to discuss it seriously. I really don't understand. I don't know exactly what the benefits are but the people who hold the council hostage, as mentioned, and from a campaign. It's the only possible interests I can see that this nonsense serves, because it's nonsense. It doesn't have to be this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u59	President. There's a lot of conversations. It would matter if the government and government officials took time or had already prepared. When you meet with the best and the highest. Gentlemen, they've never prepared anything for them. There is no plan on what to do in order to reach the end of the council. It was like that yesterday, too. I think it's so, as one hears of in the community, that the reason we haven't heard from government leaders yet is that they don't talk. At least they had not yet prepared for the meeting yesterday, and this must be one reason why the officers have not yet been invited to a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u60	V.E.G. President. I am disappointed to learn that no conversation has taken place right now. To be honest, I had allowed myself to put my hope that now something would begin to happen. It's not working out. The members of the board speak as if there is a plan here to work on it. There is no work plan, and we need to take into account how we get in here. So all I can do is redirect to the highest. President wishes to postpone meetings until these matters are resolved. After that, how much. The president's reaction last night, in my opinion, by giving up a meeting, I hoped something would happen, but apparently it wasn't enough, so I have to continue to get the top of it. A president for good works and for the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u61	Mr. President. I agree with the last speaker. I think it's very important that we don't hold a conference while we don't know how to land things and finish this council. The government situation has always been ready to have a conversation with a member of the board, whether it is the chairman of a body of Congress or the chairman of the board of directors. As soon as the call comes and the meeting is arranged, we are here. But no one is talking to us right now, and we're right next to the highest level. President that the matter will not be solved without conversation. Well, maybe the directors of the board have to start talking first, but I wish that we senators aren't paid to be held here in nonsense, I'll let me say, while they don't talk in front of the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u62	V.E.G. President. I noticed that the President for this reason, the meeting talk we are in, that matters will not be clear except in the conversation between the two of us. President is right. It's just that people don't offer conversation, the government groups don't offer a conversation, and they haven't. Then you ask, Is it really so that government officials do not want to establish these matters? Is that all to run into the sand? Then what responsibility this should have to be clear about. We in a bright future have continued to find, for example. some bottom line on the pension rights. This is of great importance, but as long as people do not talk, nothing happens. [[The president calls.]] This is not the responsibility of those here who stand or sit and wait and are ready to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u63	A respectable president. I often notice that such a meeting rush is so intense that there is little to answer. It is a fact that seems undisputed by a respectable president or anyone else that there will be nothing going on until the members of the House have talked about the continuation of the council. This is a fact. The second fact is, the highest. Ministers have gone to campaign in the country. That's a fact. In view of these two facts, it is easy to see that what needs to be done today is that the leaders of the classes speak together to figure out how the council can complete its work and that everyone has a campaign. It's a fact, and it's undisputed as far as I can see it. Certainly here comes one and a member of the board of directors and makes his own shit as usual. It's just to have it, nothing to do, but what I can't figure out is the attitude of a respectable president. Why does he let this happen? Why are meetings here and the government held in the belief that we can car everything in the power alone rather than simply talk to each other?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u64	President. I'd like to ask the president two questions, in view of the situation. Would the president, for one, be so kind as to inform us who he thinks is normal for the next step in the situation that we have, a position that is obviously stuck because people don't talk to each other? I'm asking, "Who thinks President is a normal next step?" We're all aware, almost regardless of what their outcome will be, that we need time to close the council, we need time to complete what needs to be completed. So I ask the President, "How long does the President think he's a defence attorney?" How close to elections does the President consider defencer to keep the council still going, so to speak. Senators can't get into a campaign?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u65	Regarding the first question, the president would like to say that the next step in the president's assessment is that the representatives of the classes discuss the existing situation and try to work together on a frame that can be worked out. This is the key to answering the second question. If you can put your arms around it, the president believes that it will not take long to complete the council. He reminds us that most of the cases listed have been going on for quite a long time, less than just a matter. Senators know. The president has no reason to comment on the date of completion of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u66	Mr. President. There's been a really bad situation here. We are like a nutty machine discussing the same things over and over, and not the entertainment for anyone. But how sad it is that our Assembly is in this situation! It has been known in the spring that it should be chosen in the fall and that people are always starting out, talking, going over, looking at things from these and the other sides. After the election of the head of the forward party, one man thought that the pressure was released. But the same dam seems to be going on with this government. I'm not saying you have to get a piece of shit as usual to set up dams, but you have to start doing something about these things to get this dam out of this government. She has to start getting her shit together and packing, because her time has gone by. The Sandglass is empty. It's empty, it's not empty, it's empty. We've got to get this over with because we're about to start an election. We also want to get out and talk to people in our positions of government. [[The president calls.]] It is not just a matter of personal government being able to stay out here and south every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u67	A respectable president. All of this has some precedent. Despite good promises and declarations that the smaller part is willing to cooperate here and conversation, we know that there is a great opposition among them with a matter of government, democratic larger things here at the council, emphasises on coming through. I'd like to mention the changes in the Icelandic loan fund, which is absolutely fundamental to our opinion of getting paid. We know that this is a lot of opposition in my share here. I think it would be normal for a democracies to become more involved just to determine which case would be finished and we would take care of it according to standard procedures. It's not unprecedented that we're here for the election. It is no longer past 2009, in the spring of 2009, that we were here at the council until a week of elections and there was, of the present, more part, offering of the money, like a change in the constitution of the last record and a change in election law. There's a little thing in their mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u68	A respectable president. I'd like to justify that once the government has announced to the election, she has lost the authority she has to bring up a new case and finish that case, as she has now been doing. There is a reason why Congress is usually broken about month before election. This is so that people can go campaigning. This is not to say that there are precedents for trucking through. [[For example, consider: 2009.]] 2009. Then there was a crash. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, there was a collapse. This is a moral collapse called the Panama Documents and that's why we're choosing now. It's not 'cause there's been a collapse of banks, so there's a moral collapse in the administrative sector. That's why we're going to the election, and an independent party is about to accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u69	A respectable president. Let's say it. The government situation has held to its end the contract made on springtime on payment. This has been the end of currency companies, the conferences related to housing, as well as the exchange agreements and customs. If so, you cannot bring up a new set of issues, such as these. Jón Gunnarsson is trying here, saying, "And so is this, and so is this too. " Thus, it was not written in spring when the chairman of the Independence Party declared that this assembly would be reduced to the sensitivity of one council, but a new assembly was to begin on Tuesday in September. We have entered October, and there is nothing to call on to resolve one of the issues other than the currency capitals that can't be done in November after the end of the Senate election. The administrative part here, the window with confidence, has no democratic requirement to obtain any case for the next few days before election. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If he gets more of it, he can finish it here in November and he'll just have to wait until then.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u70	A respectable president. The issues mentioned in our time, when some important matters would have to be completed before the election, have been resolved here at the council. It's over. Now we're talking about things that are late, a lot of bad jobs. I mention the loan bill, late in history, a failed bill, which would have been timed, could have been able to achieve cross-politic harmony, had men given themselves the time, and had agreed on a consultation that would be needed to resolve the matter properly. The project is emptied, a respectable president. There's nothing to wait for. When the majority cannot even be present at the council and do not respect the council with their presence there's nothing to wait for, it's just going to end this council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u71	V.E.G. President. It seems necessary to always surface here from time to time, holding that when it comes to completing matters of the committee, the members of the government have been particularly forgiving and expressive. We've been right up until now, we can say that the General Work Programme ran out. This will change people's attitude. Plus, it's like a whisk. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is surprised to learn that different categories have different political views. Better now. That is why complex and large issues need a good time on committees. The time has simply passed before this work can be worked out, so there is nothing left to wait for and decide what matters are necessary and can be completed and then cut off. [[The president calls.]] And that's where I have to wait back to the highest. President to take over the board.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u72	A respectable president. Thus, the public discussion was held by the highest authority. Minister of Gunnar Sveinsson Svenson. paritaprevir Would Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, ever say that a special day should never be set aside because of being held in such a position of government? Now, the day has come when they were not quite right, these smaller bagmen of the advance party, at least In this respect, because here the government has been waiting for a conversation and waiting for men to sit down and review the issues that will be over and how to do so. When you come to a conclusion with the issues that are made at the council at such an end, you are usually making the right to speak in matters. Then the government says, "We're ready for these matters to go through, and we don't discuss them much, they'll be done on committees and so on the streets, but they can't be given right after when there's no conversation. Then there's nothing to negotiate if you're simply going to finish your full list. [[The president calls.]] I will bring back the members of the United States to that, because they will be talking about the democratic terms more than part, after just over three weeks, a new democratic rate will be elected to a greater extent in the country. He can just like the rest of the item here, finish the rest of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u73	A respectable president. I come up here because I find myself special when members of Congress discuss that the Council is out. I was elected to a council in April 2013 and my commission not published by a senator until the day of election, October 29th. To speak as if our commission, which is in the greater part, by the Independence Party or by the forwardings, to the council and to the government, who are represented by these two councils, is absurd. It's amazing that a senator should speak in this way because there has not been any authority here, and there have not been any new parties received a majority invitation. That may be the way it is in the election on October 29, but it's not like that. The members of Parliament, representing the forward party and the Independence Party, have full authority to October 29th. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u74	Mr. President. There's nothing left but to end a council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] There are no important issues to be resolved here. All such matters have been cleared up. V.E.G. The prime minister listed the issues when he asked for cooperation to complete a council. The government has cooperated with him and with the members of the management team to complete these matters. There are no issues left but a few matters that the Ministers would like to use to build themselves a headstone, ministers who are sure to live in the belief that they will not return to the Ministers' houses. That's the only reason we're here. V.E.G. The presidents and Ministers of the Constitution do not even show the respect of coming here to discuss the matter. V.E.G. The president will be interested in discussing the transport plan afterwards. I'll let me ask you, "Where's the top?" Minister of the state to which we should be able to comment on it? Where is she? She's out on the beach, isn't she? [[The president calls.]] Then what are we supposed to be here for?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u75	Mr. President. Of course, this should not be a meeting. When you don't know what the future will be, it's unannounced, and everyone knows it. This government may not have lost its commission, i.e. The members of the council, until October 28th, are well - founded. She's been doing it since spring, then completely ransacked with three Ministers inside the Panamas table. We can't overlook the fact that that that's why we're going to the election. It is all right for people to remember when they feel that they have something to do with a lot of things that can well wait. If people have so much doubt that they can get back to the Ministry class and to the executives, they just say that far more than I can say here, they don't even trust in themselves that they trusted in them. A respectable president. This is where we're supposed to stop, go out to the election, talk to the voters, talk to the people, and see who they trust to do the job.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u76	The president wants to disrupt the good spirit that has been lost here at the council and knows that it will be a good thing for us to discuss the following transport program, probably. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Up front.]] As was announced at a recent conference, president has received the following program proposals, which are as follows: We signed it, in accordance with 1 mgr. 77st. Conventional song, for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st Nature protection, etc., 87th matter, Whoosh. 87, 2nd. 2. Basic schools, etc., 104s cases, parss. 104, 2nd. 3. birth and parent'sor, etc., 261st. 288, 2nd. 4. Government and law-enforcement paper, etc., 237th case, parley. 257, 2nd. 5. National park in the middle of the country, sweet boy. It's a 10th story, sis. 10, second round. 6th An elderly agent's office, a sorcerer. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under these letters, write a letter. 9th. Smoke. So, Hjörvar, what? Tenth. That's the north side. "Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, who. Tenth. Smoke. So, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, and why. 5th a.m. Smoke. S., Sóggis Svavarsdóttir. A vote for the proposal is now given, but before it happens, the president wants to draw attention to the fact that there is a formality on this proposal, so it is not being handled, in view of the fact that the six cases that are presented there are all still in committees, have not been paid for. Nevertheless, the president naturally believes that the matter is under test, so it is reasonable to conclude that the matter of these matters is elected despite the failings of the proposal. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u77	A respectable president. Here we present some very good senators because the project is causing problems with how it is going to complete this council. As long as we're having trouble, it's right for us here at the council to focus on the Senate. All these matters have been settled, mentioned, and many of them are ready. So there is no point in throwing a meeting at committees and taking things out, so it has been done if it is willing. [[Up front.]] We can totally agree to this, and then we'll go into the committees. If a committee's opinion is needed, much of it may be called for a matter to be considered, even if it is not for the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u78	A respectable president. I'd like to begin by celebrating the arrival of these fine migratory birds into the hall that have not been seen here for the past few days, the members of the Continental Congress, who have been busy with their campaign campaigns. Especially I'd like to welcome the highest. Secretary of finance, head of the traffic, who fought east of the country on Monday when he was asked for his presence here in... [[The president calls.]] [[The president asks why. A senator, who has a bit of the pressure to call people names, to give up their routine.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] A respectable president. I was simply describing the man as a drifter and he's been wandering. That's not a nickname. We have arrived at the serious point where we have been meeting for hours on a financial committee on the matter of seriousness, the pension business of public employees, for hours. There we have invited guests that the only members who have been present on behalf of the administrative committee are two members of the administrative committee who are quitting. [[The president calls.]] We're putting on some ridiculous showcases, here we're walking on the basic rules of democracy, and that's not an acceptable, respectable president. I urge senators to vote with this proposal and try to stop the administrative part on this ridiculous journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u79	A respectable president. I hope I don't get a hamster. A president in my head, though I like him to King Salómon, felt the supreme decision. The president is generous and positive. Nevertheless, I would like to allow myself to have some disagreement with his interpretation. I believe that any time they want to bring a case from a committee, the council can. The subject was considered in particular about six matters. As we have seen, they are all in agreement with members of the committee. I'd like to take this opportunity, as soon as I give my highest compliments. To ask him if he does not feel that if the proposal was accepted, it would correspond to the Council's call for these six matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u80	In itself, the president has not thought this through. Senator. It is simply that way, and these issues are hardly in question. They will have to get their money back to the Committee, and this is the committee that will likely decide on this. In appeal to this, the president only called attention to this formality. [[Up front.]] Still, it became the conclusion that it would most naturally be that the council itself would determine whether it would change the program that the president so handled and applied, not once but twice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u81	A respectable president. It was a good decision for the president to submit this to members of Congress. It's nice to have the bridge lifted when they walk into the hall. They've been half-knits in the tunnels, the ones who've been here. Now that they're back, it's nice to remind you of the words of the president; this council will not be finished unless people start talking about how to finish it. Here is a suggestion to continue some normal work. In the meantime, the ball is held by the chairs. And as long as they figure out what they want to do, the rest of us are willing to continue to do good things.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u82	President. Clearly, something must be done to encourage members of the management body to come to the Hall of Congress. It has been repeated that because there were not enough members of a council or a council hall, the matter could not be settled. It is a pleasure to see so many people here, and I hope that when we begin to discuss a transportation program, they will remain in the Senate Hall. That's all I'm expecting. It would be very useful if it were the highest. At the same time, the minister of the state would come and participate in those discussions, even speaking against the high - ranking members of the council. A minister disagrees. It is clear that the body of Congress can bring about the matter mentioned. It's so simple. That's how the Senate works.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u83	A respectable president. I thank the President for the decision. It is based on the letter's correct view that the proposal may immediately be taken into account. However, there is reason to remember that when this change was made during the election period 1995-1999, I suppose that the less part of the council was entrusted with proselytism in two committees was on the same occasion made a change in Congress law that made sure that the Senate itself could call a case out of those committees at any time. If the heads of the section did not want more part of it, the hall would always have the authority to discuss the matter and would have the opportunity to turn the committees into the room as they so desired. I encourage senators to agree with the proposed program. If she could not succeed, as I understood from the President's words all odds indicate, I encourage him again to postpone a meeting until the State Department has some plan on what he wants to do in this hall over his head. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u84	A respectable president. The reason for this program is the absence of the more important element here, the last popular and disrespectful nature of the administrative element toward the council. Today, much has been discussed in the past few months and the collapse of Generals' respect. But the situation is so bad when members of Congress themselves and those who are expected to serve in the power of the greater power have no greater respect for the council than that they will not show up and intend to resist the government of Congress. There's something very unnatural about that attitude; it's a subject of thought, a respectable president. So I repeat what is previously stated and agree with others here that the project file is actually emptied. There is nothing that needs to be done in some whispering just before election, except for perhaps the weak transport program set out here by the government department. [[No.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u85	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u86	However, the small effort there is needed to be made, and more is needed than it would suggest. [[Up front.]] That's all there really is to agree here. Otherwise, there is nothing to wait for those who are waiting for an election.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u87	Very unfair.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u88	A respectable president. There are, in fact, two suggestions for this meeting right now. Another is an adjustment to a program laid down in the smaller parts, where things have so clumsyly been done that they have largely no formalized issues. How special it is that they are called for without committees! Let's just leave it alone. Hv. paritaprevir The Hjövar Hjörvar told us earlier that the proposal did not reach the point of postponing a meeting so that we know what we want to do over our heads. There's quite a part of the council, we'll deal with this proposal. If it is not accepted, it is the will of the greater part to continue with the program for this meeting. I just hope that the members of my body will respect the council and all of us for a democratic conclusion and that we will continue some work here that can help us continue to complete our terms here. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u89	V.E.G. President. We will continue here with a subsequent discussion on the proposal to conduct a four-year transport plan for 2015-2018. - Mr. President...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u90	The president wants to reiterate his request to the council members to give a good sound here in the Senate Hall and to note that outside the Senate hall, there is an excellent space to discuss other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u91	Thank you very much. President for. It is no doubt a little strange to return to this discussion, where it was left off during the previous day, pointing to the absence of the highest degree. Minister, including the highest. Minister of the state who proposed this resolution. Then it was the highest. The minister in the country, but I don't know where she is now, she has any legitimate reason not to be here, at least the Minister isn't here now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u92	The president wants to draw attention to the highest level. Minister's on his way here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u93	Thank you so much for this information, chief. President. Of course, I welcome it. The minister be on his way to the house. This discussion does not prevent mention of the past and the previous years of judgment. On this matter, the worst has been going wrong. Government to bring in a transport plan and get it approved. This programme is valid for 2015, of course, and for 2016 and is now released in October, so it really applies only to the remaining months of 2016 and then to 2017 and 2018. But in spite of the defects obviously involved, I think that everyone agrees completely that this process of transportation is still important. I think there's some will, natural, so it'll be taken care of, even if we can discern what changes are necessary and should be done on it. The saddest part is that there is no money in the transportation system, and it would surely have been good to use the economic benefits that have resulted in the strengthening of the transport system. It is also impossible to avoid thinking that even now only a few days of election are things moving, and there is a greater willingness to bring improvements in the transport program, which has yet been called after a large part of this ideal period. But as I say, I still think it's time to celebrate that we've come to this place. I don't think there's really any big disagreement about that, because it's been said to my side. A transport committee supports the changes that come from a greater part of the process. Committee of Congress, of course, would like to contribute even more. I think everyone knows, and I've even tried his own skin or personal transportation that the road system is falling apart. I don't think there's any disagreement about the lack of money being funded on new projects either. People are concerned that money is not even enough to keep the missing as far as it can go, but it's just getting worse. This is shown in the committee's list of my parts already. The Environment and Transport Committee that at the meeting of the Committee, representatives of the Road Building have pointed out that there would be an 85.9 billion to be provided. Every year in maintenance of roads alone, however, it would take 11 billion dollars. Annually to improve the state of the patient's health and safety as well as the necessary maintenance. It also states in the opinion of the partial memory that according to the Convention's Relations of Transport, this number is 7 billion for the next two years, i.e. In 2017 and 2018, but if it did not agree, it is clear that the road system will continue to worsen because this amount will not even be enough to stay gone. More of it. The Environment and Transport Committee suggests that this joint will be raised to 8 billion each year prior to 2017 and 2018, but it is still missing to achieve what the Roadmaker says needs and considers less. In order to increase that amount, the committee suggests that it will be raised to 9.5 billion annually, in order to start building up the system. Under that suggestion, I accept. I think it's less of a dog. The environment and transport authorities are advised that in transport planning it is important that knowledge and opinions on the field be appreciated and that they should try to avoid random decisions. I think it's extremely important to work things that way because I don't think it's a good thing or that it's our job at the Council to be pushing around from some kind of political, national, or ideal point of view where we're going to make road repairs or new projects. Today, however, members of Parliament may be familiar with their local territory and may know some things about the better going and completely natural that we have opinions about it. But I think it's always important that we, as the Allied Parliament, be made aware that we are the members of the whole country, so it's important that we take our major experts and we avoid some kind of random decision that we're going to make in the first place. At the same time, a good conversation can be observed with the different parts of the country, and it can be pointed to a business venture, such as. were already assigned to the national parish program. As I said, much knowledge is also available in the ideals. I still think we must always keep this complete picture underneath. These two things need to be weighed on somehow. What surprised me a little when I began to study this committee opinion, because I don't have a place to sleep. The Environment and Transport Committee is that I couldn't find it when I was reading some information from the source. the majority of the committee that some information is discussed on climate issues. It may be that I haven't reached the lice considered well enough, and then well. paritaprevir Þórhallsson's palace corrects me if I'm wrong, but I couldn't sense that there was anything about climate, especially in the committee's list of parts. I felt that we had recently approved the Paris Convention, which is one of the most important and most important things we've ever done at this council. This contract is of utmost importance to our future and to whether we will ever succeed in overcoming climate change. But one of the things that we find in a committee party. The National Affairs Committee on the Paris Convention is that one of Iceland's leading parishes when it comes to meeting this contract is being made up of transport. There's something that I think we should take very seriously, and we have to take very seriously, and we need to put the extra weight on the job. The smaller part of it. However, the environment and transport authorities take up climate targets and also believe that the speed at which they work is reached is to reduce the share of transport fossil fuels and to increase renewable energy. This is one of the most important things in the future if we are to be successful in controlling climate change. There are certain factors - I feel a little uncomfortable using the word for application in this one because it is too positive in my mind while climate change is extremely negative and it will have tremendous negative consequences, all the way Iceland has the opportunity to reduce emissions. Therefore, I take to heart the emphasis laid on the variety of transport and also feel very important to promote public transport and to fit in for those who choose the most environmentally friendly mode of transport, such as walking or riding. A respectable president. It is a little special to be standing here discussing transport plans at this time during this ideal period when we are out of the council's work programme. In fact, there is nothing more to be said than having to make a deal on how to complete this council and get out of here and start a campaign. To me, it is the monotonous thing that if this case is completed, which I believe, in fact, is a fairly broad agreement, it must be agreed. So I think it must be done by also agreeing to a change form from the smaller part of the problem. Environmental and Transport Committee, i.e. that both suggestions from a greater part of the history of the problem. The Senate Committee will be accepted as well as the minority part. I am optimistic about the possibility that they could be settled on this matter. You see, I think we all agree that it is absolutely important that we go on making money to improve, especially our road system, but, of course, some of the other things I have not discussed in my speech. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u94	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his excellent speech. Still, I wanted to ask her a few questions. The first has to do with the comment. paritaprevir Just before, Mr. Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodin son mentioned, under the supervision of President, said that there were no important issues left. When the senator agrees with this interpretation, e.g. the lack of importance in the handling of transport plans? I would have personally considered it extremely urgent and have found nothing else and I would really want to hear her stand on this figure. I also feel that the Senator's calling in the highest order is a blow to me. Minister of the state, when we are primarily considered from the greater part and smaller parts here for the council. In spring, the secretary of the Interior set out a plan for transportation, and it was given a detailed discussion. It is more than anything else that is involved in the adjustments discussed here. Is the Senator not in agreement that we senators have a legal case on our behalf, and it is for us to propose a very detailed arrangement that I have considered? I believe that the increase in transport has shown positive results. In two years, we are adding just over 12 billion to this group, and in the large context, there is a large amount of money. Other than that, I thank you. A senator before the speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u95	V.E.G. President. Of course, transport programs are very important. Therefore, it is hard to say that there has been no approved transport plan for the last loss and years. I hope that what I'd like to allow myself to say has been here for the last few days at the council, where the General Plan has gone out, has not caused us to have a problem when it comes to it simply because the days are reduced until the elections that we have to complete it. As the days begin to drop, the nature of the matter will be reduced according to a smaller time for each congregation case that can be completed here. I hope, however, that the presidents of the Party of Georgia will have conversations that we have discussed here today and yesterday, under the supervision of the President, which are necessary to take place in order to know exactly what cases the chairman of the administrations put in place and would like to use the time to finish. Then I think the council can do a lot of things, but we need to know where the focus is. That's what we've been calling for. I have to answer this with the highest. Secretary of the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u96	A respectable president. I think the situation is very conflicting. She acknowledged earlier, under the President's meeting board, that she was in need of a lawsuit for some sort of program and the cases that the government wanted to end. However, what has been on the program here for the past few days is a transport strategy, and I know that there is a wide and solid agreement to complete a transport program. I couldn't hear any better at what I heard. A senator but who wanted and felt that it was important to complete a transport plan and that it had not been done. Still, she is willing to take part in delaying the progress. There is no need for a special agreement between the directors of the board to complete a transport program. The importance of completing this important matter has been repeatedly shown here in the Generals' sales. [[The president calls.]] So why don't we make every effort to finish this good thing and get into something else?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u97	Madam President. I completely deny that the government has been in the middle of a filibuster. [[Up front.]] The government has not been here to file a lawsuit, the government has been trying to get it straight now that the Council's work programme is out, the time has simply passed according to the plan to which we should work, and then it returns to the highest level. The government and the directors of the administrations to come and tell us what they stress to finish. We're not just in here somewhere during this council winter. We're only a few days before the election, and that's why this needs to be settled. Although I want a transport plan to be accepted, I really don't know if it really matters everything that we do now, whether it happens tomorrow or after a month. I'm sorry, but it's just that here's a good opportunity to put money into the road system, and you might ask yourself: " Is it perhaps the role of a new government to accept it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before a very good talk and had thought to ask her materially about what she was discussing here. First, I'd like to stop for a second. The director of the Transport Committee is here to explain why. paritaprevir The Steinunn Árnadóttir Arnaddóttir, whatever it is that she herself hurts as a member of a government opposition. I just want to make sure of that. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra of the Árnadóttir is fully able to explain for herself what she means by saying in her terms of opposition to her government. If so, then as far as it depends on you. A senator was saying here about climate change and energy change. I agree with the senator, and I feel that today, in 2016, it would be a great improvement in the transport program that energy exchange was being discussed. It's important, when we make too little money here, that we expect to build up bases around the country where cars can take electricity into their tanks, if you can say so, so that we can electrically drive the country. This, of course, needs to be discussed with a transport plan. I just want to agree with what the senator once said is missing. Can the senator see how we could improve this? The smaller parts bring it up in their opinion, but the climate is important. [[The president calls.]] We need to talk about them here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u99	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's one big Ólafsdóttir for this question. I wholeheartedly agree with her that this is what we're supposed to stress and talk with all the seriousness and weight, i.e. How to adapt to transport energy. I would think this is the very thing that must be wise to discuss in cooperation with the rural society, how they can reach their stations, for example, where they should begin. It may not be possible for us to set up stations at every local community at the same time, somewhere to begin. Then I think this conversation is extremely important. I would think it was one of the obvious qualities to discuss. Because we're discussing the climate issues related to this, I'd like to mention here at the end because I didn't get involved in my talk earlier, that there is no mention of transportation in connection with the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people when it comes to transportation. I was studying now, just using a word - searching, transportation plan for 2015 to 2026. [[The president calls.]] There's no mention there, either. That's what I think is another thing that we have to take into account when discussing transport plans, since transport is, of course, one major bioavailability issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator with good and clear answers. I agree with her that, of course, rural society is to be more involved. Of course, I expect them to appear before the committee and have given their opinion. I know it's the highest. The Environment and Transport Committee must have worked this way, taking into account what various rural areas throughout the country have said about this strategy. It's my opinion that we should do less here at the Council to determine what rural societies are doing in all parts of the country. We are to trust them in managing their projects and plans themselves, and we too trust them to set priorities; they have shown that they can do so well. See what? A senator insists that we, for example, can do this in the construction of tourist facilities, allow the countryside only to take the ball and control things better? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u101	Madam President. I think it's really important that we who work here at the Generals don't get too high and think we know everything about everything. Rather, it should be our custom to get the situation into the process that most people have found out about it. Perhaps it is more of us to try to keep a view of what is happening on national level and then to rely on our communities to make their own plans. I believe that these include the work being done in the national parish program as a very good example of such work done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u102	President. There is one thing that is tremendously good at the council hall: By listening to members of Congress on different litigation classes - Piratars often cannot sit on committees because various committees are at the same time - you become more informed about the opposite categories. I've heard through conversations, and by listening to the smaller part that the memory part has brought some very useful changes to the plan, suggestions that you would have thought would have a reason for this two-year plan, because it's clear that this term period is coming to an end. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator how she feels, from conversation with other members of Congress, by being well within this category, whether she understands whether she wants the more part to accept the adjustment proposals. I know, from what I've heard and watched, that the smaller part has been working very closely on this transport program. Therefore, it would be a good question if members of the greater part of the committee and of the council along with their ministers would take into account that the new agency will soon be seen. Who will have that commission may not be the main theme. Rather, it is our main theme that we have a transport program that will benefit all the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u103	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir And for her question, Birgitta Jónsdóttir. It says on the status of the mercenaries that a transport programme for 2015 and 2016 has not been approved. Therefore, the schedule we will discuss here is only for two years of the four that would apply to it. It also says things about this transport program, as is proposed by the highest level. Minister, to more things a bit. The Environment and Transport Committee suggests an extensive change in the quality of the network, including the setting up of more capitals. The smaller part of it. However, the environment and transport committees feel that it is not enough; they need more, including information from representatives of the Roadmaker, who point out that it takes much more money just to not make the road system worse, as would be the case. I don't trust to tell the members of the body if it's best to agree with the proposals as well. Named. [[The president calls.]] I just don't think it makes any sense except to do it, because we don't want to be stuck with a worse and more dangerous road system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u104	Thank you so much for your good answers. It sheds ever more light on the importance of high priority. The minister of the seminar is present so that the minister's position can be asked about the changes made to the majority of the items and smaller objects. Therefore, it is not that this should be distributed in the House of Congress that the Ministers who accompany the seminaries submit themselves to the debate at the Council, which is unfortunate. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would know if it was a tradition that transport plans are so greatly reduced by committees. It is very strange how long this has been here on the committee, whether the senator recognizes an example of the country's being virtually a means of transportation for two years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u105	Madam President. Of course, some committees may take a long time to work, and this is a major matter. I don't know. I don't have a seat. The Environment and Transport Committee, so I don't know for myself how many meetings have been accepted and if this is a long time for the Committee's work. I, however, think it's amazing, and it's the highest. Not to much credit, Ministers, that the approved transport programme has not been in progress for this year and year. I wonder--I think there's something that needs to be considered very serious if there's not a budget available at this council, so that we can handle this matter properly - if it really matters anything at all, to let the case simply wait for a new government after the election has ended. [[The president calls.]] I don't know if that's what it's all about right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u106	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss the short transport plan, i.e. The four-year plan for the 2015/2018 year. If people are not clear, 2015 is over and 2016 is long over. We're going to discuss this now because the short plans for transport have not been adopted, as are clearly attributed to the top members of the Committee, i.e. how they came to live up here. Finally, a transport plan is put forward that we'll discuss here. That transport plan was far too small, if I were in a mood, I would say: about almost nothing. As an example, in the entire northern region, the estimated 200 billion people. K. to transport next year, which would have been enough for 1, 4 to 1.5 miles [1.5 km] on a dirt road. That's all. In 2018, 150 million were to be left. K. for transport in the north. So the protocol program submitted was of little or nothing at all. Transport programmes have improved in the management of environmental and transport committees. I don't hesitate to say there's a head of the environment and transportation committee, huh? paritaprevir Þórhallsson, a large part of it along with virtually all other members of the committee, whether they have more or less parts. Here, representatives of the smaller section have declared that they spoke for various projects set in there, and we support the changes proposed by the committee. It would be better now because a little meat is finally on your bones. I repeat. paritaprevir Þórhallsson, chairman of the Committee, deserves credit, as well as, of course, all members of the Environment and Transport Committee, for what is being done there and what is proposed. I like this kind of work that mentioned itself and putting it in front of the executives and making up for the better. If I think I'm right, the addition of 113/412 billion years to 2017 and 2018, or 51.7 billion a year, it just shows the need for it. It was also the idea for spring, but then it came down because then the directors said, "No, thank you, it's not going to be accepted, it's too much money. It may be the only option for elections after a few days that the transport program will be adopted now so that a policy can be started with a transport program that has a little meat on the bones. What I'm going to do is talk about it first, a respectable president, in the ten minutes I have, is the income it has. There are 19.7 billion next year of market income and an additional 8 billion from state funds, a total of 28.7 billion. In the accompanying data, we can read that collections from market to road transport have not increased to the level of prices. That is why it is said that if income had been raised to a level of prices, the cost would be 23 billion instead of 16. It was worth no less than 7 billion dollars. I've never understood why the factor isn't raised as much as the part that runs straight into the state fund. In fact, I've said, and I once put it in a speech, that while oil prices were so low, we should have raised the fuel charge and oil charge at least six months of the year, during the summer season, 13 ◯15 points. rental cars drive around the country. But as we know, tourists pay fuel costs from their rental cars. So here it is just being added. I also welcome the proposal to strengthen the domestic flight to cover high costs for the inhabitants of the area away from the capital area - and in this discussion, examples have been made by various European countries where this is done, both in flying and in transport. I welcome their proposals, and I believe that they will not be implemented wisely. I remind you that there is an increase in funding for public transportation in the capital area about 1.2 billion dollars, in the bus. It is a good thing to increase the number of passengers there and reduce the number of public driving. That's why I say, at the same time, a respectable president, that it is necessary to consider the proposal regarding domestic flights, which are far too expensive and make it a small number of passengers. Let's get these ideas and what's presented here. In a ten - minute talk, you do not have the opportunity to review many of these factors, but I refer to my first talk. But it's finally put in an investment to finish Rock Road. It was on the plan of the last government, but the money in it was taken into maintenance. The following year, they were to be returned, but that did not happen. But that's it. Finally, there is a budget for the use of the material coming out of a Valallian tunnel to reassemble the airport at the Akureyri Airport, which is on the other side. If there's a jet landing, they have to stand on the ground, so it's way too short on the runway, and in fact, it's out of control. This money only transports the material and puts it in place. Then it's going to drop and build a proper flight load. But because of the pull that has been on the move, some others have already recovered at probably 100 to 120 you. cubic meters of material that will not then be placed in the airport, so we can't use it in the same way. A respectable president. During my first talk, I discussed other aspects of the transportation program. I'm saying that because this group of paintings has been my heart language during the 17 years I've been in Congress. I was assigned to a transportation committee and have been proud of what has been done there. I'd like to continue to discuss it because the infrastructure available through improved transportation, especially in a country where transportation is difficult and the road system and other factors are extremely poor in many places, is of great impact. A big campaign has been made that has, rather, contributed to the public and to the business, and it has resulted in extensive development and development of communities as a result. For example, I consider the significance of The Bible has had for my hometown, Sigludur. I also name Bolungarvík. I'm calling Norse. These tunnels will be used next year. This can continue for a long time. The nature of the case, a respected president, is a long-term program. Whether we're working on one or two tunnels each year, which should be natural, we need to think ahead. That was exactly why I made a proposal for Congress in April. to hide the Minister of the Interior, which would then hide the road, to start the necessary research and prototypes of a globe between Siglusfjord and River. Then why make a suggestion? I'm not saying this needs to be done for the next two to five years. This is a long-term goal. This is a long - term connection that replaces dangerous and difficult ways for the general population, where there is a high level of soil and aquifer now at this time, all will be started just once due to precipitation. Since then, other factors have become involved. With increasing traffic around the Sources of the Earth, the road through town has become very dangerous, and it is estimated that if the old boy tunnel continues, which is a child of its time, they are actually in a sealess place, arrangements have to be made regarding the new driveway because it is not possible to have the driveway through dense apartment streets. Hence, this long - term thought is expressed there to initiate preparation, research, in order to enable a number of engineers and other members to cross the area and examine maps and other such factors, and to imagine how best to do this. According to the information I have received, a five - mile [5 km] tunnel from Sigludar can be made to the River, which would also shorten the way very much. I mention in the process that this way could be a spare route for Oxnadal Island when unable, which often happens in winter because of bad weather. This could be my last session at the Council on Transport. I hope things get a little further out here at the council, and hopefully we'll get ready to finish it, but maybe. is this my last speech as far as it goes. That is why I could not help but remind myself of this idea that was worth considering. There is no need to spend much money on it. There are no drill studies or anything until two, three, four, five years before implementation. You don't spend money that far ahead. However, research, inspection, and preparation are important precursors. I welcome the added addition to the committee's proposal and hope that the addition will be approved. It is not possible in the proposed schedule, which was of little or no value. [[The president calls.]] This is merely bone meat, and perhaps my words too, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] I talked about the need for a further examination of tunnels, whether they're Sylvester tunnels or Eelfjörður tunnels, or other urgent projects which provide a means of transportation and provide a great deal of security to 100, 150 years of age. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u107	Madam President. Thank you. Kristján L. Möller for his speech. I don't know if it'll be his last. I hope he gets to come back up here and answer me again and then he can only continue to discuss transport matters that I know are issues of character. A senator's mind. I listened attentively to it. A senator said about tunnels, for I myself am a little bit of an amateur about a tunnel, and I think it's an excellent means of transportation, and I agree that we need to have ambition there and be a little bit of a fan. Of course, it is quite remarkable and something that we should keep in mind, which I noticed in the history of whales. paritaprevir The House of Þórhallsson, with the opinion of the greater part. Environmental and transport committees, it has been found that a tunnel strengthens the position of women in the more scattered regions. This is a point I think it's up to us senators to take notice of and always keep in mind. I'd like to ask you what. A senator because he spoke of the need to accept the changes proposed to the case. I didn't think it was quite clear from the language of the day. The senator may not have to accept suggestions from both sides. Environmental and transport committees, which are a lot more extensive and are saying a lot about the transport programme and the less part of the process. Committee of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u108	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the questions raised. Yes, it is, and perhaps so. I should have made them better aware, but I thought I had done so in the previous talk, i.e. suggest the memory of the object which goes further, increase more. If the suggestions of the majority of the segments I expect and support will be accepted, it is certainly necessary to accept the less part's suggestions, too, because they include them. Consider what we can say about extreme neglect in recent years, including the following: during the most extensive years, i.e. 2008, 2009, with Iceland record being struck on transportation, to deal with what was then neglected. The proposed fraction is expected to improve 2.5 billion dollars. to the budget to be added annually to 2017 and 2018 for maintenance. In other words, a respectable president, we are saying that now that we were better off, and that it was always our understanding of the last government, which often with a bad taste in the mouth of the needed to cut down things, although the transport business did not land in there from what I've said before about the best of my life, this amount would have to come in because we're working here to make up a few sins. It has to be said that we were aware of this with a number of major projects in various areas, which, rather, have strengthened wood, include the example of the weapons route, the route to weapons farms, where 40, 45 miles [45 km] were offered on a single board. Of course, it was a part of maintenance. Once built up, there is no need for maintenance. However, much more is now being maintained, as has been observed by the representatives of the Road Building, which is why the more part of it is needed to increase by a billion, but the smaller part wants to go further. [[The president calls.]] The answer is: The best chance that during those final days before election, both proposals would be adopted, bringing a good job to the Council of Vega to work after 2017 and 2018. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u109	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I think this is exactly what we must easily agree on, that, of course, our road system is just getting worse. That is why it is so set in my mind that the council is now in these last days, if at all, something to do with this plan, to do it properly, for the money really needs to be maintained. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the body of elders was given what was also included in his speech, which covered the balance of income. I'd like to ask, because they're cutting numbers, if they had increased their income, this would be another 7 billion that we would have from playing for the road. Has a what? Did the senator explain why it has not been done? Can there be any Hebrew evidence to that effect? I don't see them, so I ask. I'd also like to ask: Won't it also be necessary to ensure that the marketd income will be given to the road and not go to anything else? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u110	V.E.G. President. Here we go. A senator into the main issue we should discuss most of all, i.e. about the income. Afterward, we will be able to change that. It looks like it's someone's business. It wouldn't be a problem. Regarding the markets that I made in my speech only earlier, I would present to members of the council who are here listening to the page. 28th It says that the market income will be expected to be increased at least during expenses. It's expected, it hasn't been done. The Senator asks me, "Why hasn't it been done? " I think that's because we're going to raise these things according to prices. Then they raise the portion that flows directly into the state fund and releases the items to come to the road structure, both for new buildings and for maintenance and service. I wonder if the answer is merely that humans are looking at an increase in the index of consumer prices. Of course it does. But why has a government fund been swelling over income, including because of tourists, mentioned in the minority opinion, who take from them, why hasn't they been returned there? I think that's the answer. It's also quite remarkable that in recent years income has not increased to the level of prices. If they had, we would've had 7 billion. More on construction money and they would've had those years. If so, we would not be referring to the need to make suggestions as we are doing now because it would have been much longer. A respectable president. This is the beautiful, extensive publication that the Roadmaker has published for many years entitled News News About certain things that are being done, reported plans, said about designs, and then offers. This year, this time in October, this is 9th issue. [[The president calls.]] I remember a time when transportation was a lot done, and there were 25 issues this year. The number of numbers may tell us just how little has been done in the past few years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u111	V.E.G. President. I would like to start my speech by thanking the cooperation of the Committee as well as by expressing my appreciation for this discussion and the joy of being a body of Congress, at least Those who have spoken before agree that this case will end before the election. I think it's very important that this strategy succeeds in order that the road model has a clearer authority to work on the rest of this year and for the next two years. I get 20 minutes' rations, they go faster, and I'm going to set my speech so that I'll start talking about what I know best about, or the ideal thing I come from. I'll see if I have to give a second talk to discuss general matters and things that are more about other terms and the country as a whole or if I have time to finish it. We'll do a lot of reviews. I think that what the Environment and Transport Committee has been adding since the original proposal is not to any of the Committee's wishes. As we have seen in the discussion, there has been a good partnership between most and smaller parts, and the national body has helped us tremendously with its policy and priorities that we are actually following. We follow policies that are acceptable within each part of the country. I think that, in time, we should try to move away from this form of providing and working on a transport plan, it should be rather a list, what would come next, so that there would be no ideal spot or Senate fight in a committee or a Senate hall, but it would be just a priority and priorities for traffic and traffic security. I'm gonna start by talking here about some roads. In my district, the Southern District, we haven't been much of the growth in traffic and the tourist currents that have come into the country. Of all places, it is likely the largest part of the South American road system where most passengers come through the Leifs Station and either come here to the capital area and then into the Southern, or most of it, and then go or even straight there. At that point, there may be a tendency to start on a Rhine Way, but there has been a tremendous growth in traffic. If I recall correctly and am not telling the truth about it, there has not been a fatal accident on the Smokey Way since it had been doubled. I think we should look to more areas where there is a high speed of traffic. In fact, we're working on these blood vessels out of Reykjavík, Westland, and Southland roads, that could be a road that could travel at high times, especially during the summertime. We suggest that we cooperate with the group that calls themselves stopping here and no further, who are working in the road system from Reykjavík to the air station and past towns in the Smokejanes, to have emergency work done on the phone morning. It will be consulted immediately next year, and the following year, there will be renewed on Hafnarway, there are no very expensive projects, of 100 and 200 million, which hopefully make it impossible for us to see more fatal accidents. But then the long - term task is to double the rest of the section from the capital to the terminal. There are also conventions that need to be made there on the road to danger. One good project is running out now, it's a grating of Hellishi from Hellishimannization to the Kamoons. It was completed now in 2016, and we are taking up the road between Whos and Selephos, which is an extremely dangerous road, a very busy population, a lot of leftovers and others, home on farms, farm equipment, heavy transport - all of this has an impact on traffic safety and, as a very important operation to attack and attack in the years to come. The road is starting with her. In the process, there is a new Elbal Bridge. The elf bridge as it is today is under constant supervision. It's being measured because she can't stand heavy transport. How important it is that we get a new Elfjörg bridge east of town! It takes distances from the countryside east of Selephos to the capital, but it is also a major safety issue not to receive heavy transport and traffic, which is not relevant to the town, to the City of A year, or to Selephos. It has been called mornings where the trucks have eaten, indeed, not, as far as I know best, after the call morning was doubled. I don't know how many runways there are along the way, definitely one six or seven corridors, so it's obvious to me to move the highway out of town. If so, we also suggest that they act quickly in several parts of the European Union. It is also a massive traffic system, as we know, because of the gravity of that region, compare the golden ring and other beautiful places. We recommend that the funds be placed in the St. John's Way, which is a very extensive tourist route, but also in the Bishop's road. It's just for the road to make a 60 million, a little money, and also for the smoke road to be rushed, the next year it will be attacked, and it'll be finished in 2018. If I move a lot farther east, we come to one broad edge that I think is one of the most dangerous things we have in the transport system. They're still 39 on the ring road. What's dangerous about them is that the maximum velocity is 90 miles per hour. Often visitors arrive where there is no knowledge of Iceland's circumstances, even during snowfall, darkness, encounter one another, not so good at all. The roads are above and from these bridges thin, and unfortunately, only road markings and markings are lacking. The majority of the transport and environment committees suggest that in cooperation with the less part 500 million will be added each year 2017 and 2018, especially in monotonous bridges. About two to three bridges for 500 million, or four to six in those years, depending on the extent of the start, or whether a stone or steel bridge needs to be removed, whether or not a road line has to be moved with subsequent or what. With this rise of billions in the next two years, our hope in an environmental and transport committee is that four or six singles can be removed from the round road, and the road will, of course, choose where the funds will best be used for traffic safety. I think we should strive to see that one-big edges will be eliminated. My favorite job in this program is on the Hornground River, where the road will be considerably shorter. There will be a proper two - lane bridge and it will replace three single bridges. I don't remember exactly what year it's scheduled, but I think it's 2017 or 2018. I am also immensely happy with the attention that has been being given to our country's ports. If I use an English dictionary, with the permission of a president, the rejections are very un-sexy. They don't see much, they're expensive monuments, but they're enormously important. They're important for import and export, they're important for our second-largest industry. We have tried to emphasize this, and this process of transportation is merely a sign. In my district and, in fact, in other places, steel panels are getting old, over 40 years old, having been pierced, and becoming dangerous. I think it's time we made more of an effort to maintain and rebuild our country's ports. At other ports, I believe that one of the most profitable means of transportation that we can attack is the harbor of the Village Harbor. For very little money it can be enlarged immensely, receive ships of up to 200 feet [180 m] in length, which opens an enormous opportunity for the Southland and the southwest corner in the out and import. There is a wide range of land around the Red Sea, and it has been found that this may reduce the time at sea by shipping for up to 18 hours. It contains direct value. Because I'm in the harbors, and I can't help but write about the changes Vilhjálmur Árnason's proposal, which is written to me by the government, from the greater part, but it's about to attack and build on a new Western island vector. I'll admit here that I've been reluctant to do this, but it's been of interest to the case and to improve it, because when we're making an attack on 3.6 billion, we don't get many attempts. So I think it's a really positive step to being offered out a Western island. Within a few years, a ferry that can serve the Vista is better, for as they have said and I join them when it is their highway, the highway to the Western Islands. I would like to attend the short time that I will discuss two more points and in the process of measuring for changes in transport planning. 1680. It calls out 20 million each year 2017 and 2018. It is extremely important to keep doing so. Although research has lasted over 20 years, it is important to know how the beaches and the sea behave. Thereafter, action is required. There's only one thing waiting for the Hornland, 2,000 people in society, if theynnis closes up as it looked before the last winter, or the last winter, where larger ships were no longer able to sail in and out of the harbor; cornerfjording would be broken down. So I think it's really important to keep this money in place, to complete these research, so that they have interconnected, they don't get lost in chronological order. Then somewhere, we have to set the dot and start experimenting. Finally, I want to establish one point of the long - term program. I haven't noticed her all. Then I'd especially like to mention a tunnel through a mountain of testing. I think that based on the text of the long-term program, the 12-year plan, because a long-term plan will not be agreed here before election, it will need to be re-enacted once more and new environmental and transport committees take over while this case goes back to the State Department. I direct the message to the secretary who will direct the Ministry of Internal Affairs then, or to the people who are working on a transportation program, if they are listening to me here, that wording will be adjusted where a tunnel is spoken under test. It is now spoken of a tunnel at the Street Bridge at test. It's a different location than where the line will come in. The road line has been adopted in a major organization and has gone through two elections in the Snow Valley, so I'm sorry for the way it's said in the plan. I think it's a good thing to make things right before the council gets things done on a material basis. I would also like to add that although these tunnels are in the third period of time, research is in the third period, there is no problem in starting tests immediately, since these tunnels are very short and very successful on their own, we need to inject more money into our transport system. If there is a chance to drive the private effort to improve transportation, to increase traffic security - the Vikings, everyone I've talked to, feel that this is a big security issue. There one of the largest country's lanes, the only one driven by more is the Hellish oath, and the lowland road out of town, and this is an enormous security issue. I would like to be measured for the first or second period of research, and then be determined how long in the order of this procedure should be carried out, or if it should be used by a private member. During the past 30 seconds, I have expressed my joy by adding another 150 million to the Viking seas, doubled it. During the last winter, the coast became a bad impression of the weather and the ocean. A respectable president. I think I need to put myself back on the rosary, since I've just considered one of the districts.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u112	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I agree with most of the things he says. When you read the former opinions of the greater part and the smaller part, you can see that it's the same thing now. There is a call for more money in the road system, and people agree that much infrastructure is needed, especially in the light of the large number of tourists in the country. Hv. A senator came into it only and spoke even. about one - build bridges, and there was an accident on tourists. I wondered about the meaning of roads and that it is discussed in the committee opinion. We know that there is a high cost of improving the road system so that it will be as safe as possible, but markings can certainly do very much. I sometimes feel like I'm driving in areas where I don't know well and I'm like... at T-gatnalls--I almost caught myself running off into an area where I didn't know well even though it was marked and I think I'm reasonably awake at the wheel. It's not suggested, I think, any special funding for increasing meaning, yet emphasising it. I want to know what it is. A senator agrees with me that we should stress that this is something we could do right away. I often feel that the letters are small, I feel like I'm way too close to the turn. I was in Slovenia this summer, and there were big and cool markings. The question is, Should a transportation committee have rushed in to see how to mark it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u113	V.E.G. President. I thank you very much for this counter-regument and all these tips. I find it very interesting what the Senator is saying that we even need a special team on the road signs, maybe not. We're putting extra money in maintenance. Is this supposed to be of maintenance or even of some safety pot that the Road is carrying? Hv. A senator mentions bridges and markings, and I have had a special interest in them. I've sent a letter to the Vega type to encourage you to give more attention to one - wide bridge. There, I was mainly thinking of one solution. If the senators have run down the Kaambas, they'll see an order sign. They are blue and have large letters and are expected to keep you running at a fixed rate, although it is not forbidden to run faster. This is understood in all languages, is 60, 50, or 40, or any number. I would like to see, on the single bridges that are still on the highway, that there will be two or three signs on either side of each single bridge, 70, 50, 30. This says there is a danger along the way, that you may want to slow down, and if you miss one sign, you will reach at least the next one. I think it's wise. Of course, this costs something, and the very root of the bridge is not being attacked. But when you have little money between your hands, it can be better than losing a life or losing people in a serious accident.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u114	A respectable president. I know that the road is full of meanings, and the commission says that traffic security experts are meeting the Committee and working on changing conditions so that foreign tourists understand them. Because I was talking about Slovenia earlier, that is the area I was running around the capital. I'm sure that in that large country the meanings may not always be as good as I've had. Of course we make demands here in Iceland. We want roads as well as possible. At times, though, we need to keep in mind that despite the small size of that vast country, we are actually amazed at how good a road system we have built up. We just need to do better. We know that. Then you wonder, in view of the 30% increase in tourists between years of age. I'm sure they'll go around and take advantage of the highways, and one of the best in the South. If they do not go to rental cars on their own, they go on bus trips and other activities, so the pressure is intense. Then you wonder, " We need to build this wood, but how should we finance it? ' Where are we gonna get the money for this? In the short future, we have repeatedly noted that we had wanted to use the money that went into debt in another situation. I know that me and what. A senator does not agree there, but somehow we need that money. So, should we raise the oil charge or the gas charge, or should we look to collect so that if you drive on certain roads, you pay for it? In this discourse it has been noted that fuel costs have not been raised as a result of GDP. It is mentioned in the committee that we have obtained money. That's what I'm wondering. I'm asking why. A senator has some opinions about that. [[The president calls.]] How do we make provision for the building up we need?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u115	V.E.G. President. This includes what I would like to include in my second talk. But I'm going to hit it a little bit in the two minutes I've got here. First, only in the case of road accidents: Banana accidents and serious traffic accidents are between 160 and 170 a year, and if they occurred in other areas or in other places of society, they would be called a disaster. In seawater, a so - called zero vision has been used, i.e. that we do not want anyone to die. Nobody. This has been developed through security procedures, seminars, education, security systems, and regulations. I think we should work on picking up a zero view in traffic too. This is how we should build our transport. We'd have to have the cars that way, the schools, the rules. But this does not happen overnight, and it should be a long-term project to enter a negative view. Well, that's my opinion, anyway. I have 30 seconds left for the financing. I examined it only earlier this year. If I understood correctly, my income is just part of the fees they collect from the cars or taxes on the road. I listed a few while the senator referred to me as an oil charge, a fuel charge, a heavy tax, and a car tax. If I remember correctly, this is said in advance, it's around 60 billion. That's three times the size of a year's schedule. We may be able to pay more of the taxes we charge the traffic into the road system, but we do not use them elsewhere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u116	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur Einarsson for his speech. It is fun to listen to people give a talk when they are clearly speaking with knowledge. It made me feel very clear in a matter of course. A senator's knowledge of his district is quite well, and of course it's good. Therefore, in his district, it was interesting and productive to listen to a talk on transportation and road transport. We can then debate somewhere else about the sexual ports, but I think we might not take them up here and now. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. At the beginning of his talk, he preached that his time was limited, so he was going to focus on his district, and he also announced at the end of his talk that he would have to return to the second speech to talk about the rest of the land. I wanted to hear what a sight it was. A senator has this, i.e. This political and idealistic perspective, and how we, as members of the Parliament, can make it happen and be in some balance. I'm at least thinking that it's not good for us to leave the Council for some race to give the highest promise in certain areas without having any complete picture underneath. I'd like to pray. A senator describes how he sees it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u117	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the question. It is not simple, so the answer will not be simple either. The most important and important thing about transportation is that we have certain funds for our event, and it will always be political how much we put into it. It will always be possible to add, and we have never fully established safety. The money's supposed to improve traffic safety and prevent accidents, that's my vision. Often, our goal can be lost if we have a large pressure group that calls us a telegram or calls us at home in a district, or to others we know. Then the traffic security vision may be lost. But traffic security is not simple either. Depending on the transport system, it depends on the volume of traffic, depending on so many factors. This in itself is relatively complex. It is very difficult for one committee to say what is better than what else is. EuroRAP has been measuring a road by certain standards, so I think it's a good idea that we should change our systems when we're setting priorities for what we're going to do first and what we'll do later, depending on the rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u118	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I realize that this is a big, important question that is hard to answer in two minutes, but I think it's an important case that we need to keep in mind. Surely, then, we must look to those who are best acquainted with the language in a national tongue. It is close to pointing to the representatives of the Roadmaker. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator's comments in his talk about us need more access to the transportation system. This was mentioned in connection with the security and the maintenance. It has been pointed out by the representatives of Vega that even more money is needed in a transport program just to survive the loss of the road system. That's, you might say, one huge security issue. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether he trusts to agree, votes with the adjustment proposals as a lesser part of it. Environment and Transport Committee proposed. It is, of course, suggested that there be an even greater amount of money for this important group of subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u119	V.E.G. President. I thank you for these questions and questions. I agree with it. A senator says. With the maintenance of the roads, there were 6 billion in the original proposal, it has been raised to 7 billion. The road says it'll get away if I get it right. They can just so stay gone. But if you want to be and work on the problems that have been raised since the collapse - then contributions to this category were affected, as in other cases - an injection has to be made, and the representatives of the Vega program believe that there are 11 billion. I think it would be a good way to accept an increase of 1.5 billion, suggested in the next two years. It would be good if we were to deposit that amount. I admit that I don't know them very well. They didn't remind me of the reviews. Some of it was from the West, and there was a clear priority, animal tunnel, and Daringindir next, and they did not want to do much to disrupt that priorities. On the other hand, I understand that less - desirable projects, such as Doomsfjörg and elsewhere, are important and will be more important as you get along and as tourists increase. I'm fully aware of that, but I would appreciate it if we agreed to the proposal for an increase in money for maintenance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u120	A respectable president. It's a huge deal we're talking about here. This is my first speech, but I've had some answers. I could do a lot of speeches, but I'm gonna start this thing off and see if it's good enough for me. It's interesting first, and to mention, that we're here to agree with a transport plan, the first of this council. A proposal was made for the 141th legislature but was not even discussed. Then she was reimbursed to the 143th Parliament, and she was not paid back at the 144th legislature, and then she was taken care of by the Environment and Transport Committee but did not receive the final payment. And now, in 2016 we are expected to accept this transport programme which is, if I am going to read from the opinion of the committee of more parts and smaller parts, in actual ignorance. Everyone seems to agree that we should have given more money to this important group of subjects. They need money for maintenance and new projects. As has been noted so far, we have 39 bridges on the highway 1. If my information is correct, they're probably made up of some committee party, there are 683 secluders in the whole country. Of course, there is no need for some of them to be carried out, they can be on humble roads, but we have 39 monotonies on highway 1 too much, and they are divided into only the South District and the Northeast. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir asked for monotonous bridges, asked for the expense of removing single bridges on highway 1 and received an answer from the State Department that it cost 13 billion. In the big context, looking at the amount of money that goes on transportation is not a large amount. Now, of course, the project is to be continued, always being improved and corrected, taking bridges, and changing them, but it is very slow to do so. As we discussed earlier, there have been serious accidents in tourists who may not know the phenomenon of a single bridge and may not understand the meaning. Then it is important that as long as we haven't fixed it, the meanings are quite clear, and it cannot be the expense we set for ourselves. I know that the road has an understanding of this, but they still have to exist to make a sign like that. We will be told about the number of tourists and the pressures on the highways of the country because of them. We're building a transport system for the people of the country primarily. The service has been moving to urban areas, requiring easy transportation. If I take an example from my own district, I'm sure most women are going to be born in Akureyri Hospital right now, which means they have to get to Akureyri no matter what the weather, west and east. The demand for easy transportation is very rich and very normal, so all have opinions on these matters and likely also believe that we should place more money in the system. Where, then, is the money to come from? In the bright future, we have repeatedly noted that we regret the money that went into the debt crisis. I'm aware that the department of delinquency is about whether it's worth a lot of money. However, when we came out of the collapse and had to cut down on as many areas as possible, we did not succeed in building up as would have been, meeting the need for maintenance and development, and requiring it. If we stay on our backs, we'll be more expensive when we're going to attack, repair, or build up. Hv. paritaprevir Einarsson mentioned earlier, interestingly, that he believed we were collecting 60 billion in all manner of traffic expenses, automobile tax, fuel costs, and all of this. Some of them go back on transport, but the rest will be expected in other matters. If we are to take more of this cake on transportation, we need to decide what to do first. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon spoke in a chair that did not limit our income to an increase in index, and we would have received considerable amounts of money. It's also stated, somewhere in the committee party of the greater part, that we had taken our money. I think I remember correctly that in the members of the greater section, it was decided that these charges should be raised. Then there is nothing more to do than to do it. Of course, if there is to be more money to be paid to the seminary, it must be collected elsewhere. I don't know exactly what they're waiting for. I think it's very important to discuss the traffic safety. We know that the foreign tourists are often not accustomed to driving on malared roads or very narrow malartic roads and are accustomed to a peak speed that is much higher than here. When I worked as a guide, I sometimes drove with Italians who paid very much. That is also true of us Icelanders. I drove away from Siglusar on the weekend, and inside the Fear of God, two cars passed over us. We were at legal speed, and cars crossed over in a tunnel. I don't think it was foreigners, can't be blamed, and I'm worried that the law on the road just isn't visible enough. We who often drive between Akureyri and Reykjavík take special care of ourselves around the carburettor in Hunsar County. There's been a lot of traffic control there, the only place I've ever been taken for driving too fast, and it's important, it's an effect. I'm also wondering how squeamish we are when people talk on the mobile phone in cars. All of us can examine ourselves in this regard. It's ridiculous that we shouldn't take it seriously. I know that in Denmark the fines are very high. People don't answer the phone in the car because they don't want to get high guilt. We have to look to this. Indeed, it is vital that we build as sure a path as possible. It is important to complete a double sleazyne track, as noted and work more diligently to separate lanes, to build roads according to the standards we know, and to indicate how roads can be as safe as possible. Of course, it takes meaning, and we need to get rid of one - sided bridges, but I also believe that law enforcement, education, and prevention are very important. Another one that does not have time to discuss here, but it is exciting and may also be scary are self - driving cars, which we will likely see in the future and how they will affect us. I don't think the accidents are often due to our forgetting or driving too fast under the circumstances, and it's probably just trying to stop us from doing so by all means. I wonder, for example. To me, why would we accept that sheep walk free on highway 1? No doubt everyone has experienced nearly an accident or an accident driving a sheep. As we grow up here, we know we're not supposed to stop, but the tourists don't know, and I remember a fatal accident in which a French woman died because they were trying to drive past sheep. It has to be fenced, it costs, but isn't it just the expense we go to to prevent even a fatal accident? In some areas, I sometimes feel that we are offering a risk home. More than that, the committee's list shows that there are discrepancies between financial and transport programmes. We discussed this on a financial committee when discussing the financial program. Now I don't remember if it was 3 billion or 5 billion. Yeah, it was 3 billion in there. As mentioned here, the amount of transport is not high, but there are still 3 billion, and somehow it needs to be figured out which side of this is on. The financial program no doubt assumed that the contributions for transportation were lower than they really are. This will probably be adjusted when financial programmes are updated. It's a factor of 75 million. K. additional contributions will be put into the public transportation system to meet congregations at a angle. There has been a serious problem, perhaps now seeing the end of them, but the public transportation that was brought up in the country is of utmost importance. It was very difficult, and in the part of the Ethal, the operation was not good, it was taken from a fund, and something else was wrong. The oil payment was expected to be reimbursed, and it was not. But the project is important, and I am very happy that it didn't fall into the way you almost felt you were heading for it and that money is put in an effort to straighten it out and make a mistake. This is important. The smaller part has changed proposals that go a little further. The majority of these initiatives are certainly also equipped to put more money on the others and on these projects, and I think it would be very good to consider the change in the memory of the part and transport plans as agreed by changes in both smaller and more parts. The opinion of the greater part can be reflected from the opinion that too much is missed, as it says here. If a table is served in the government budget, we need to make more money in this category if it's not for bad reason. Because this is a transport program, we talk a lot about the roads, but we also have ports and transport in the air. We have only discussed the domestic flight, which is of utmost importance to the region, and it has not been fully defined as the function of Istavia to the national field. Some feel that much is being built up in Keflavík, but it is likely necessary, while many other airports are even damaged, as you experience, e.g. ... onNorse. It's not really possible to talk about transportation without talking about Reykjavík's airport. Now you feel that it is a little more serious than talking about the idea of setting a new national level in the Washing Land. I was disappointed that after the so - called Rackt report was published, I thought that this report would lead to a discussion, we would proceed with it. Of course, the city's airport was not one of the advantages of that report. I think it's very important that we take up a discussion about Reykjavík's airport and find out if the airport should remain in the Watermies. If he is not to be there, what should he do? How can the international flight be guaranteed, a safe route to the capital area? How will this be done best? What does it mean if the international flight goes to Keflavík? We tape the biker here, and I feel that we need to start cutting some of the options off the board and see what advantages are practical. I'm not cutting it off. Personally, I think if the international flight went to Keflavík, it would almost pay for the Akureyrins to drive. Then some of the domestic flights are smiling. I don't know if more tourists would make up for going on the field. These factors are not addressed in the Committee on the proposal for a transport plan, but I feel it is urgent that we take this discussion seriously more seriously than we have so far. I would've wanted a lot more coverage on the Rackham report. I hope we see if there's any sense in the idea of Whale test. That may well be so. Personally, I would like the airport at Bessals Parks, when I'd fly across, look at land just outside the city. I know it's a goose, it's a question, could we find her someplace else? I don't know if the President is so much in the medical area that he's being disturbed by the approach. This is my personal opinion when I evaluate the position in the attic and look over the area, maybe not very scientific. I'll have it over for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u121	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit before the speech. It is widely involved in its overcoming, with a huge number of cases, a travel program for several years. Much needs to be kept under control there, and attention is needed. I felt that there was an important focus in her speech on the security issues. I think it will be late to say that they have too much emphasis on them. I think that, on the other hand, it needs to be examined in the light of how we develop our road system, how we work on it, how we work on it, and how we improve our security. I wholeheartedly agree with that question. One senator said that it would be good to keep our chins down. I think we're gonna do what. A senator will wholeheartedly agree that more money is needed there. So we don't exactly have to discuss that side, but I would like to ask. A senator took a little further into the balance of his income. I see that as a matter of fact, she thinks they're supposed to follow a price. But I'd also like to ask why. A senator as well as the need for them to be sent away to transport or road transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u122	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I think we need to make more market income. We would have had to do it sooner. We have had the opportunity to do so because fuel prices have been low, global prices have been very low, and as a result, we would have had a table before us, and raising the fuel price would not have been a burden. On the other hand, if we today's standards limit the amount of money we have today to place more of these on transportation, we would be less inclined to go to something else. I couldn't talk about cutting down my medical system or at high school or what we're talking about. I may not see a way out of raising my spells to get more money on the system. As I said in my speech, I'd certainly have 80 billion people in debt that I'd like to see new things in other things, especially in all the infrastructure we're facing and not just in the road system. With meaning, I'm a big fan of that subject. I think it's interesting and exciting, and I've looked at meanings when I'm out in countries. We had a conversation about it here, me and what. Svavarsdóttir Since we know the area, we may not be so concerned about what it means to people who are outside. I'd like to get lost in Reykjavík because I don't know that turning into this neighborhood will also lead me to another neighborhood or that I'm late getting to the right lane. It's all about it. Then, of course, there are meanings that have to do with security, such as markings to single bridges. [[The president calls.]] It's all right that I take an extra ring in Reykjavík, I'm not complaining about it, but as for the burnt bridges, we can't drop the dough.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u123	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's interesting. A senator points out that the fuel price has been low, so it would have been easy to increase the amount of income and thus get more money into the system. I have to admit that for my part, I feel very sorry that those groups who have taken the board at the Generals have let this opportunity slip by and that we are stuck with an unconvinced road system. This situation has not even been possible to sustain the roads but to make the roads worse, so there is a need to intervene and place extra funds on them. Of course it has to be earned. I don't think there's gonna be anything to spare, it's like that, it's such a huge interest for all the people of the country, wherever they live. This too is important in professional terms and in all ways. I want to use these last seconds to ask you why. A candidate on the climate and climate goals asks her if she agrees with me in that transportation would have been even more important. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator, because she is a member of a budget board, according to the general practice of these matters. Is there enough work to be done in planning and handling funds to cope with the climate crisis?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u124	A respectable president. Me and what. Clearly, a senator is thinking the same way. At my first question, I had written down some of my cinders on fossil fuels. Rising the costs of fuel for more taxes is also a procedure in climate. It is not necessarily cheap to buy fuel, and we should be doing all we can to change energy and stop burning fossil fuels. But there's never been any tax to collect from this government, it's a little sensitive to it. Like what? A senator said that it would have been so easy to dump taxes on fuel at the same time that world prices are low. It's kind of annoying to have just missed that amount of money. A council proposal was made from the highest level. A professional minister of energy exchange in transportation, which I thought was quite ambitious as long as it works. In fact, all of us have opportunities to drive the country into large quantities and to use energy sources other than fossil fuels. I trust that the government that accepts it will continue to issue it, take it all the way. I feel that ambition has been a bit much of that business. For those who are about to buy a new car, it is important that they know how to think about this in the future, whether they are then, for example. To make a good deal. In terms of whether or not we have considered how this is going to come into the climate and into plans, it's not now, we may be busy with other things, so I can't answer that. I can only say that adding an extra tax on fuel would be a very important and good step toward stopping fossil fuels burning.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u125	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for its introduction in a discussion of the transport program, which is rather flimsy in its redness, to be honest. Therefore, there is a point of working to resolve her during that council, even though that is all there is to do. Hv. A member of the United States made the international flight a subject, and I'm interested in the aspects of our transportation as a regional senator because to me the international flight is built into public transportation. The problem is that internal flights lack a defined role. In fact, we have never really discussed professionally the role of domestic flights, nor is this being done in a transport program, and where to go with that transport. During the past few years, we have been standing in considerable detail about the location of the city of Reykjavík airport, and much of this discussion has been made about the importance of international flights. On the other hand, I've missed coverage on the security show and that people have an open mind discussing alternatives to Reykjavík's airport. Then there are so many reasons to discuss in this context, such as trains. If you're serious about taking the centre of the international flight and moving it, e.g. Together with the Cheflavor airport, it will not fail to discuss how to communicate with the capital. A is not possible in this context without saying B. I just wanted to hear the senator's point of view on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u126	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I couldn't agree more. Senator. I think we often define the international flight just as our train transport. We use the domestic flights as train transport is used in Denmark and other lands, although the international flight is certainly more expensive than trains. When men complain about having the airports in the Watermelon and in the central city, and I can quite understand it, you can tell them that in every middle of the city, there are huge train stations and trains out from them. You can't think of clearing that country, because the idea is to get people into the middle city. You're right. A senator says that there is no forward view of domestic flight. Is the idea that it will be even more new as a means of transportation between national areas and capitals, or is the policy that we move on to a better road and a shorter distance of distances? In the second, the airport is to be taken to Cheflavík and set up a bullet train, the second to speak of building the Watermur Hospital. Then we will likely have to take into account the need for the plane to land as near as the hospital. If they are going to move the airport, we may need to examine only where the high - tech hospital is to be located. There are a lot of things in this and I don't feel like people look at this whole system of things, and some decades into the future. I can't see it. What I'm really encouraging is that we're going to take this conversation, but there's something as if no one knows who's responsible for this. Of course, it's the government every time, that's under the custody of the Minister of Homeland, but I've found that people at Reykjavíkurburg have their opinions on these matters, and so are people in our area. A senator's something to try to catch up with, but no one really knows where he's going. Do the runways just disappear one by one? And then what?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u127	A respectable president. I agree with that. A senator with an absolute vision lacking. There is a lack of overall vision in comparing the transport system with various other plans in our fine community, to form plans for the integration of rural society, plans to put together employment and habitat development areas, plans for the location of the Land Hospital. It all depends on transportation, on making connections available. We also know that the traffic system in Reykjavík and near Reykjavík is on hand. I feel that there has been very little discussion here in the community on train transport as transport resources in the domestic and public transportation sectors in the urban area. Don't you think it's time for us Icelanders to start looking at it more seriously than has ever been? It has often been a saying that everything is so expensive. Do you know how much that's gonna cost? When I mention train transport, people ask. I say no, but has anyone seen it? It may be time for us to do so. It's also a security issue, and I know that why. A senator is the security case in traffic, i.e. losing control of current traffic signals. It is here in the capital city, and it is near the capital, and it is on several major footways because of increasing tourism. It would not be worth it, would it not? A senator would be designed to examine the actual construction of a train system and thus the possibility of losing the weight of traffic here in the capital?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u128	A respectable president. Based on what I have seen in the news, there have always been ideas of a light - reading system in the capital area. I don't know exactly what they're talking about there, but good if it wasn't in the news recently. I may not have observed transportation in the capital with great interest, but I am alert to traffic knots. A senator mentioned. I think we're looking at a light - train system in the capital, and there's always talk about a train between Keflavík and Reykjavík. This would be the first key to moving the international flight to Keflavík if it were very convenient for you to travel to Reykjavík. It is an interesting idea to take this million tourists, or whatever it is, from Cheflavík to Reykjavík by train, as you know everyone else. I would also be very impressed that there was a train between Akureyri and Reykjavík so that I could just sit back on the train. That would be an amazing luxury. One of the worst things about living in Akureyri, and what scares me most is if I know my kids driving on the highway. It makes me feel very uncomfortable because the roads are not safe and it doesn't take much to make an accident, e.g. Because of shark and stuff. So I would be the most beautiful of men if I could get on a train and put my whole family on a train to get in place. However, it is likely that there will be a certain number on each end. Of course, we should be open to these possibilities. In particular, if we are not going to have a train system, we need to weigh how we are going to arrange a flight tunnel into the future. Maybe we should take care of flying subsidies to make transportation more accessible to those who live far away from the capital, as we have only discussed in the conference hall?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u129	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a four - year transport program for 2015◯2018. So cute as it is, we're here to discuss a plan in the middle of the period under which we are under. I'm not going to stay in particular about it. V.E.G. The minister of the inside is now in the hall, and he may be interested in participating in the discussion. If so, I'd be interested to hear from her about the outcome of the case and its payment. As peoples are aware, and the international community is aware, the government has been trying to get some conversations about how we are going to complete Congress. I think it's clear that there must be one of the things we do here at the council, at least. it is important to do so in some way that everyone should walk away in relative peace. We've all, the government side, discussed how late this program is, how badly it rhymes with a government budget, and how low the numbers are at the beginning. Since then, some changes have been added to the changes in most parts and have been proposed by the less part of the environment and transport committee. In other words, the weight is in two parts; in the case of maintenance, we propose 1,500 million. K. Adding to this will be the year 2017, and the same for 2018, with reference to the advice, or direction we have from the Vega type. It shows that in order to maintain the situation, 85.9 billion each year will be needed, but in order to be able to do much better, including work in areas where security is most threatened, 11 billion would be needed each year. In the smaller portion, we here suggest that each year's results in maintenance will be 9.5 billion, but the greater portion had already contributed a further 1 billion, resulting in an increase from 7 billion to 8 billion each year. The other fundamental factor, a number that changes considerably, is the strength for public transport. I don't need to have any speeches on how important that factor is, especially in regard to transport practices and increasing public opportunities to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by changing the way they travel. This may be most important here in the capital area, which could indeed affect transport emissions of greenhouse gases. Of course, the debridement that became available for public transport in the country during the last term has greatly changed the quality of life and the prospects of people abroad. I'd love to hear it in the highest. A minister about it if she intervening in the discussion here at some point, how, and if she saw in her mind that we could agree that the Council would be united in this change proposal in addition to the ones that come from the greater part. There is absolutely no question that it will be the project of a new council and a new government, a new financial minister, who will submit a bill to finance soon after the election, to bring this strategy to its end. Therefore, my opinion is that it would be greatly strengthened if behind it there was a parapolitic support at the end of the current assembly and a terms period. I would also like to mention other things that I did not spend much time in my first talk about this group of subjects, which is about the interaction of health and transportation. Much emphasis has been placed on health care now on the promotion of elections, and not on unforeseeable. There has been a huge problem in many of the health systems; pots are broken in many places. We have experienced medical professions, difficulties with design, extreme difficulties with regard to housing of the Land Hospital, conflicts with location even in the government, and complex facilities with regard to the funding of health institutions in the country, the difficult health care facilities here in Reykjavík, etc. In addition to this discussion, the discussion of the high cost of traffic accidents has been discussed. Of course, we face the fact that by growing foreign tourists - and then I'm not talking about the sort of cost that will never be appreciated in crowns and pennies, but I'm much more likely to talk about what gets in our interior as a result of the number of serious traffic accidents that have occurred here as part of the pressures on the infrastructure as a result of the increasing number of tourists. We must resist these accidents, and we are not to accept anything less than that they will be none, that we remove them from our traffic culture, as it were. According to the latest estimates of the cost of road accidents, the numbers are the result of death accidents or any serious accident involving hundreds of millions of dollars. Last year, in 2015, 16 deaths occurred in Iceland. Of these, there were five foreign tourists, making nearly 16% of the people who died on the road. We have seen during the discussion that there are tremendous shortness of breath in certain areas in these areas, perhaps especially in the southwest corner, or in areas under the most stressful circumstances of tourists. It's the Field, the Golden Circle, and so on. where the infrastructure and the traffic workers hardly carry the pressures they find in it. In addition, we are talking about very strong reactions and pleas for security, physical transportation, law enforcement, and health care, etc. in this area. It all plays together, and unfortunately it is, so last year more than one dollar was put in a traffic safety program. I think it must be most reprehensible in this context that we do not take this security factor to the level, to the level of education, to the interaction with other social infrastructures, which are the factors that I have been counting here and traced. A respectable president. This is, of course, a group of paintings that we do not include short speeches at the General Assembly, but it was these two things that I specifically wanted to kill on here, which is how we can handle the transport program so that this council is wasted, and then neglecting sins in terms of traffic security and other overall security issues, consistent with other aspects of the community that are under considerable pressure because of the growth of foreign tourists and are certainly to be reflected in the payment of the case here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to touch one point in her language, which is the interaction of the much - increasing number of tourists you see. It is quite interesting to face the fact that in this long - term program, it is not to see what is taking place in the growth of tourists or to look to another plan. We know that the growth in the number of tourists and continued growth in their arrival in the country will affect traffic safety and the ability to operate a variety of transport workers. For example, I don't think anyone really considered the potential for business now in the light of changing positions on beach cruises, which in itself are a very desirable means of transportation and would be very desirable for us to transport products more by ship than we do on the highway system. I was reading a very interesting article by Róbert Guðmundsson, an entrepreneur at Sigludar, calling for a new international airport in Hassahuun and international airport. These voices are getting louder in the country, which so far may have been guards of the same condition, wanting to have the airport in the Hydromycin, etc. Because people are realizing that the realities we live in have changed completely. Of course, this is a big part of how we're supposed to build up our transport system for a longer time, but we're not doing it in this program. I'd like to hear a response. The senator of my meditation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u131	President. Indeed, it is true. A senator points out, the debate over the international flight is in a lot of dough. The traditional poles, which have not necessarily been large on the depth, are in my opinion of retreat. We hear voices that have their origins in the midst of a much more powerful tourist service that are beginning to point out the obvious, that while the gate enters the country is only in one place, we are actually creating a total excessive pressure on the southwest corner. When people stop here for a relatively short time, they do not set foot in order to go north and east or west. The opening that would be created by having the domestic flight along the way from the international airport would be to strengthen the settlements across the country and perhaps be one of the strongest structural measures we could take as soon as we would be releasing a valuable building in the Hydromese and thus contributeing to dense development of the capital area, which is also an enormously important step in strengthening and strengthening our capital, I do not talk about reducing greenhouse gas emissions because of our being here with a more dense and more powerful living place where people could live every day, with a lot more chance of practicing others than this traditional car. People could walk, cycle, and ride with their own streets. What I see in that too is that we would have a stronger capital in the rivalry with the northern capital, which is the situation of our young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u132	A respectable president. This, of course, is the case, it comes on the day, when people start looking at this picture, that the interests of very many urban areas in the country would be a very well - paying city, especially in a business way, by having a link between international airports and national airports, so here they could be tourists who wouldn't stop at the southwestern corner, but just landed at the airport at the Hafuna and flew to the Western Islands, Refur, Lagilur, Akureyri, Icerafjörður. It would reduce the pressure here on the southwest corner. It's a memorable thing to have now for about Two, three years of hearing voices from the Western Islands, when tourists began to grow very much in the South, but while being shut off by shipping in the Pacific, they did not return tourists to the island of Eyjar. They were just in total lack of communication, and people were not counting on traveling for three, four hours. At the same time, there have been voices on both the Islanders and the Cape of the Hornfjord, where people have wanted to change the airports in the international airport or have the ability to take over jets directly. Of course, it would be normal for this to be done only at the same airport, that there would be a new airport on international and domestic flights. That's what we have to do, and we need to think for a long time and be in the big picture. There are plans, but now we are in this four - year transport program, which, of course, is two years back in time and that, of course, says everything that needs to be said about the priorities of present governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u133	President. This is an interesting discussion because it is certainly one of the greatest challenges we face that more parts of the country will be allowed to enjoy the injections of tourists growing. Then we'd be talking about going abroad for a whole year. We now see that in the most distant part of Reykjavík, we still have a third or a quarter, of the year in which we are operating more intensive travel services. Then we'd be talking about full-time travel, then we'd be talking about jobs, and then we'd be talking about a thousand codfish on the assembly line in this sense, which would be going into more settlements than just here in the capital area. Perhaps it makes much more sense, rather than discussing individual arrangements for the maintenance cost or such, to place it in the long - term vision that there is a real possibility that the international flight will follow the international plane with a plane like that in the Washing Land. I'd also like to say that the Washingoff Airport is a good option for us on our own. It is located largely centrally in the capital area. If we're looking at some distances, we're 15 minutes away from Whalesun in the mall, but we may be ten minutes from the Rady Lord at the mall. These are not the kind of distances people usually think about. I repeat, because there is an enormous cost of all of this, there is a considerable amount of value in the land of the Hydromese that floats along with all of this. I have no doubt that this is where we are changing this discussion into that it is no longer a matter of polarity between capital and national but, rather, of all of us, of our common interests. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u134	V.E.G. President. We're here for a second round. of the Parliamentary Directive, a four-year transport plan, a strategy for the 2015/2018 project. The basis is that most of the cases are mentioned. Environmental and transport committees, as well as the opinion of less parts, as well as the change of both forms. I don't have a seat. The environment and transport committee but have, because it's a big and important matter, and it's following the discussion, and it's not just important, it's very informative. There is an agreement between those who have spoken up, whether as part of a major part or as part of a smaller section, as well as with a greater and lower percentage of cohesion. Named. I'd like to be the first thing to say with a little bit of what it is. Environment and Transport Committee: It has not been successful in recent legislation programmes to agree to the four-year strategy we are discussing and has not been in force for a transport programme as stated in the European Commission's European Commission on-going activities in 2 mg. Section 3. Their law. I'm sorry when we talk about plans that are so important, and in line with the 12-year plan, which is the dating part of the plan, and the strategy we're discussing here. The long - term, policy - making plan, now in force, leads Generalis to 12 - year - old, which was approved on June 19, 2012, for 2011◯022. Concomitant protocols were adopted for 2011-2014, i.e. Four-year plan. How sad! I agree with both the majority and the smaller parts that have been discussed. Councilmen who've established this mission. It is quite serious that from 2014 up until now, there has been no implementation of a adopted program that has been paid by the General Assembly. Let's hope we clean it up. It's also important that we discuss our basic systems and agree with our plans and financial contributions to them, that the elected representatives will be involved. Here, too, is an inconsistencies between the state financial programme. A few of them. Senators have discussed this. It goes into effect before 2017,2021, on the basis of government financial legislation and the program we are discussing here. It is not exactly a sum of money, but at the same time, the importance of the estimates presented on the basis of government economic policies as presented here can be summed up in the importance of all equality and always to make policy. This is not a large amount of money in the context of the parts, it has been reported, about 3 billion, but it is likely to be fixed when a national financial programme is updated. Then I'd like to mention and specify with a positive sign that more is being made up of transport funds from the last council's discussion of more than 12 billion changes, if I read just from the number, more dignified president. Transport is a very important matter to us, as is so many of us. Councilmen have established and are well - toed up in committee views. A wide variety of options are needed to maintain normal traffic due to habitat conditions, transport, employment and basic services. At that time, transport is one of the key services that make up a business core in tourism, as well as the hosting and all that goes with it. The growing number of tourists adds to the pressures of all transport and transportation. Air travel is increasing, shipping and ferrying, and particularly the pressures on the road with increasing heavy traffic. This increase in traffic weight then comes on top of the growing need for maintenance and building up that has developed over the years. That's a story we know well. However, we need to deal with the project and plan it well, and so a plan such as we discuss here is even more important that we see how we work for the combined need for maintenance and repair, as well as additional investments and innovations in transport. It is expressed in the reviews and comments of the day. Councilmen, some of whom are at ease. The Environment and Transport Committee, that this plan is funded with regard to these needs. Hopefully, in the years to come, we will be able to improve the quality of our transport efforts slowly. When we discuss the transport system, many factors have been developed. On page 18. 2 of my committee list says, with permission of the president: ▪ The main part considers it important to make transport planning important to the level of knowledge and appreciation for experts in the field and to try to avoid random decisions. I think there's a reason to record this sentence, because it's a very complex and important matter, affecting a great many of the community in which I came in, affects a home and a job structure. So it will always be difficult to insist on funding and who is needed and what to aim for. I've been trying to read a cross-check of both the council error proposal, which contains this strategy, the 12-year plan, and so on. It presents this routine comparison with annual value generation, gross domestic product. And it's bigger and more economic growth, and we need to work together on what is practical and the criteria for who the need is. That is, I think I may claim, a cumulative need to maintain road maintenance. I think it's easy to agree with. There has been an increase in power in the arrival of tourists, and pressures on the road have increased. It has also been observed here and in figures of road accidents, so, of course, clues can be drawn from here and there. I think it's very important in this light, when we review our plans, plan of action, that this will be taken into account. I miss not being able to get a better grip on this in one place, all those criteria and what the cost of financing is. I often feel that we are dealing with this, here at the Parliament and beyond, on very low terms, when it comes to speaking in these matters. We've been talking about traffic security. It's not that unforeseeable, it's not for no reason. If I tap out the words that appear in the panel of parts and turn to the traffic security issues, the rest of the section will tell you, in a specific chapter on page 5. 4, that he feels very positive that plans are now being made for several of the largest traffic roads in the country. It is stated that they will be completed as soon as possible, with a lot of safety factors separating road transport policy on multiple roads. In this regard, there will be implementations in the construction of the West Coast of Kjalarnes, which will begin in 2018 and will be continued by the double-flash of Smoke, but in the first stage of that task, there will be a conflicting tournament at Cysuvik Road, often over and over again the importance of speed and completion of its implementation. There are a number of other projects on the schedule and in the opinion of the greater part, such as the erosion of rotation between the Whosus and Selephos. I read so, as if I entered my first speech, a respectable president, that in terms of more and less things, there is a full harmony as well as the intervening order. Councilmen here have spoken of taking good care of national security and security, not only where traffic flows are getting heavier but also in many parts of the country. There has also been reports of safety when it comes to the reduction of single bridges, I can join in with everyone. Parliaments to whom it has discussed and transport to a traffic station, such as the air station. It refers to the chapter from Fitum to the terminal and to the tunnel. General transportation is natural for us. They are important when it comes to saving funds and reducing pollution, all that is involved. The lower part stresses the speed at which fossil fuels are used in transport reduction and increasing the use of renewable energy, focusing on a variety of transport processes and the importance of promoting public transport, taking into account the infrastructure of walking and rolling road users. I'd like to cut this out from my committee party part of it because it may be a better thing to do on that side, but in some part of the committee's list. It is also based on urban lines, speed lines, and light - reading systems in which all such projects and plans support the future result in climate change and its objectives. We have just validated the Paris Summit and have a declared aim to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, it is important to look into, and it is observed by the majority of the area, the equalisation of the residence conditions. I agree with a majority of the committees that underscore the importance of being placed in the same form in the present location, thus ensuring the availability of all the people of the country to the capital area and the public service given there. A respectable president. I took a letter that was sent to all members of the Parliament, and I am a member of the East, who is concerned about transport reform in his community. I'm going to quote that letter, by permission of the president, which says: ▪ An internal flight is inhibited by the area of the country that attends services and recreation to the capital. Large settlements and parts of the country suffer expensive domestic flights that make the regions competitive for people and businesses. Thus, it stands in the way of growth, which, in addition to increased service, makes the settlement weaker and weaker. I think we can think of every word when it comes to the importance of domestic flight as a public transportation. And he also says: ▪ Every country has a right to the service we've all built up in the capital of the country. Then it must also be the role of the official to match it as possible. But besides the Land Hospital and most of the expert services there are, we also own national theaters, Hörp, Symphony Orchestra, National Museum, National Library, High School and College, to mention something, not to mention all the administrations of the country. There is also the worth of a tens of billions of airports built up, and those closest to them can reach most places in the world with a straight flight for similar purposes and even a much lower price to fly within the country. They signed those members who sent this letter to us, a respectable president, formed a moneybook group, which they call "labby international flight, " your experience. I just want to reiterate here that this is very compatible with what appears to be in, I say, considered a greater part and a smaller part of it a little. Environment and Transport Committee, I wanted to draw it out here. When we discuss such a large matter as the transport process, time goes by very fast. Company representatives and part-part parties attended a meeting of the Committee and are named in the opinion of the greater part. I'd like to snoop around a few things. In addition to the discrepancy of Cyrúsavík Road, mentioned earlier in my speech, I welcome the emphasis of the greater part, i.e. to 300 million. K. will be spent in the process of completing the King's Way and that in 2017, the important safety issue due to the large tourist stream around the road, as well as to which the road plays an important role as a spare route to Reykjavík, when two Western roads about Kjalarnes begin in 2018. I would like to mention the importance of performance at Eaglenes Road and read the conclusions of the Kopavog town council sent to all members of the capital area. It is published on a web as a transponder. The Environment and Transport Committee, and then it reads, with permission of the President: ▪ The Council of Copavogs insists on the transport authorities to complete Eagle Road construction on the first. The first stage of the task is now nearing its completion, but by no means will the end of the second phase be a direct link to the Breedholt Way. In view of traffic security and distance short distances, transport activities in the capital area are the most urgent. It is unacceptable that in accordance with the existing transport programme 20153/42/2018 it is not expected to complete this project and reduce the town council at the Council to put the latter part of Eaglenes Road into a transport programme. I can say every word here. During the last winter, chaos developed there during major traffic times, and as snow spread over the winter winter, conditions are even worse, and heavy stress and traffic congestion are occurring. I just wanted to make this point and believe that this will be done in the strategy we're looking at. Here's some adjustment motion from what? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, who turns to a new campaign between the Western Islands and the land island. I think it's good to be looking for a future solution along with projects in the land of the country so that transportation can be maintained between the island and the country. A respectable president. Finally, I will make my wish and hope that this proposal will be carried out and will be adopted, this important plan, before the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u135	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson for his speech, in which the nature of a case was presented in many areas at the end of a road program. I'd like to commend you. A senator for not only referred to the committee's opinion but also to a greater part of the problem. Environmental and transport committees, and in the context of my opinion. A church committee where he felt it was necessary to do so. I thought that I would imitate such behavior and not go to one of the more traditional categories in terms of most and less of the political parties here at the council and be fond of hearing. that he spoke of the importance of reaching the climate goals. I wholeheartedly agree that this is important, and in fact, it becomes our major role in the 21st century. I'd like to be here in my previous objection to ask what. A senator to the market of income, which in the opinion of the greater part, points out that credits have not been raised in terms of prices. I want to ask you why. A senator sees it for him. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator feel that his income should be strictly restricted to transportation?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u136	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for her questions. First, I want to say that I felt that there was a certain harmony in the matter. Employees, w. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, who was prominent in minor opinion. The Environment and Transport Committee, and the head of more parts and the head of the Committee, respectively. paritaprevir Fear of Höskuldur, son of Þórhallsson. I don't have a seat. The Environment and Transport Committee has not been part of the whole process of hosting visitors and simultaneously covering headlines, as is customary work practices on committees and on large issues. Thus, I feel that it is important not only to participate in the discussion but also to listen to viewpoints but also to try to speed things up by going both sides in the same direction. I thought that there were some very positive and positive things in both opinions and statements here that it is a great harmony and a desire to finish this matter. In terms of my money markets, I have to answer it, in effect, because of my feelings. I think it's normal for them to have merits, and if we're working on market income, which I generally think we should keep as little as possible in our system, they should go where they're directed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u137	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for clear and clear answers. I agree with what. A senator who has been a member of a number of consistent issues in the transport agenda. I have never heard any objections as to the need to put extra money into a transport program. Change created more than one piece. The Environment and Transport Committee gives a clear witness and takes a smaller part of the Committee as early as the first sentence in its committee that he declares support for these changes. As you can see on page 19. 2 of the Committee's Committee saw the committee meeting that the representatives of the Roadmaker feel that they need even more funding in the plan than are proposed by a greater proportion of the committees. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of the Parliament whether he will support the process suggested by the less part of the committee, i.e. to add even more money to the maintenance of the road system. Of course, there are other adjustments, but I especially want to hear them. A senator with the help to the maintenance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u138	V.E.G. President. I'll thank you later for the answer. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir. First, I want to say that I agree so deeply with that point, and in my speech I suggested that we let the experts tell us what it takes to do. This is shown in the Senate arrangement for self - responsibility. The road is certainly responsible for factors in a road safety programme. Of course, because there has been much in the discussion, there is a situation and maintenance of the road. If I haven't completely lost myself in these numbers, then this is about 11 billion if we're just going to stay gone. If we take both the change options and the smaller parts, it has been extended up to 8 to 9 billion. If there are 2 billion missing, it must be the goal of adding the 2 billion if we are to meet the demands and wishes of the experts. In terms of both the greater and the lesser parts of the committee, the safety of traffic is high as well as the safety of most people. Senators here. It turns to the road system, to the vehicles, and especially to road users. This is the responsibility of the road model in the implementation program. Of course, we should listen to the experts in that field.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u139	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson for an excellent talk, in which he came to an end in many parts of the world just enough to talk about the transportation program, or what this is now well - said, a transport project program. I share his opinion and in the council itself in a number of things outlined in this project program. There seems to be some harmony between greater and smaller things, but of course there are different priorities. All of us agree that the road system needs much more money just to keep disappearing, we are not even talking about preparing for the increase we see in traffic. Aside from the number of tourists we can see and anticipate in all our programmes, we expect the number of people in the capital area to increase about 70,000 people in the following years. The number of people living on the southwestern corner of the country or in the capital area is some 70,000. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson was glad to have a better or double highway in Kjalarnes. What I want to ask you is why. A senator, and now I speak to him as a senator in the Southwestern district: Doesn't the senator worry that the catacomb is totally taken out of the part's work plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u140	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator named Guðjónsdóttir Margrét for her question and answer. We share the view that there is a need for more money in the road system. Hv. A senator over both the empires in a number of tourists, I also came into my speech, and population growth in this area. I was here above the opinion of the greater part of the double highway of Kjalarnes. I'll admit I have to answer a question. The senator's yes. Yeah, I totally share her concerns about the Sun path. This is as safe as transport in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u141	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear we're doing what we're doing. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson is concerned about these matters, for this certainly means something extraordinary not just to the people of the capital, but to the whole country. Whatever the case is about the airport discussion, and there's a discussion I'm going to take in my speech after or after this morning or whenever it will be, however, that the 2 million tourists who come to this country now and all those who live here in this country will, on the other hand, travel with cars more and more. It's just a reality we have to face. I think it is a direct insult to the population of Mosfellstown and rural areas in the northern capital area to receive all the tremendous traffic going through this area. I think it's a very safe matter. Of course, this is also environmental. This is shown in the transport program by which the Sunway is taken out of the program because it is not a means of searching for it on its own. Now I want to mention another phenomenon that we may not be able to discuss right now, to what? paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, the city line. It presents the possibility of it and looks for examples abroad to link states, rural areas, and private people to financing. Of course, it is the discussion that has often taken place in the case of Sunwater. But there is a lot of concern that the runway is taken out, and I hope it is. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson is going to join me and others who are concerned with the situation that the Road of Sun will be reinvested because it is totally preprogrammed to take it out of a plan that is due to be set up until 2018. [[The president calls.]] It can't happen. [[The president calls.]] This is a security matter, and this is an environment, and this is a big interest to all people living in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u142	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you especially why. paritaprevir Guðjónsdóttir Margrét, the God - given daughter of drawing this out, is more likely to feel ashamed that I had forgotten to mention this huge transport here in the capital area. I can say every word I have. A senator said of this vital project. In view of all that has been discussed in the discussion about the growth of tourists and the road routes that add weight to the road system and transport into and out of the capital and the capital area and across the country, I can say every word. A senator said. This is also environmental because we were discussing a noble target for greenhouse gas emissions, this is a huge environment. There may be a special discussion on how we are going to finance this project and whether direct donations and tax contributions can be mixed and some kind of private property. It will always be a high political discussion, but at the end, I'm going to cover my thanks for it. A senator for adding this to my speech. Of course, while there was much to go on in this big business, transportation, the waterway is one of the most advanced transport issues in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u143	Madam President. I was so happy when I saw the highest. The Minister of the Interior Church is arriving for about a moment and a half ago, but unfortunately it is the highest. Ministers return, and so do... [[Up front.]] Well, God will let us know if she's around here, and so was the chairman of a transport committee that has been so seen from time to time. You see, I have one specific direct question for one or both of them. So, as I was sitting in a special committee that Akureyri took the initiative to set up the problem of the Gímur Islands, there has been a number of problems in the area. A committee was made up of representatives of the town, the graffiti, the members of the council, the bank and other members that came and produced an excellent proposal that then took the government about about a year to look at before they made them on the main factors unchanged, such as stipulation of certain solidifying materials to Gímney, who have blessed themselves and have been greatly helped to negotiate their debts, etc. However, it was one small thing that the Minister of the State or the Government was supposed to do in this package, which is as I say, to be at least six months old since the committee returned in the spring of 2015, which was to improve transportation to the island. In fact, both were considered there for assessment, flight, and ferry cruises. The situation is that monsters actually live in the fiercest of all the islands, i.e. Both the poorest or the least frequency, and it's the most expensive for the people of the Giorese. This almost 100 - man society in the Arctic Circle may be put to death by paying a very high price on a ferry, which, of course, must walk only two or three times a week and/or very expensive flight expenses, though it is, indeed, Kingdom strength. Still, there is quite an additional cost to obtaining services, medical services, and many more that such a small community will have to do where only minimal services are available. So it was directed to the government, and I don't know any better than the government approved the Commission's proposal and made it a time, to improve the Sautilists' plan, to increase the frequency to four to a minimum, to five trips a week, and to arrange that the last trip on Friday would not be until after four o'clock so that boats could generally get their fresh on the market before the weekend, but would not have to keep it past the weekend with the expected price. I don't understand how it would take a whole government to be high for two years to get these things started from the time the committee gave its proposal in May 2015 and until the government finally got this thing off in the late year. Now that we're far into 2016, there's no sign of any action on these materials. Nothing. True, it is said that the Nautilus programme is to be offered out, so the question is, Is the meaning that this increase in frequency and money is intended for this in a transport program? And will this happen now at the latest at the end of the year or so? I don't think there's any reason to hover any longer over this case, not bigger than it is. Of course, in my first speech, I reviewed how sad it has been for the past three years to get a grip on at least started in the process of working out the relax that has formed in the maintenance and rebuilding of the road system. I think that all of us can agree that there may not be much else to do, but to tear down some sails in that regard during the most difficult years after the crash, and not quite easy to justify additional business on the state funds while he was still under zero by such investments. However, in 2012 we were going to do so in the schedule that was then set up, making a special contribution to additional fishing costs and making money from banks. At that time, an injection was started on road functions, on maintenance, and network roads, starting a number of major projects, such as North Land Marches, and putting money in Hertlf, to be carried out in the Westfjords, and so on. It never occurred to me that with a better state of state from year to year, a government fund equaled to our current government in 2013 and then improved the supply from year to year, they would only keep the sea for three years. But that is what was done and hardly even done. Because in 2014, one of the worst years of all is 10 years when we take what is going on in transport as a share of GDP. The first year that the government alone and as a whole responsibility for transport funds, this ratio went down, which will be our discussion with funding in November/December 2013, when it was pointed out. This is particularly sad because the need is screaming, and everyone really agrees on it. We've got a distress call coming from all sides. The road has not been secretive, nor should it. It's her professional opinion that we've come to an extremely dangerous situation. This is to be directly damaged because the roads are breaking down and the ability to bear is to disappear. It is well - known that as the target is maintained, the barrier is weakened, the road breaks, and the damage caused by such neglect is becoming additional and will later cost much more. The roads are about to reach waves, etc., so roads that would have better maintenance can last fairly for 10, 20 years, they may become virtually devastated, and this calls for their marvelous and animal rebuilding much sooner. This trend is increasing because of the degree of heavy transport on the roads. All of this we know. In addition, when traffic is taking off the plane as expected, there is an increase in economic growth and better profit for people in the country and a large - growing number of tourists traveling much in the roads of their own cars, this is in no way at all. We have lost precious time. It's been three wasted years running this government. Of course, it's better than nothing that they say 15 minutes to 12 when the spirit is removing from the government's nose that it's right to add only with change proposals, but it's a little late, including. because, also, it was particularly beneficial to perform in 2013 in the year and even into this year, but now the work market has become more complex, and expense schemes have not always come up when it comes to tenders, because men are offering higher levels. All of this and much more could be mentioned. A respectable president. This adds to the tragic performance of the government in general in national affairs. She's a disaster. It is quite simply so that this government, by some inimportant mismanagement of all the previous election period, was unable to control itself, forwards and independents, had become so furiously in opposition to government during the last term, convinced themselves so thoroughly that it must all be so stupid as the Jóhanna government, and Steingrímur was doing that it would be natural enough to strike it all over at the time of power, the geniuses after the waffle in the spring of 2013. They killed a schedule. They put out their investment plans and did many more very unwise things. The programs were well selected, and they were supported by transnational government officials, and the general pleasure of setting up an increase of money in that direction and setting priorities for the local people and choosing the projects. But, of course, it is not worth the effort to get people together in whole parts of the country, letting them have priorities if there is no money left to do so. That's what the government decided, to cut it down on Trog. Why? Because this would not be a pleasure in the areas? Yes, it was. Because the projects were not enough? Yes, they are. Because it wouldn't be an opportunity to use the money? Yes, it is. No, it was because the first government had done it. The investment scheme was cut down in part during the first year of 2013, e.g. A thing like a local living room that was supposed to start that year was thrown out. And nothing replaced a void for three years, just keeping seawater in these materials. We know each other, for example. the failure of investments in tourism infrastructure. So, unfortunately, it isn't. It would be better right now if it were only the roads, the transportation, that the government would have done badly, but, unfortunately, that is not the case. [[The president calls.]] It has, in general, been very disastrous in the affairs of the country and is actually in the commercial and geographic context.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u144	A respectable president. I'd like to talk to you for a second. A senator of what he came on about maintaining the investments that have already been made. It was shown in the matter of the Road Building for the Committee that to maintain the roads without their going down, they had begun to collapse, that this would have to be a maintenance only to keep the lost 8 999 billion. A person can be expected to be closer to the upper limit in this, rather than the other. On the other hand, if people were going to take the roads somewhere in the future, i.e. As a result of this growing pressures, they are being uplifted, improved, and improved by improvements in security. A senator mentioned, it would have to be about 11 billion each year. We see that this year 6 billion are being set, the transport program accounts for 7 billion next year and the next year. The majority of the committee suggested a suggestion that we in the smaller section support the rise to 8 billion but remain in the lower limit. So in the smaller parts, we add it up to 9.5 billion so we can at least Start taking the first steps into the updates on the roads. I'd like to ask you what. A senator with great knowledge of this class: For how long can it be possible to subsidize the maintenance program, i.e. How long can humans continue on the path to subsidies only the general maintenance of these investments? And how much expense is there to wonder about the future this will probably call on, i.e. Even larger projects later if we start talking about ruined roads, not just roads that need maintenance? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u145	Madam President. I don't know what to say. There are various guidelines used in these areas, e.g. as in the case of a cut-off. It was generally said that it would be desirable to be able to renew it, to run over it again every six to eight years, to this general wear of broken oil, which we know on the road, other than the asphalt. In recent years, people have taken steps to extend it to nine or eleven years. Of course, people are taking a pretty big chance that this will be completely ruined, and then what I was saying comes to pass, that the underlying pressure under the road could become more damaged, and it will be so hard on men later on with bills. The same is true in itself about the malarways, holding many of them so tragic; it has not been won and run out, the finest layer on top of dirt roads, in some places for decades. They haven't seen that in ten, fifteen years in some places. In that case, almost everything has gone off the road. There's nothing to lift up the spring and cover up again. The rock begins to cross the road. And what have humans done? They have used yellow paint to paint a major joke coming up from the road so that drivers can avoid it. This has been done during the years both in Isafjörg and e.g. Where I come from on the Brenhagen, just bring a bucket with yellow paint and the stones painted. That's what it's all about. I drove the entire Valley of Bárda on Sunday. It's terrible to see the roads there. If the road had 10, 11 billion a year from playing in the maintenance, there are also some possibilities for it, as it has sometimes done, perhaps to collect some provisions, and to take permanent action on some butts. In fact, she has often been in a kind of maintenance new building while reasonably enough so that she does not always have to deal with the same bad chapters year after year. This hunger causes so much damage, and it limits the ability of the road to straighten things out in some flexible way that it in itself is a problem. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u146	A respectable president. You see, that's what I think it's about, i.e. if you neglect to do so, you will be making much more cost later. You'd think we'd agree on the contrary, trying at least having enough money for maintenance, even if only to keep the disappearing. Then it is simply so that it is our duty to make up the section that may be most needed because of the added pressures of travel. Therefore, it is my hope that those members of the board who own this are willing to accompany us to accept our proposal of 1.5 billion more, we have the right to do this, to make sure that we are at least at least able to maintain the investments that we have already made and can begin to take the first steps to update the necessary aspects, so that I now take advantage of the opportunity and encourage people to look seriously at our adjustments. I think it's very important for us to do this right now and not let any more years pass as we're just subsidizing, that's unreasonable for a long time. Then I will say one thing for a moment, though the time may fly away from me at the right time. A senator. What has troubled me a little, has been on a transport committee during this terms for the first time as a senator, is what all of this seems to be a little random events, if we take, for example. Smoke track. This turnout we see now requires an attack from Fitum to an air base, why, for example, was there a problem? has not shown us the authorities that this is a particularly stressful chapter and is of some kind of risk list by the authorities? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We've got more courses like this. I don't think we're organized enough, and we don't have enough effort to sort out the pressures, based development, job development, construction of the road system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u147	Madam President. I think there has been increased significance recently to look both to the safety, to the most dangerous sections of the road system, and, of course, to trigger such a more intensive structure and to the forward future from the capital area in all directions. Of course, it's a pleasure to see a spark headed east of Selephos, and then we'll have to finish the link from Southes, and then we'll be off to City Fun, etc. But, in my opinion, it's time to plan immediately, e.g. Coming between Reykjavík and Akureyri. You need to consider when and how a separate vehicle will be placed there, as an ugly accident will also happen. In general, if we neglect renewal and maintenance of the infrastructure, it will catch up with us. Of course, that is nothing more than a debt to the future. The future is about to be made up of a debt. Hence, it is not wise to do anything, especially if it causes bone damage. It's not like that. What I'm most incomprehensible of all of this, and maybe I'll enjoy it if it's the best. The Minister of the Interior House is able to express himself, and we will go out and buy flowers if a minister came to the platform sometime. [[The point is to listen...]] Good. Why didn't the market of road income stocks come up for prices, so I don't talk about the time the fuel price went into the world's labor market so that no one would have noticed it? Salaries on gasoline and oil would only have dropped a little less, a few dollars less than it has done for these more, tens more, if they had set up some ups on the markets. It's reported that we would have a hundred and twenty-eight billion dollars. More play-offs today on a yearly basis. So collection is the loss for the roads, probably 14, 16 billion dollars. How is it that this neglect, this neglect, took place in the time of that government, which makes no mistakes in its own words? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u148	Madam President. I'm just going to come into this discussion, although it's rarely a pleasure to discuss something as important as a transport plan at night, and most people are likely to watch evening news, Cast light, or something like that. There's been a lot of talk here, but there's a few things that we need to consider. As I am quick to speak, the neglect that has taken place since the government began to rule has led to, as was rightly said, the future being referred to as enormous sums of money. When I'm at the highest. The secretary of finance has said it's better to pay off debt and it's very necessary, and I think we can all agree with it, then the priority is just that, but not to do things at the same time. It also takes not to have decided on the transportation system. This requires a lot of money, it is clear, and we are faced with it today. I think it was a mistake to go this way and do it the way it has been done here. Also, I've talked a lot about Vega, about Vega's situation, and what has been called negative on my own money, and this was being mentioned, perhaps in the long term, since market income has not paid off. Then there is this debt for the years and always a question of how to figure it out. The greater part of the study shows that it needs to be done, but it has not been resolved whether it will be done now. Actually, I haven't read the last law, so I don't know if there's any suggestion on it. But at least I'll suggest it when they come for release. I believe that what is stated on page is wrong. 4 in the majority opinion, since transport contributions have never been lower after the collapse of the financial system in 2008 than the previous years. This is well illustrated by the overview of the smaller portion, which shows that 2009 and 2009 are more than 2007, and 2010 is similar to gross domestic product and 2007. So it may not be quite right. Of course it smells because there's an election coming. All of us agree that the extra funds are needed on the road, but they've somehow gone only now to get into the money. It did not work when the minister submitted his plan, saying that she could stand by but did not rely on herself to do more. But now as I say, 15 minutes of election, there is a considerable addition of the good in my opinion, but it smells like an election coming. I'll have to agree with the proposals of the smaller section where it's suggested to be improved, and I hope that before this is done, there will be an agreement to make those adjustments. In view of the greater part, it is considered to be an underdevelopment, despite the added addition to the majority and the smaller part is actually adding to 2.5 billion, so this is necessary for maintenance. That's one of the things I personally think are essential for us to agree with this plan. One of the suggestions related to my district is that the road over Axi will follow immediately on the ground floor. It's been on schedule for a really long time and it's always somehow set back. I think it's time for this project, as it has been shown in the summer, that there's a lot more traffic there than over three other similar roads together. I think that's all there is to support the need for this project. An accident did not happen long ago, as any may know, which may be even more supportive that with increasing travel and increased traffic there, this project needs to be completed. I'd like to correct one thing here in the opinion where tunnels are being covered. It says, by permission of the President: A study conducted at the University of Akureyri and the University of Iceland, which examined the sex status before and after opening Seyn Farm March... Of course, it refers to the Holy Wall tunnel, and it's likely to have to be adjusted. It is a fact that when we have at times been discussing the importance of walking - these tunnels were not considered to be very necessary, but they have been of enormous importance to the sector, the structure, and the development of the tunnel. It was even here. discussed today that all the subsequent business actually happens just because the tunnel becomes reality. That, on its own, matters. That's why I think we're going to have to stand tight on both animal tunnels and the South Strait tunnel. Actually, there's supposed to be a tunnel going on all the time. I think that's one of the reasons why this place can be inhabited. Just where I live is a four-way tunnel, but we need one more because the road that has been called the public and the River has been going down for decades. In fact, it is only a matter of time before that road goes into the sea, and it is very important that it penetrates the map so that it becomes in line. I spent my earlier time discussing air travel primarily because I consider them important and view them as part of public transportation, but I am not going to take them for now, but I am putting first emphasis on the dangerous places and the dangerous ways, as well as therduousness of the Berfjörður, and not to finish the school course. It's a safety issue as well as completing the ring road. Action on the Valley of Peace is also named as part of what is to be considered. But they may be throwing money on the long-term program, somehow putting many jobs on top of them, and showing them without having to experiment in the next few years to finish them or put enough money into them. Of course, I have to be happy to contribute to the construction of Skardd's Road in the Valley of Skard. And as I said before, a wormbiography of the Beerfjörður, and the city soil and other things that are underneath and that are part of my district. Of course, there have been considerable projects that have made much difference to the community. As we have discussed, we need to distribute tourists with confidence. The pressures on the roads are, in particular, an enormous amount of heavy transport has moved up into the country. That, in addition to having bad roads and a lot of foreign tourists who have never driven on such roads as the country offers, of course, is subject to security matters that have only been mentioned and presented in the opinion of the greater part, to my mind where security is being discussed. At any rate, the cost of road accidents in 2009 is some 48 billion in 2015, according to university research projects and the direct health - related costs in 2009 were 930 million on current prices. All of this argues that insufficient funds have not been placed to a minimum, i.e. The security show. It's totally unacceptable, and we just have to take action. Now that it is October, it is quite clear that the smallest of the projects this year will be carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u149	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for a fine review of transport projects. As is often the case, local Parliaments speak primarily of their own districts. I've been in that position myself. During my last term, I was a deputy member of the Southern District, and that was especially the case. Hv. A senator spoke of the bottom of Bergen, and I am glad that at last he will see to it that the highway of the land will be broken and that this little but evil piece will run out. But let us also admit that it is not just the road to the road to the target, that there has been a conflict between landowners, and it may be the subject of another speech and other Mass whether we need to examine the extent of its influence; the right of property is very strong, but it is quite often a road in Iceland where property rights prevent the progress of successful transport workers. I'm not living in the districts, and I don't know much, but I've heard that the Breindal honor is very often a vehicle for the southern east of the East and that there has been little shoveling and little maintenance in the last winter. This makes it difficult for some who are building up jobs in Eastern Europe to have a competitive, competitive spirit if we can put it that way, to build up jobs simply because Breindalhem is not being kept open and not cared for for for for months a year. As soon as we celebrate reforming on the road across Axi, this must be a sobering thought to the senator of the district. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u150	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is true that there was a conflict between landowners that might have delayed the project there. However, some time since an agreement was reached, projects could have taken place, if the government had set this aside before. I agree that the right of property can often be very strong, and I have discussed from this platform that it seems unnatural to me that someone owns land from mountain to mountain and has now thought that about 200 yards [200 m] above all of us should, not take down anyone who can block you. As for the Brench Valley and the Mace, and the maintenance of it, we've discussed much about the snow or the winter weather. We talked about it considerably, Arctic Parliament, because there was a terrible situation in the assembly in those parts. Some did not make it home. I'm just looking at the highest. A president because the situation was bad. It was a very bad winter, it may have been more, but it was also being impaired because there was no money. Winter service was inexhaustible, and the road had been calling for it for a very long time. This does not mean ignoring the increase in demand. Farmers are uniting, becoming one sector, medical areas, etc, and people are demanding a higher level of activity and higher opening rates than before. I agree that this means a less competitive position, like with the Breind Valley Show and the Aarnes Slap, I name it as an example. This is where residents are virtually trapped during the winter because they are not caught. All of this impairs the competitiveness of people who want to build whole - souled jobs, that is clear. You are being told that you cannot take care of him only in certain parts of the country if this service is not there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for answer to me. But I'd like to take this a little further because in my mind, and in the mind of all of us, air transport and land transport are the same transport system, i.e. part of moving people from part of the country. If you're building a tourist service on Eastern Europe, it's very important to have a good connection; the airport at Egls, it's very important, and the Breindal honor is all over you, if you want to look at it that way. I don't know what I think. A judge at the airport in Watermur, but most of the people here have stepped in a pita and come out of the country are very opposed to moving the airport. To me it is a matter of settlement, of great importance, to move the international airport south into Chefavík. We all know and know of your own travel behavior that if you have to go into a city and stop there, there's little chance that you'll continue to go to faraway places, such as the northeast corner of the country. However, if you get there on a straight flight from Keflavík, or from the international airport wherever he is, this will be more likely to happen. I feel that it is based and that the competitiveness of the country is strengthened by the fact that the interior airport leaves the Hydromosis and becomes closer to the international airport. I have lived west myself, and I know very well how important flights are for those living on the shore. But in the context of the section, in the context of the length of the journey, the trip from Chefjordur Airport to Reykjavík, for example, for those who live east on land, or in Eastern Europe, is so short. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking, "Have a why." A senator thought about it from this point of view?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-05-164.u152	Madam President. I agree that air travel and transportation on the roads of the country should be classified as public transportation. Hv. A senator speaks of a good connection, and the airport at Eglslands, Radamrina, and Keflavík Airport. I've been in favor of the airfield being in the Waterstain as long as there's not enough results to go anywhere else. If you could take it out and just take care of the tourism, I agree that it would be best to fly into Cheflavík and fly from within the country. But there's just so much more underneath. If most people were available, we would also be talking about other things. While the land hospital is in its place and while there is more and less public service here in 101 - a large proportion of the people flying in the country are attending such a service and we know the discussion of the disease - I feel that the Radial Airport is right. Whatever comes out of the surveys of Whalesun, or whether something will be done in Cheflavík - Chefavíví others will not be what is happening today and will not be able to add to the present domestic flight - before we close the airport in the Hydromur. I understand that Reykjavíkurburg wants this precious land under an apartment property. I'm not gonna slow it down. In the big context, it's like this to me, but if I was to look at things only out of the tourism department, I think it's quite ready to think that Keflavík would be a better option. We just don't live in that reality.
