ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u1	The president wants to say that yesterday he sends sympathy to the president of the upper and lower branch of the Italian Parliament after news of the terrible earthquake that occurred in the middle of Italy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u2	Borist has a letter from what? 4th, including S.H., Konráðsdóttir Brésdóttir, says that she will not attend a meeting next time, since she has now taken a birth holiday. So today, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the Independence Party lists the district's "Geir Jón Þórisson." Geir Jón Þórisson has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u3	Mr. President. I just can't put my words together when I come to the hall and see the thin ship and see the schedule of the day. I see that the program is not expected for the vote yesterday and was postponed for the absence of members of Congress. I see that today's program will probably be completed within 40 minutes. I wonder, Mr. President, how long should we be held here for nothing? I am concerned with the respect of the council that there are members of the council being announced for half an hour, which most of them clearly do not see or attend, after we had been informed that it was very necessary to have a long conference to complete a wide variety of important matters. Mr. President. This can't go on like this. I hadn't planned to go up to the conference board, but when you come into the room and see the program, I can't get a word out of it. I'd like to encourage the highest. A president to take action, let us know what we're doing. Councilmen that the Council will be held and the council will be cut off at the scheduled time, for there is no reason to continue this council, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u4	A respectable president. It is quick to say simply with a bang. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. I think yesterday was certainly not to increase the council's husk, not perfunctory, but simply no speech on the program and pictures of an empty council room and rich ministers. There must be a higher requirement that he does not invite a council in summer unless he thought he himself would be there for that assembly. It is simply this way right now on the second day in a row that the greater part is so thinly organized to the assembly that he himself has announced so that it is not possible to have a vote or to complete its payment. This, a respectable president, is no substitute for anyone wherever he stands, and for the council and the politics, surely, as it has been here these past few days, unfortunately, a respectable president, and I encourage a president to handle this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what's been going on. It's not just in the council hall that's thin, you feel in the committees that it's less attendance. We on the smaller part of the budget committee have discussed that if the attendance has gone so far, it is the lesser part that sustains the discovery, it is now really self-limited. This week we did not have a congregation meeting, so you did not know exactly what we were going to do, but we are surprised to learn how few cases are ready to be turned into a Senate Hall. I agree with what's been said, it's time to get to the top. The prime minister may present himself at this time and explain the rest to us and what we should expect. Of course, the situation today, in which there is no vote for two consecutive days of telecommunication, is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u6	President. There has been no meeting with any of the council groups this week. I think it's a concern, and I'd like the President to meet us right now after this council meeting so that we'll go over what the next week should be. I'm surprised that we're here to attend a meeting which is merely a question of unsupervised inquiries that could easily have been scheduled yesterday. As we have seen, very few members of the local Parliament are from the greater part of the house. It was threatened that if the lesser part were not to behave, then the council would be here in the infinite. There is still no question of what the Senate should be like. You've heard of it, Mr President, that a plan will not stand. What does that mean? I demand the president to meet with the heads of Congress with all classes at once.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u7	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health and Ministers of Social Affairs and Hospital Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u8	Mr. President. It is well known in recent years and decades that the government hides its members to care for individual public services, yet it has been quite clear that the community's foundations are largely to be driven by the public, to be driven by society in a social way. I want to go to the highest. In view of the fact that we have received such information, especially since the integrity of the Independence Party in recent years, the prime minister and replacement form of the Agency after its class's policy in these matters is that they are the means to increase the significance of their personal success in public service. We can mention the private business of three health - care centers that have already been implemented. We may not be sure whether a new hospital hospital will be invited out or if they will be part of it. We can say a word of the highest degree. Minister of state to improve the contribution of private transport to the general transport sector. And we can mention a greater proportion of budgetary bodies, in a hairy way, but to indicate that private citizens are increasingly involved in flying in various parts of Europe, and that, as it is said, new financing means are being taken into account in the proposed development of airport workers in Chefavík. If we interpret this into human language, of course, it is being referred to as a private battle between international airports in Cheflavík, or at least part of it. There is not a single word about the increased importance of private success in a government contract or the common declaration of the present government, not a single word. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister who is the vice president of the Progress Party, whether this is the common policy of the government classes - where it cannot be understood as being an increasing emphasis on private affairs, and not just isolated cases as we know from the past few years and decades, but exactly a change of direction - whether the advance team supports this increase in the importance of private quality services, increasing the importance of private success in the transport system of all the peoples.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u9	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. I think it's fine that we take a little open discussion about these matters. I think he who stands here and his company and his whiskers. A senator, president of the left green, is more and less agreed on much of what we want to ensure that is in the hands of the government. However, it can be considered in the past years and decades has been moved to a so - called private business, including, for example. Health that's done quite well. Medical expert services are more or less private. It may have been one of the problems we have been experiencing that health care is not the first stop all over Iceland. For one reason, it has been because family doctors who have chosen to study it may have preferred to go to another special study in which they represent their own business. The models are from both Denmark, Sweden, and Norway, where family doctors can have private business in a similar way than other specialists. So I don't think we're moving the business out of the government even if we were to move into that area. We are picking up models from other northern countries, as we have often done before. With regard to transportation, I would like to remind you that the Halfground tunnel was in private business. I haven't heard a lot of people in this room talking about being wrong and that the state should have done that. I also doubt, if I come to double the Hagular tunnel, that the tens of billions of them would be taken out of the common road system and put into effect. However, this is one of the things that are not spoken, so I think it would be nice to take that discussion here. [[The president calls.]] I remember that last term, when it happened. A member of the government was very interested in putting transport projects into the hands of private servants and in building hospitals and other activities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u10	Mr. President. It is true, and it is true that there has been a tendency in other parts of the North, where there has been no left control over the past few years, but right governments to transfer public business to private hands. I initially said that we had certainly done this in extraordinary cases, and that was often a fine thing to do. V.E.G. A minister calls the Halfground tunnel. What I'm asking is the basic view of the Agency's initiative in this matter, what the group thinks of basic health services such as health care, which should be the basis of these issues, not some particular exceptional circumstances, who should be the basic policy of transport, not speculating projects where other options are offered, for example. This is a fundamental element not to be broken in the government's policy declaration. As we keep track of matters, we get the feeling that this is where the Independence Party's policy was in the government business, and it is, of course, a matter of open discussion for future elections, where the classes are standing. [[The president calls.]] This is one of the upper political issues today, and it is about how we view public service and who we believe should be in charge and service to them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u11	A respectable president. I rejoiced in this discussion, and it must be open - minded because people also have to admit where they themselves are coming from and what they have been standing for. The basic vision of the candidates is that we want a market system in Iceland, a mixed economy where private business of individuals thrives, but also in cooperation with others, in cooperation, in social functions. We want to ensure a high level of socialism in our policy, making sure that everyone can enjoy the opportunities the country offers. We are indeed a middle class, and it is good to be able to discuss this matter of fundamental vision. But then we need to make decisions when we face the task. I can't say that this is not happening when left governments are in power elsewhere in the North, because it has certainly been over decades. Then people have continued on this course. We've looked up to the Northland as a model in business, and I trust that. [[The president calls.]] I think it would be wise for us to take this discussion, but the basic view of candidates is very clear, and I could be happy to come up here and read it out day in and day out. I think it would just please members of the council and be useful for them to listen to. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u12	A respectable president. I like the respect of the council very much these days and our work here. That's why I'd like to direct an inquiry to the highest level. Prime Minister. During this season, we have had a particularly difficult time keeping work plans. I don't think plans have nearly never been successful in the season and that has been changed, this last spring, where this summer council in August was set up, i.e. A council for three weeks. This was agreed on by the Presidency Committee and spoke about the importance of this because there were big and important issues that would have to be completed before the election could be completed, which was announced to have to be rushed into the autumn. We experience instability and uncertainty in Icelandic politics. It's been vague until, in fact, every last few days when the election would take place. There have been various statements that might not be done in the fall, etc. At least we're gathered at the General Assembly for three weeks on the President's Work Programme, and suddenly we're in a state of sort here, representing the public at the General Assembly of the Icelands, especially in summer. I wanted the highest perspective. The prime minister has that position, what his ideas are on big matters that should be completed before the end of the council, and whether we are completing our pipes now, or whether we look forward to a big surprise or a new matter for the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u13	A respectable president. I think it's always good for us to talk about our own jobs and the respect of the council and things like that. Now I have experience with two terms and with a plan of work I think, without specifically considering it, it's such a feeling that the work programme of the last terms has just never been carried out, but it's only been quite successful in this terms period. Let's leave it. Let us see. Of course, there are times that have changed since we set up here in spring with election plans at the end of October. I've been surprised to hear it here, for example. in the conference board, they heard it last night at the council, only the views that were overlooked. The senator's meeting for a three - week schedule, and then the Senate will conclude because at a meeting with the heads of the classes, which I and the secretary of finance, we introduced the ideas of postponing the meeting day of the council, may well have been out of September and longer if it seems necessary to choose at the end of October. This is no new news. We spoke about this in spring at one of the two meetings and the meeting held here on the Council's behalf, when it began. Then it is a fact that in the first days of the council, the government presented two major issues, one with regard to the special use of young people and the insurance and the second day of the council, a bill came up on the decommission. This morning the prime minister was offered a bill on the laws of the administration. We've talked about and I know that the social and housing minister has recently introduced to the government's oppositional ideas about social security that have been involved here in cooperation with the groups, not just during this most ideal period, but for a long time in cooperation with many members, and many have worked there. I think it's a good time to go over these matters well and try to finish them all before we go to the election. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u14	A respectable president. I think I have to say that although things were not okay before, it's not a good reason to keep them in bad shape and to remind them that the last term was about a lot of special things because they were dealing with the emergency day after the crash. It may have been understandable that the government of the country at the time had a measure of failure and uncertainty, but the times have changed considerably. Unidentified and uncertain about the activities of the council today is hard to understand and embarrassing. The idea of having a meeting late into elections is particularly strange in view of the fact that there is not a major national crisis that needs to be addressed to be recognized. I must declare a certain disappointment with the position that we are in uncertainty about the activities of the council while there is very little to be done except the case of the government, which you regret, with all due respect, the unpleasantness of a campaign. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u15	A respectable president. I know that in this room, of course, we have different opinions about what we consider important and what we stress when we make adjustments to improve our community. There's nothing wrong with that. I agree with what. A senator's lack of ability to compare well with something that has ever been worse. However, I will remember sitting here at council 2009 all summer and the emergency project that then took place, according to the viewpoint of the government that then sat, was applying for involvement in the European Union, which, in view of all that has happened later, was clearly not a very significant event and perhaps a mischievous from A to A. It is such a different story that humans can also have a different vision of whether it was reasonable or not. I want to reiterate that at the council there were 26 cases coming out of committees on the behalf of the council. I think we've settled here five, six cases and ten if a sufficient number of senators had been in the Senate room yesterday. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would argue that the council is doing quite well in this regard and that the 16 cases mentioned in the council will soon be entering the council, and the next week there will be plenty to do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u16	You've put the Senate to sleep.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u17	A respectable president. I'm celebrating the declaration. Prime Minister that the government is about to complete existing recommendations for the rise in pensions and for reducing the impairment and simple system. But I must ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is this a government agreement? Is finishing this at the council a common priority? How, then, did this payment for a five - year national budget last week? It paid the highest. Prime Minister votes with a plan that does not expect this increase in pensions but the highest. A social minister was moved to sit next to the money payment for just this, if I have understood it correctly. How does this declaration rhyme with the highest force? Prime Minister, that the season should not be completed any differently than raising the pension, to the statement of the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance that the Minister of the Government who does not support government launches cannot expect his own case to be fulfilled? Is it not clear from the secretary of finance that this refers to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the subject? If the plan is to handle such complex and extensive cases as a change in social security and the rise in pensions, how has the government's manager thought that this work will be done, even if we were here throughout September? Now, according to my follow-up here this week, the case isn't even settled into the government. When will the foreman accept an increase in pension into the government? Has the matter been costed? When will it be done from the board of directors to raise the pension before election? When can the council expect the matter to be planned? If not all of us, when can we be able to support the fine plans, members of the government, many of whom are opposed, provided that these suggestions are being fulfilled?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u18	A respectable president. It is good to be supported by unsubstantiated queries in a matter of government or procrastination. A senator, hasn't seen or only slightly. It helps us in the government to finish business. Thank you. A senator for concern about the government business. [[Up front.]] It has been observed in the past that such viewpoints are used to promote their affairs. Even though I spoke up earlier, talking to some difficulty. paritaprevir Proppér that it might not be good to be always comparing things from one term to another, of course it has to happen in this relationship where there is trouble. Hjörvar He was one of the key players in that combination. The government that then sat was more and less in memory throughout the entire period of human history, even the minister of their government. It has to be said at this point that humans can resort to all kinds of illustrations, where they voted, even ministers, against the financial or otherwise. Yet, that government remained for four years, perhaps not making much of it. [[Up front.]] We're working on something here, okay? paritaprevir Helgi, that's what I'm Hjörvar about. We will focus on bringing them into the council and giving the council an opportunity to handle that task. It is heartwarming to know that a great will and support is in the government's plans. When they come out, the council can deal with them, and I expect the cooperation to be good with all members of the council, even fierce. Councilmen in the government, to complete that case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u19	A respectable president. The government's manager for information then has the bill on the Department of Social Affairs, where all the people, and indeed, the whole world, can read what is in it. Similarly, there has been extensive cooperation in the case of pensions, and there is no need to fear the opposition to the government. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister here and now, because I truly had doubts about the will of the group of fellow workers on the case: Is it a promise of prime minister, on behalf of the government, to the elderly in Iceland that this bill will enter the council before it goes home and that it will be prepared by the government for the elections of the elderly, with the simplicity of the system, and with the limitations of the system?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u20	A respectable president. Thank you so much. A senator for declaring support for a case that has truly been won for a long time, including Work on what? A member of the council and former minister, the Guðbjartur - given son of Hannesson, and many of those who came to the matter, and later, out of shock. paritaprevir Blöndalur, a warm Bevelop who led that committee. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, in turn, took steps to complete it in the cooperation of many classes. A lot of people have come up with this case. That's one of the things the government's been working on, and I think it's very important. I have thought that the most important thing is that when the council is working, as it is today, we deal with it and we finish it if it's thought to be a benefit for the country and nation. This matter is one of them, and we must try to do what we can to complete it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u21	President. I'm going to continue to discuss government plans regarding the issues to take place in this brief summer council that I hear at the highest court. Then there will be nothing very short in the General Work Programme. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether this case has been handled by the government, including the government, has been handled by the prime minister. three cases, tops. Minister of society and housing intends to submit to the council, or where they actually stand in the process, and when standing for them to enter the council accurately. Since then, the highest. The prime minister himself said that he would recommend a change in the government structure of the land, that he would put three branches into his constitution. Has it been set up at a government meeting, and has it been approved that this matter should enter the council? If not, when? Is there any other cases that have been taken up at government meetings or are they on their way to such a meeting so that they can be arranged at the General Assembly? Now it seems that way, topv. Prime Minister, with a few issues before the council, it is a huge knife in a cow. That's where we're talking about the livestock deal. He seems to be stuck on a committee, and he is not down for further discussion at the Hall of Congress. Then I'd like to ask, finally, how is it possible for the senators of the greater part of the Assembly Hall to vote on all these vital matters of the government they want to pass through?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u22	A respectable president. I believe it was made in a public statement by the General yesterday that several members of the Parliament were working on behalf of the council, including the U.S. Foreigners and others would also have been busy with other jobs in districts. So last night, there was no human vote. [[Up front.]] It can happen and has happened many times, and it will likely happen sometime in the future that it will not be possible. I've tried to sit in the chair and count, and I think this might happen. With regard to the constitution bill, these three changes to the Constitution, it was submitted to the General Assembly this morning as a Senate bill of prime minister, just as we have discussed, including. to all the representatives of the government now for a long time, that it would be what we were required to do if there was not an extensive agreement to bring up the bill as originally planned. I feel that it is important and have repeatedly expressed my opinion that the council will deal with this. Now the window is open to discuss the matter. It is an election after not long, and after that, there is a new assembly that could agree on that matter, if the council succeeds in removing these three new articles in the constitution that we've been discussing, like many other cases, for a very long time. It can be said that this may be ten, even fifteen years of preparation, for at least six years, which has been working progressively to make some adjustments. This is with regard to the first of the resource regulations, secondly an article on the increase in the country's approach to national payments, and then an article on the nature of the land and its status. I believe there would be an opportunity for these changes. In other matters, they will appear here at the council once they have been taken out of the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u23	President. I think it's a little strange that we can't get an accurate plan on when these big issues should enter the council. There's got to be some plan on when the government's planning to clear up the social security, delivery policy, and changes in the role of camp loans. This is no small deal. Then we have the LIN case inside, which obviously needs a lot of change if it's possible to settle into the parties. What I experience here is so much a disagreement between the government parties that it can't just be resolved from here on out of the council. Try to throw responsibility on the smaller part that has been in a very responsible position. I wish to have a precise schedule from the highest level. Prime Minister. If he can't have a timetable on how to handle matters, then the top is right. Clearly, prime minister is unable to rule the land. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u24	A respectable president. Thanks again for worrying. The senators of the government and the cooperation. I can say, though, that it's doing just fine, and it's been doing just fine. We plan to continue to complete the task we want the council to take and complete before we enter the election, because they are a nation and nation. Then let's get it together as a boy. A senator has discussed that there is some out of control here, I'd like to remind you that in the summer or spring, in April, May, and June, we took care of a lot of cases, especially in May, about 353/440 cases of the 80 we gave to the government stand that we wanted to finish. There's some kind of stack of them still on committees, somebody's been out here, and they're done, someone else's gonna be ready in the weeks. Then there are the new subjects we have been discussing. One of them will be put forward here, and I'll say the same thing. The more they come to the council, the better, and the more likely they can finish properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u25	V.E.G. President. I come up here to talk to the highest. Social and housing minister on the new general housing system. It was at the beginning of the summer that at the Council, we were able to coordinate a new tenet - spray system in Iceland that many of us have high expectations. The system will be of primary benefit to young people and to less income people who are able to obtain a rented home, but as everyone knows, there is an enormous lack of housing that people can afford to live in. Many people live in either too high a house or a house with their parents. I come up here to ask the minister how it's going to get me to introduce this new system. It'll take time, of course, but we have to use each month. I'd like to ask you how many, e.g. Housing institutions, communities, lawyers and partnerships have sought ministers to accept their entry into the new system. I'd like to know how many people have got the approval of a local stock company, but the rurals are supposed to give 12% stock contributions against 18% of commercial stock gains, and how many have applied for stock contributions to the Substitution Fund. I think it's very important to get this information out of the way, because it's going to have to be a fast and reliable job in this case. I hope to the highest. Ministers, come up here and tell me there's a lot of gas in the new system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u26	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I also want to use this opportunity to say that I was very happy to see it in an announcement. The senator specifically stated that she saw that in the coming years, she saw to it that the additional contributions were made to build up locally. We went right after the General agreed to write the required regulations, on the other hand, the Regulations for the Substitution of State Development and the Commission's Regulations on the development of rural society. This was done, of course, in collaboration with the local community, so that regulations are now being carried out. The apartment loan fund has been getting ready and sending out letters on every rural society in which he informed on the law and that the fund was planning to advertise the institutions in the pages and in the autumn months. He is now doing so, and it is assumed that application deadlines for the first stock proposal for the state will be completed on September 30, but they are also expected to advertise again this year, so it will be given an opportunity for this to be done by twice in advertising. At the same time, I've been so lucky to have a presentation at a meeting with rural society in the West, where ASI went through his plans and enlightened them. that it was very long before the approval of the first housing facility of the Agency, which it will provide for the minister to be accepted. ASI has also hired the task manager and also introduced its plans for building apartments in the general apartment system in accordance with the labour market agreement and the workforce, where it takes the first place in building 1.150 apartments. They have an intervention for these areas or an agreement with the rural areas, and they expect to invest for up to 27 billion in a six-year period, or as they have said, to deliver one block a month from 2018. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u27	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and it's a pleasure to know that there is a plan for building 1,150 apartments on the part of the Allied European Union of Iceland. However, there was a plan to build 2,300 apartments in five years. Then I'd like to ask a minister: Does she not worry about what happened in the bill processing that the criteria were not quite correct and when we had installed a new foundation, then obviously this would not be 2,300 apartments but closer to 1,500 apartments? When contracts were being passed, it was clear to ASI that this would be about 1,000 apartments per year for five years because it is the real need, although ASI has been pushed down to fewer apartments. It's not the highest. The social and housing minister agreed that we'll need 5,000 apartments in the next few years if we're going to fill the need for an apartment house? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u28	A respectable president. We see a number of signs that there is a considerable lack of housing around the country. I have been invited to attend the financial conference of the local community, which will be specifically discussed with me on the general area of the apartment. I know that rural communities around the country have been meeting about this and reviewing the letters received from an apartment loan fund. The camp loan fund staff have been following them since with meetings. It has also been so that individual rural societies have advertised to partners on the establishment of housing property institutions, as well as to many people who have also looked to a strong, free society, such as. The National Association of Development, as a potential partner. One of the things I also think it's important to go over now is to face the student's housing problems, where we see a very long waiting list and discuss what we might have to do, even now, in order to cope with it on the basis of the budgets that were set aside for our housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u29	A respectable president. I thank the President for hosting a meeting with members of the council as well. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir requested earlier. However, I'd like to say that the General Work Programme was adopted in us with a change and that provided that this would be a good work environment for the council, a well-worked and anti-regional situation, and that everyone would be left alone to work together. That has not changed, Mr. President. This has been done well, but at the same time, it will now occur in an unprepared question period to the highest level. The prime minister, who is the head of the Commission, pretends that the Allied Work Programme is not worth anything, is not worth the paper. He comes in here and announces it to the General Assembly and the President including meeting for weeks after the General Work Programme is completed. This is unacceptable. This is the behavior of the Commission at the expense of the Generals' honour. I stress that we could do this very well when we meet here after this is unacceptable. The Parliament needs to take care of its own respect and to make it very clear that the General Work Programme is an important paper. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u30	President. I am deeply offended after listening to the Supreme Court. Prime Minister and his disrespect for the President of the Generals and the Parliament. I think it's very important that we let things develop so that the General looks like it's a completely passive tool of the European Commission. It's not the form we want from the council, the heart of democracy. Then I also feel very important that it comes out, and we are answered at the meeting next with the chairman of the council, when members of Congress finally have the opportunity to discuss what is going on at the council. It's very strange to come in here day after day, since the board members don't seem to be at work. I think it's serious. We are here to pay for jobs, but there are no issues on the program. Of course, it's not okay and it's not to help with the rest, so I'm sure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u31	The president would like to announce that this given the reason why the president decided not to vote yesterday was the alibi of the senators from government and government position. When the President is even. To make such a decision, he also looks forward to the coming of members of the government and government opposition, for, of course, both of them have the right to vote, and in such cases as yesterday, it was possible to postpone a vote for this purpose, the president decided to do so. Often, they even wish for it. by special councils, votes are postponed, and when possible, the president has responded.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u32	A respectable president. I'm glad that the chairmans of Congress meet and discuss the progress of the Senate. It must have been clear when the programme was confirmed here in spring that they were aware that it would still be possible to discover when the election would start and how it would play out the events that were in progress. I have to say that there is nothing going on at the council. Everyone knows that most of the Parliament's work is carried out on committees. There are dozens of cases in committees. These include removal of the currency registers and the new issues we have made and the housing market in Iceland. The case is a review process, and there are other major issues. Some have just returned to the council. Not being a hard meeting meeting every day is no problem. There is no occasion for men to come up to the council hall, day after day, and to complain that there is no meeting until night. There are hundreds of cases in progress at the council and enough work to do. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the same people who complained that the government's Senate Department was suddenly being completely unrealistically long complaining about his being way too short.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u33	A respectable president. It was surprising to hear the highest. Even in September, the prime minister speaks of a meeting. We have a work programme agreed on by the Committee to Presidency and President. I don't know why we have a work plan if we're not gonna respect it. I find it interesting that we're very proud of the new government law, where we focus on forethought and discipline and plan things ahead, but then we're at the council sometimes like monkeys, don't know what's up and what's down and doesn't seem to be able to plan anything. It is not too much to believe that the government will bring about the most important issues at the time we have up until next week. Then there's an election. Then, the pack groups will handle matters that will not enter the campaign and stake them on to the nation, putting them through in November if they vote. I don't get it. I think it's the best. In the heat of the game, the prime minister was so distracted. This is often the case in this public address, one at a time saying something or another. [[The president calls.]] But I thank you very much. President for launching a council meeting with us later. Then we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u34	President. I agree with those who have criticized the fact that the work programme has not been revised. It goes on September 2 and September 2 are next week. I'd like to point that out, too, because of words you said. Secretary of finance to the great prime news he's talking about that we're going over were sent out for review and returned to September 1 which is the day before the work programme ends. If we're to stay at this council longer than September 12 we need to change the law in this country. I ask, "Why don't the people who here are not in charge of reevaluating the work programme and providing a bill for changing the law because it doesn't work for them to comply with the law? " Then we'll just change them. It's the corridor here in this room. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u35	A respectable president. With the highest. The secretary of finance is getting involved in the conversation that I especially want to welcome, I would like to ask him to confirm his position on a work plan. It has been observed that the prime minister considers a plan of work of no value, and it has been observed that the minister of finance is of the same opinion. Yet, he has not spoken so strongly, that he considers the work programme to be the highest. President, Einar K.. The Guðfinnsson's son, of no value, not standing up, but of something else. Then I'm going to pray to the highest. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, informs the council how he feels about it. But the situation is intolerable. The situation is completely intolerable to the Council. That it seems only to be a natural and defender of the Commission, both of the heads of the board here at the Generals, to come down here and actually take over the General Plan and put it to nothing. I'd also like to say, sir, a respectable president, that a large number of the member statesmen have begun a campaign. They're in a national campaign. They're in meetings with people all over the country. [[The president calls.]] Meanwhile, we're here to do Congress jobs, committee jobs, etc., with people more or less away. [[The president calls.]] So it is that a meeting is being announced tomorrow without a work plan. [[The president calls.]] Nor will it work, Mr. President, and that is what we need to discuss.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u36	President. In view of the U.S. Senate figures at the council yesterday, and the reason we couldn't have a vote, I'd like to point out that all three Pirata members were in the house when we received text messages from the President that there would be no votes. What I find serious is that it is quite clear that there are only 20 cases involved. But the Supreme Court is right. Secretary of finance that this is a difficult and complex matter. That is why I wonder that instead of having a brief meeting today and yesterday, there were no special committee days that could be continued. It is quite surprising that now we are in the position of the committees that we have to issue a case and that it must be taken into account that there is not enough time for those who are to give the authority to do so, because the Council's work programme is as it is today, so the Council will complete its work on September 2. [[The president calls.]] That's the situation today, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u37	The President agrees. A senator makes it normal to try to make the most of the time. When it was yesterday's time that there would be a lot of action on that day, the president decided, and they discussed matters with the council members who responded well to having called day by name, we could say, after noon today. However, the president would like to say that he was very disappointed that the heads of Parliaments were not to seize this opportunity and hold more of the Senate hearings today and that it would have been possible to avoid it, in some case, at least, perhaps not in all cases, to hold a meeting tomorrow. Therefore, the president wants to say that he believes that, for example. Tomorrow's Senate hearing should be held in a good agreement with members of Congress, particularly in view of the good choice of the president to create space for the Senate hearing today. He is disappointed that humans do not take advantage of that opportunity. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u38	A respectable president. I'd like to state that in view of the words that have fallen that I and the highest. The prime minister has been extremely explained at meetings with all categories that stand to change the day of the new assembly. At the same time, we have been explained that there will be an overall increase in the number of session days. This I don't think should surprise anyone. This is not the scene to discuss how a work plan might be changed. It's done at other meetings. I don't think it's an unprovoked raid here, using a discussion about the conference board of Presidents in the Senate to pass messages from the council that there are no issues to cooperate with. The fact is, there are many huge cases involved. Yes, some of them are not ready for a discussion. They're being treated in committees. [[The president calls.]] Let us give the committees peace in order to win them and have meetings when matters need to be discussed and elected. It's been quite successful with the president's lead.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u39	A respectable president. Whatever the case, it was during the last term or whatever it has been in the past, it does remind you of how often the work has been here. It fills an understandable fear of it when it is at its highest level. Prime Minister arrives here and speaks as he spoke before, that at the end of things, when things have been incredibly calm, quieter than very often before, then suddenly one will consider changing the schedule and likely following the date of election. Something that has been discussed at the end of the largest protests in Iceland, if I understand correctly, here in spring. That's why I think it's totally normal for us to record it here when people talk like the highest. Prime Minister. I'm happy that members of the council are going to meet after, but I also don't want to belittle the fact that people are going to the conference board to talk about it, because this is to talk about the exact details.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u40	A respectable president. V.E.G. The Secretary of Economics says that it's not supposed to surprise anyone, and they said it was his partner, he and the highest. Prime Minister, to change not the assembly day. Then I call for a bill that says the law of the country that the meeting date should be changed Tuesday in September. I'm asking for a bill to be submitted. I'd also like to say, sir, a respectable president, that we must have a little talk about this because before a council or before we met here, it was said that everything would now wonder that the government's not getting in the way. I just want to say what a man I respect said to me yesterday: Well, it's clear at least not to get in the way of things here in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u41	A respectable president. It's all very strange. I can see myself moved to the lowest possible degree. The Minister of Economics says he's not the President of the Parliament, he doesn't have the authority to hire a plan, that's this fine man sitting behind me, the highest. The president, who has not changed the plan and the Committee to Presidency has not been found to do so. A work plan as it is currently on the way that we complete September 2nd. Of course, it's where we're sitting. Government ministers can't decide about anything like this between themselves. I just wanted it to be a little clear so we're not here in some kind of fool's business talking about something we don't have to talk about.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u42	Mr. President. I want to give my best speech. President. I don't think it's quite surprising that the presidents of committees didn't use that space as the highest. The president later created them today. I'm here to look for the highest look. President. I hear that there's been a meeting at the State Department tomorrow. There's been no invitations on my computer. I don't know what time it is. The Chairman can't show up. But at the time I hear this meeting is supposed to be, I have a long time before a date with my future, i.e. in my dentist. I don't think it makes sense to me that you're throwing in these meetings on a day where it wasn't supposed to be a council and when it's clear that there's enough time today. Other than that, it looks like everything to me, including. how the greater part has delayed the review of three major cases that Prime Minister is talking matters over the planned end of the council in order to delay the campaign, to prevent the start of the election struggle. They're going to keep the council here as long and as close to the election as they can. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u43	A respectable president. Thank you very much. President for bringing this up. We're just going to use this opportunity and meet up later on on the General and Education Committee. I would also like to call attention to a particular problem that is at hand at the Committee. It is natural to be reporting on important matters. We are, for example. reviewing changes in the student loan system, and they are now working on this without a notice. Of course, we can take some guests, but it is the custom to let a deadline pass and reviews before going to a lot of material work on a subject. So there is an intermediate situation. I'd like to discuss this with you afterwards about the President's conference board. This is the part that should be used to discuss these matters. I'm interested in this. I find it immoral, and I find it remarkable that there are many of the council's administrations, that the government groups have taken the initiative, in effect, to ask for this council around here, to make a great statement in the community that many large cases need to be subsidized, and to tell the government opposition not to get in the way, but not to do all the things - all the cases - all the cases that are supposed to agree with the little boy at his beginning. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a bad habit. It's ridiculous to be picking this in by your hand, completely skimming at the job plan. [[The president calls.]] The habit must be eradicated. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u44	This is echoed by many presidents throughout history.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u45	A respectable president. I was also going to mention that the General and Education Committee will be meeting later. I like the discussion that passed through here a little bit. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir heart reflects a misunderstanding that we tell ourselves that is a true understanding, which is that it is the Council of Congress. You see, it's the government that controls it. It's an experiment in Iceland. I think it's worth considering why. In my opinion, there's a big reason we have this majority tradition. Actually, I didn't mean to give a talk about it. What's important about what's going on here is that people need to know the future, people have to be able to plan, not just for elections, but even for elections. Then it is important that we be clear about this so that people can organize themselves. It's important, a respectable president, for the voters of the country, for the public in the country as well. People feel like they need people here at the council. They feel it at a church hall, they feel it at committee meetings, they feel it about a time table over committee meetings, as a dignified president has rightly pointed out. So let us not pretend that this is not a problem. This is it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u46	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u47	Mr. President. Even though I did not think of it in the first place, I decided to say good - bye. In view of the situation today, I find this talk of a large proportion of the work being carried out on committees. All this week, two representatives of the greater part have attended a meeting at the budget board. The chairman announced to a community center earlier, I saw that it was completing summer vacation in France, so she has not seen why she has met with a minister here. Neither do other members of the Sanhedrin and they do not preach the war. It's awful not to be called in by lipmen. That's what they're up to, senators. However, the situation has been different in the General and Education Committee. There the chairman who was going on leave has made sure that the committee is well designed and that most of the items have been cared for by him, i.e. that they are in the majority of the meeting staff. This has not been the case with a financial committee. In such a situation, it cannot be claimed that extracurricular matters can be resolved. þm. Guðmundur Steingrimur went over, there's a story, and there's been a meeting, including... In fact, today, about 180 pages of the student council we got yesterday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u48	Mr. President. For us senators in this hall, it is getting tired of being some sort of statin in the play on the government's internal problems. In this cooperation, we do not stand a stone on a rock, and in the meantime, we are here in a half-inch hall with a very poor schedule, except for a marvelous special discussion by the Continental Board on a post-traumatic auction. I come up here to do that on the highest level. General Congress president that he calls to himself members of the General Assembly and reviews how this council can be completed. The big issues that have been announced have not even entered the government. Because of us senators and because of the respect of this institution, I pray to the highest authority. The president calling in the party leaders, trying to figure things out, and take over. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u49	A respectable president. I'm here to describe the support of the conference board and the work plan for the President of the Generals. As a representative of the anti-continental party, I take to heart the word that we are not to be getting in the way. I really don't want to get in the middle of Congress, and it's clear that I'm not getting in the hands of members of the government because they don't show up in this room. [[The point is, what are you saying?]] With one good exception, I'm not saying it. [["Hello."]] And even two. [[Up front.]] Three. We've got three members of the board. Yeah, that's fine. [[For the record, that's the point.]] That's the list. But I'd also like to start a discussion about committee meetings. There's talk of holding a meeting on the State Department tomorrow, but it's not yet being announced. I find very negative news about the respect and effectiveness of the Allied thought of what happened. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is here at work with toothache. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I don't feel worthy of duty or of the members of the Generals' committee that there is such uncertainty as when or whether the committees are being held. [[The president calls.]] So I reiterate support to the conference board at the highest level. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u50	Mr. President. There has been a lot of debate over the last few weeks about fishing in the wake of the delivering of the Faeroes for fish and the buying of the Balkans. The matter of justice is particularly that the people of the country are allowed to enjoy the interest of their possessions and receive the full price of their fishing permit. Iceland and I are rich in resources, and we think that's one of our greatest blessings. We do not agree on how to divide money that the resource creates, and there are endless debates over the matter year after year. Though much has been achieved in the seas here, the sense of justice still fails to benefit the community from its use of resources, as will best be achieved. The concept of sustainable development is extremely relevant in the implementation of policies on the use of marine resources. Resource is sustainable over time if it leads to a balance of three factors; environmental effects, economic effects, and social effects. We've already taken two steps of these three in the management of fishing. Anxiety systems were put on for environmental reasons to protect crops, and this was an effective step from the perspective of environmental effects. This, however, resulted in discrimination between generations of new and older builders and inhibition of recent recruitment. A few years later, because of economic causes, exodus was authorized. This has led to enormous profits in this article. That action, however, has had a negative social impact. By selling quotas, it is possible to substantiate a single supersonic feature as shown by the local graffiti. The population in the coastal region has carried the cost of economic management, but much of it has come to a private person. And people feel that they are unjust, and the debate continues. Overpaying and taxing are too high, it is generally thought to have a bad effect on communities and the economy. Thus, it is the task of politicians to find a balance between tax returns and the welfare services and expenses they are expected to meet. However, there is one kind of tax that economists generally agree that there is no bad or destructive effect, and there is resource taxes and resource costs. Of course, we should take advantage of this. The problem may be that if the government holds hands with those who receive the access rights of the resource, there will be an ongoing debate about it, as well as the resource costs, if we choose them. This problem can be solved in a country with markets on markets. The new season is determined by the exports, and the market determines the price and no one shares it. For example, the fishing market does not share prices or distributions. They're all happy after business. At the markets of the release warrants, the country's company is offering goodbye every year, and the income goes into the state's budget. Our young people need to participate in a real estate campaign and all their property is at stake. The Marketing Law can be activated for good, but that's hardly what I have to explain to the highest. Financial and economic ministers. The debate in society is about the profit of the resource. If we get the resource the full price, and if our rural society gets a share in the income, e.g. through the national parish program, and if the largest part goes to the health system that serves all the people of the country, I believe the issue is over. The decrees of hunting warrants the full price of rules that forbid accumulation of property in few hands, taking into account based grounds. If we could be sure that our income would grow to build up in our rural communities far and wide throughout the country and for health services that are desperately lacking financial support, the peace that is needed for the fishing system would be reached. The developers would no longer have to rely on politicians to determine a price that pleases them and the people of the country benefit from the resource for building in their communities and for their general well - being. It's just.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u51	Mr. President. The basis for the fishing industry and the payment of marine resources beyond other jobs in the country is to use the crop target system to share shares in the total resources of individual fish species and to place fishing costs on the article, which in general reflect that the companies are using resources for the entire population without having paid for it specifically to the owner of the country's own. The fishing costs originate with the Committee's proposals, which functioned in the last few years of the past century. It was dealing with the distribution of the fishing section without any payment. The choice was between recalling the documents over a period of several years or approaching the problem, or even an unpredictable resource use with the pressures of hunting costs that would take into account the survival of the article. The result was fishing. During the last term, this matter was visited again, where the timeless distribution had not yet been satisfied. The present government has had its policy to move the fishing government to its so - called contract. That work hasn't finished yet. But that way was most supportive in the extensive review of all stakeholders during the last term. The cost of fishing takes into account the total of the profits made by an enterprise in the fishing industry. In 2012/2014, hunting fees submitted each year by about a fifth of pure profits in this article, which had been much lower in the years preceding. This government dropped the bottom fish catcher, but it rose at the same time to the seawater. In 2014, however, the proportion of pure profits is higher than any other year. Today's budget is expected to be lower than already, but it is much more because commercial profits have been added, much more than because of changes in hunting costs. This must be kept in mind that collecting fees, and pressures look back in time. The debate now, as I thought, comes from a recent experience of volunteering a small portion of the fishing grounds, especially the Barents Sea. Some may have been glamorized because the foreign companies there paid for it more than the local fishing fees. [[Up front.]] Of course, more is involved than merely looking at the export price alone. The discovery of these new sources failed completely. An adverb's speech called attention to the fact that if the system was not changed, some may be left behind with a painful forehead. In support of this, there was a recent case in the village. But if everything goes to auction, there is no pretext, is there no certainty? Only then will it be. A senator going to the village crew and saying, "Well, it's just that, dear people here, is that the market is under control? What, then, is the danger for the inhabitants of the scattered regions? He's nobody. So to offer all the resources at auction is not merely a decision to change the state fund raise from this article but to change the basis of the fishing industry itself. The fishing system has achieved that the use of the resource is sustainable, and the fishing industry is a lucrative industry. The only purpose of the system that has not been achieved is to ensure the inhabited areas of the country that depend on the article's stability and security. Of course, the building up of markets would be totally concerned with the cooling potential of governments to ensure the stability of so far - called urban development. Therefore, we must not forget all of this discussion that our fishing system is probably the only example of a system that we Iceland has developed and can become a model to other countries for resource management. This is not because there are some fundamental weaknesses that can be tailored off in an instant. Also, it is not to be overlooked that political subjects have received as much publicity, inspection, and discussion in recent years as is done by the fishing system. It is totally at odds with the general reconciliation that has been forming on the main attractions in the fishing system to wonder if the government fund would receive more than or less dollars in the box with auctions compared to the current fishing fees and sacrifice with results in the last few decades. The key point is that we do not make changes in the environment of our most important employment initiatives that are doing well in panic and indecision. For fishing, as for other industry, it takes a solid environment to make decisions that will have long - term consequences, such as investing in ships and expensive instruments to increase the result of fishing. [[The president calls.]] All of this says: At the same time as I go up to the noble goal of my life. A senator claims to be fighting for, which is that the nation is getting a fair share in getting fish from a limited resource, I would like to say that it will not be done by offering up all the resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u52	Mr. President. In the community, there is a continuing and very deep disagreement about the present fishing system. The wealth that truly is the nation, we all understand it so, simply does not provide enough valuables in a common fund, and a few families have grown enormously over a very long period of time. In fact, no one likes the system the way it is except those who make a lot of money from it and then those political groups who have endeavored to protect the privileges, existing government groups. It is a huge and urgent task to create a Community treaty for such a key matter, and in reality, nothing less is required than to aim for a national share in the management of the resource and the provision of the funds produced by the donor. It's an old story and a new that people think it's possible to change the system with a single pencil, with a single magic word, and now it's the magic word of the auction. The fact is, an auction route is, as the name indicates, a method rather than a goal. During the entire discussion, it is important not to lose sight of our goals. What should our objective be to have a good fishing system? In my opinion, and our left green, three goals are the most important. They're all important. They won't be intelligence. First of all, money from the resource needs to be returned to the nation, secondly, the sustainable use of the resource needs to be assured and third, that the basis of the resource is not under way. No single method guarantees that all these goals will be met. The auction route alone looks to the goal of making money, not to mention other factors. A reconstituted way in which the auction route is one factor is probably the right way. In what lies ahead, we must approach the people and call others to the table. A national meeting on the preparation of the fishing system may be the first step toward an important national accord on these topics. It must be a visit to the conversation. No other way to solve such subjects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Harðardóttir This special discussion of an auction mission rather than of hunting fees, as soon as I can agree with the view to equalizing the resources we have from the resource, and the resources generally owned by the nation, so the rural communities enjoy equal terms and to agree with a state of importance, in the community, on the exchange of these common resources. Many people often give evidence that public interests are guided. At an assembly, the interests of large - scale fishing are spoken of that may reflect the position in which the discussion is discussed. So, of course, I welcome this discussion. It's a little bit of a de-or-a-lean discussion, it's been stuck in clichés and interests of contrasts. The fact is that the arrangement we have developed and as a people has made us more practical, more productive, and more productive jobs, not just compared with other local sectors, but in comparison with this global industry. We are constantly looking for ways to increase production, use the raw materials, and thus gain a higher price for the products that are behind the processing of raw materials and the natural resource, workforce and investments in production equipment. Let us not forget the situation of a fishing vessel, a small industry, and an inaccessible industry. If that situation existed, would it not be a great deal of community peace to pay with the article? We are to go to the earth with caution, without throwing down the profitable and profitable system we have built up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u54	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion, and I appreciate the voter, okay? paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. I agree with her in all the basics. She gave a very good talk and clearly explained her viewpoint. We in a bright future have also spoken for auctions on labour markets. That's a good idea. This is a transparent process in which honest prices are made. I know of my session on the Generals' Work Board that it's a scary bix to figure out what's fair, and we politicians are involved in it, i.e. how the cod is fair each time, and what curses to make. That is why these constant arguments are all the same. When people see the cost of hunting next year, there are, of course, about 4 billion people who see it, that it's not good enough and that it can go so badly. Even eaters and builders tell you that they, some of them, could pay a lot more. We, in the Bright Future, raised an auction at macronts last year. There was an unassigned saying, and in part, we suggested that the invitation be made. It has been noted here that the grounds need to be met. All the instruments that we have so far come to know who are supposed to direct and strengthen seawater settlements have proved to be a mistake. It is constantly being moved and sold in a container that has been built all over the desert. [[The president calls.]] There has been no solution. I agree with the chairman of the United States that we should move the money into the settlements through these auctions, and the people there can decide for themselves what to do with that money. It can, for example, be used. determined to work on something other than a fishing road.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u55	President. Pirantics believe that because of basic work, it is very important not to charge excessive fees for using the common resources of Iceland. That's why our party's policy is clear. We want market warrants to be set up so that the resource costs are attacked, not by politicians, but by markets. By means of this arrangement, it is certain that during a difficult year's ride, when yields are low or strong, and disease - stricken, citizens will pay no more for resources than the sector can pay. In better years when the project is better equipped, the cost to the nation will probably be higher. The state could fulfill all the wildest dreams of the right categories. Reduced taxes on the public, decrease the debt of state funds, and reduce the share of the state's employment by simply offering remunerations, as is normal for the nation's property. Furthermore, all of the wildest dreams left men could be met by the same procedure, for the auction of resources would finance health - free services, always access to quality education in well - funded schools, all without additional taxation. The renting of valuables owned by this nation is not tax returns. It is now known that the movers have experimented with a source auction and are less likely to say that they harvested resources to the Department of movers, which was about 2,40% higher than Icelanders carry in resource expenditures. It is a laughing matter that those who want to think that they are liberal and marketistic should speak against the premium of resource costs. It is clear that the groups that speak for their decision on how to divide the resource value between the developed and the nation are not interested in obtaining a wealth of money to clear out fungal profits in the local hospital. Rather, they prefer to hand the results of their common values to a small number of families who can enjoy care at high - tech hospitals abroad without mold. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u56	Mr. President. This debate is about a fundamental question: How should limited quality and resources be assigned, such as the fish in the sea? The union is that way, and I believe that the best way to do that is to take it to an tender supply of resources and right to use them for tenders. That was very clear earlier in the wonderful speech of the chairman of the United States. It ensures that, first of all, the right to use it is equal. Second, it guarantees that the real owners, the people, will gain the right interest in the wealth and the sharing. But what matters most is that the market also ensures that the article does not have to pay more than it can pay. That's what I'm talking about. The code system has completely achieved its original purpose of preventing overfishing the strains, but the distribution of resources has led to the fact that this has been a 30 - year nation war. The public in Iceland feels that the resource has been stolen and wants it returned. We'll see that the counties of the great fishing industry have become the wells of Iceland. In recent years, they have brought enormous sums of money into profit from these companies. Since the collapse of the bank, the profits of these companies have been totaled at $3,100 billion, nearly 50 billion. It's an Icelandic fishing road that's almost using it to buy Iceland. It fuels the dissatisfaction of people, and people experience this as the greatest injustice in Iceland. I'm thinking that we must now get to the bottom of this matter, we have to settle this argument. By traveling the way as chairman of the United States, we have to reach all the main goals we need to reach. [[The president calls.]] But what really matters is that we can settle matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u57	A respectable president. It is just as if we were listening to a talk that doesn't move us forward, where everything is promised by dramatic statements of ways that are completely unrealistic in many ways. As long as we stick to that kind of presentation, we won't be able to continue in this matter. Or what did that whale do? A senator who gave his last talk and wriggling. The chairman of the United States, what did they do during their four year reign, or a six - year session, before this elected period of time? [[Up front.]] Why did they not get on with this case? [[Up front.]] Because the discussion was given, as we witness today, unfortunately. Too important for us to accept this privilege if we are to show some responsibility. Of course, the General has completely failed when it comes to molding a future policy in the United States and trying to extend an act of reconciliation and reconciliation with the nation and stakeholders in this important matter. The problems are obvious. They're staring us in the face. The amount of money that the nation earns from that resource needs to be settled. Salivation requires increasing access to smaller and medium-sized enterprises. Water markets need to be increased, so that fishing companies that have found a shelf on this market are very effective in most of the countries where they can obtain raw materials for their work. It must be established as much as can be done around it. It may not sound so complicated if we look at it this way. I've put up ideas that come up with these views for discussion. I've put them in newspaper articles and other places, and I believe they're related to these views. I ask, Your Honor President, and challenge the generals to stop all these dramatic statements. This quotes the Faeroes, who have not achieved any further results in the fishing grounds achieved by the Icelanders far away. [[The president calls.]] We're not supposed to compare ourselves with this. We are to face up to the facts and try to shape ways, grammatically, to meet them and to settle these issues, not to fail our place repeatedly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u58	Mr. President. Once again, we are discussing the fishing system in the process of election. These cases have been political bitters, at least since 1991 and perhaps earlier. Now we're most concerned with this because of an auction plan made by the Hostages, but it's worth reminding us that this is an experiment made by the Faeroeers, and they haven't decided that this will be their way to the future. We do not see a conclusion as to how the poor people come out of this until they are caught, but they may be at some point next year. Left greens have long considered it important to attack the current fishing system for a more righteous access to the fishing resource. The discussion of how to ensure reasonable interest in their common possessions, whether it is the marine resource or other common holdings, is both important and complex. True, methods and procedures are important, and that is true whether fishing means a way or an auction. It is not that one course of gold guarantees differs from one view, and it is necessary that we find a reasonable way for everyone. For many, hunting costs have been and are a thorn in the eyes of the many, and especially for the owners of industrialized companies, who find a great deal to them. Above all, fishing has been hundreds of billions of dollars in the past few years. This profit is the nation's property. Not to be overlooked is the fact that by the inexpensive distribution of source sources, fish industry owners and current fishing costs are being turned into tokens and have dropped in the current government and are doing little more than equalizing public costs to the seas. It is also important in this discussion to maintain that hunting costs are not taxes, that is, payment for society through the use of the common resources of the nation. The present system is unjust and unfair, and it is totally unacceptable to turn the foundations away from the current civilizations. The auction route alone would not have guaranteed the village, the Deepvogs, and the Capitol a better position. [[The president calls.]] We cannot push this important assignment ahead of us. This can be solved. [[The president calls.]] There's no way. We need to take the reconstituted route. [[The president calls.]] We need to combine different viewpoints.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u59	V.E.G. President. In 2013, when the present government had recently faced the need to pay for hunting fees to collect them. It was done. It was done in a way that the fishing fees at larger productions were raised, on smaller projections dropped. The person standing here hoped in them, after ten of the largest fishing companies in the seas paid them 75% of all fishing fees, that this might be a delay for compression in this article. Unfortunately, this has not occurred because SMEs have been sold and even included, both rural and rural groups. Why? Because the executives of their companies have not considered their business to be up - to - date with the fishing costs that had yet been dropped. This has resulted in much compression in the article, unfortunately. Whether an auction is the right way, I'm not convinced. The day after, four, five, six companies offered the sources of exchange and then sold out of the country, I'm not sure that that's what we want here. What we need to do, however, is to achieve a wide range of solidarity here within the country on how to ensure that the 600 companies working in the marine outways of Iceland and living in different parts of the country will continue to do so. We also know that progress has become a response, so 65% of Iceland's income has been won in an area that is reserved for the South and the West of Snæfells. This is something we have to check on. It is a means of economy that has caused humans to go that way. However, we need to sit down and try to find ways, for there is no one way, to ensure a solidarity among the people and to ensure that a company can be in a natural business throughout the country as well as to ensure that the nation will receive a natural profit from this resource. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u60	A respectable president. No one's talking about quitting a fishing system or about reinitiating overfishing the Icelandic fish stocks. No one is talking about disappearing from the aims of sustainable fishing. No one is talking about achieving the goal of fishing, so we get the most from this product. No one's talking about these things. They are talking about how the sources owned by the public in this country are buying and selling. It's quite remarkable that the head of the Independence Party, the highest. Financial and economic ministers, should have no more faith in a very familiar old system to decide the price, which is free of charge. Does he not trust builders to enter a free market and stand for prices there in the marketplace? It's the highest. Financial and economic ministers really believe that it is better for the government to decide this price? Has he become such a spokesman for state care? I think it's very important. Consider the facts of this matter. The Faeroe Islands exodus of the Barent Sea, 62 k. the kilogram of this auction. We're here to collect in hunting fees, I think 11 bucks. a pound. This is a five-fold difference. To illustrate: There were not many participants there, it was a codvoti in the Barent Sea, north of Norway, this is in the North Sea. There are not very many people here, but I think they'd like to offer the codfish. Not all builders are in the position of going all the way there with their ships. So there were, of course, fewer who shared in this campaign. But let's see the mackerel. There are others who can participate. Of course, it is also possible to design the export so that there is a greater distribution in who can receive the quatane. Entries get 66 bucks. in a free commercial invitation to macrovota. [[The president calls.]] We're gonna take 2.78. It's a 25-fold difference. [[The president calls.]] It's just a free market that's doing this for the Faeroes. Why does the minister not believe that it is possible here?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u61	A respectable president. There's a certain kind of oppression in the peat system. What I've noticed, when I've been traveling around the country and talking to sailors, is that people in many parts of the world have not been able to talk openly about their views simply because of the fear of losing their job and having trouble in other ways. They trace this most direct route to the food policy and the surrounding conditions it has created. You're right. paritaprevir Sóggis Svavarsdóttir said that there are three goals that must be the main part of our policy in a fishing road. First, the use of the resource is to go to the nation; secondly, sustainable use of the resource; and third, based. News I think the sustainable use of the resource will be achieved by means of a sign, whether it is an auction or by the current organisation. So I think goals have been achieved, and I don't see how the auction route would ever put that goal at risk. I conclude that we have reached that goal and will continue to do so even by means of the auction route. In terms of the income to the nation of the use of the resource, I find it very obvious, from the current experience, and, in fact, merely obvious the nature of the case, that the auction route yields more money to the state, which then can be used in various ways, for example, to serve the purpose of number three, which, of course, are the basis of the town. There are many things you can do to avoid problems. As is true today, limitations can be placed on the markets. It allows earmarking of objects, then it is likely with better rules than currently valid, etc. There are many things you can do and must do to reach them. But I don't see that the auction route will in any way go against it. On the contrary, it will create further opportunities and will simply raise more money for the state to meet such views. Most important, I'd like to mention free hand fishing that I'd like to say would make the farmers of my species, who are not very extensive, much of the energy that marks the seabed these days.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u62	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Economic and financial ministers for the speech and also for the urgency. Parliamentaries who participated in the discussion. I heard from the highest. Minister, he wouldn't give much for the deliveries of the Faeroes. Others here have talked about the need for more experience. I'd like to offer the highest. The secretary of finance and economics to attend a meeting on September 8, held by the United States, is open, where members of the United States from the French Parliament and other experts will review their progress and their plans ahead. Then it's spoken as if there's a warrant sale, it's all or nothing. Of course, that is not the case. It is not that way in tender tenders, for all political goals, including policy-making goals, can be achieved by the rules of exporting. But it's already being practiced in Iceland. They're completely private. Now, those assigned to the full bidders may be in their own pockets by selling and renting a quota to the third party. For example, when the government collects only $13 (U.S.) for a pound of cod for the fishing fees, it is necessary to pay the largest amount of fish it can buy. The only change, then, is that the nation itself, the owner of the resource, is the source of sources, and will benefit from it. It's just. One of the advantages of an offer is that rent fees paid for reimbursement will automatically swing by commercial fishing and reduce the likelihood of political intervention for rent prices. Thus, the amount of rent is not based on ecstatic decisions and the owners of the resource, the people of the country, can be sure that they are not saluting one person above another.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-25-140.u63	A respectable president. I think things have been taken out of my words and put in the wrong context. First, I'm going to quote Niclasen Niclasen, former minister of the Faeroe Islands: ▪ People's dream that non-profit companies found it nonsense, at the auction, they got big everything. Those who can afford to lose. The dream of getting the right price turned out to be bullshit. The price was too high, and only the giants who want to keep their boats going could have a quota. One company bought 65% of the quatane. Whether this is a good clue, a good example for us to follow or not, a person must decide for himself. What I did was to point out that the debate about auctions, auctions, or fishing costs is, in fact, a debate about how we approach this goal that we agree on, that there is a need to pay the right price for access to the limited resource. We have here to build a fishing system. It's not a perfect way, but here comes a man, saying, The Marketing Way is much better, much better, and more perfect. When I come up and say that there is no blemish in the way, people come about saying, "Yes, there is a way without blemish, all of which can be solved." Then people come up and say, "We can hold the auction down, lock down the land, and bid out dinners just for this region. " Then I think that men will be out of the way, instead of what we have today, where we have a free, open market, and that is not the State, as was said earlier, to guide those who receive the authority. It was once, so it was Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and Steigur J. Sigfússon, along with other fine senators of their time who decided the free expediency of the wells, paid a vote here in 1990. Since then, there have been purchases and sales. [[The president calls.]] Men have paid for their authority. No government fund has chosen those who have the authority today. I am prepared to continue the discussion on the development of the fishing system, including Based on the fact that we use the market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But humans cannot simply keep their eyes open to the flaws that each way can follow.
