ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u1	A respectable president. I recommend Committee 1. It's a smaller section of the budget board. Perhaps it may sound foreign at the beginning, but as we have noted, there is a somewhat unorthodox situation in which it is not a functioning government sector and the budget is replaced by a functioning government. In the past, we have seen how the committee was involved in making some adjustments. It's a legal committee. I'll talk about it in particular later. Hence, under the committee, only those members of the committee who represent the work directors of the classes. I assume that other members of the budget or other panels measure for their own opinions, even though it is up to us to share in the changes made here and then after times to support them in their votes and then to give the rest of the budget their neutrality. A respectable president. It is not surprising that when we are working as short as we have been doing, there have been some things that have come up at work. The legal committee of the past few days, from the time we were having our technology, and from the lack of time to meditate effectively on various aspects of the budget. Then I'd like to warn you that there may be some adjustments between discussions, simply because of the pressure of time and the technical problems we've had with the situation. This may be dedicated primarily because we are for the first time dealing with a legal system that has recently become important to government funds. As shown at 1 Cor. on the budget bill, no doubt it will take time to introduce a new system and a new mechanism related to it. I will discuss this in my later history. Changes are proposed to the bill's income management programme of 3.8 billion to increase income as well as to the modification proposals for disintegration 2, i.e. Based on litigation and conferences, the financial resources given in total are 8.2 billion as a result. Thus, the total revenue of the year 75.8 billion will be at the top of the network, with a total rate of 751.6, resulting in a total recovery of over 24 billion, which is a slight decrease from 1st. The expenditure of budget bill for 2017 is a major increase in total. A significant discussion has been made. The budget of the cost development here is becoming; the actual increase in state funds is tens of billions. The source of such evolution can be a source of anxiety. But we believe that on the outer edge, or at least 1st small part, we're getting to the outer edge of the budget we're dealing with here. Hv. The budget had the unconventional procedure for the previous year - the bill is unusually late due to the general election and how late the assembly was - that the previous practice has not been held. The budget is about time and reviews. So we went primarily to reporters who were the Secret Bank of Iceland and the Hag Service, State Reservation, Business Association, and ASI, along with the Union of Iceland. These were the guests who came and discussed the budgetary committee and followed their reviews, working to prepare the discussion on the budget bill. In addition, the great change was made that only a small number of other members came to the budget. We had a special meeting with the Department of Internal Affairs and Vega, then the Department of Health and Hospital. This may be in their spirit the emphasis later on our making adjustments. On the basis of these budgets and this budget bill, see page 5 of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach? 2 of our committee party and, in fact, is the frame of budget bill for the next year, which is in short, so that the future forecasts will be one of the longest consecutive economic growths in modern economic history in Iceland. Every analysis and all the narratives we've had in play say that the growth of economic growth and the increase in economic growth is just finely stable. It doesn't stand on the legs of bread. But it covers a number of aspects in our national environment to the outside. We're seeing significant growth in private consumption, let's see in the last few months a significant increase in economic growth measured by 10%, if I remember correctly. The executives of the budget set up 4.4% of interest during 2017. The results for 2016 are about 4.8%. There's no unemployment here. Here's a growing investment. In fact, the investment is closely linked to big business and tourism, along with ships and airplanes. The growth of housing investments has been quite some and was very much discussed in the work of the Committee on how weak we build our economic and construction forecasts. Is it perhaps one of the factors that we need in a more careful strategy to take much more seriously, how we can predict the development of a building, whether a job house or an apartment house? Because, naturally, there is a significant impact on government policy. I mentioned at the outset that the procedure of the committee had been unorthodox. Not only was that short time but we were working for the first time under the new laws on public finances. At the beginning of the story, I want to know that the change in government financial policies and financial preparation has not been achieved by all. When I'm all told, I'm going to try to explain it. In recent years, we have received many sources and visitors from rural society and other parties. The budget board, but because of the changing process where we actually prepare a budget bill each year with a spring plan, a national budget set in the spring; the discussion that has taken place in the autumn to this point, in the spring, is much more at home. It may be reasonable to conclude that some people do not realize the fundamental change. But I think it's learning like other things, but this is the big change. When discussing a national financial programme to 46.5 years in the spring, i.e. Congress proposals are laid there on the basis of the changes we will agree to make each time and budget in the fall, in effect, to reflect the spring plan and the priorities laid there. In the future, the Work Committee in the fall should be primarily to compare a accordion of a government budget with a variation from it displayed in a financial bill. There is also another way to provide funds for individual projects and institutions. The financial bill now lies for itself, but then individual institutions, lawsuits, and topic areas are divided into a body of bodies with a financial bill. And it's also a first-time procedure that we now vote not to vote for the individual institutions but to a subject. Changes create a sound for each subject. Of course, these are all the things that are going to be pinched and shaped. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. A financial committee has driven us to a number of problems, or we should say things that we need to do better, answer, and adopt in a new work ethic. What an unusual situation it is to have a budget that does not depend on much of it! It may also be quite mature for the high Council to deal with it once. I just want to say that it's a real challenge for everyone on the budget board, but I think we can say that each of us can put our experience deeper into that work. In view of this, it is proper to note that the suggestion, which is spoken of in smaller detail, does not necessarily reflect the emphasis of the political parties that are written under it, i.e. The categories that then appoint the management in this particular case function as a minority government. The emphasis on making changes need not reflect the political emphasis of their classes, rather than that of others who are involved in these adjustments. Changes are a product in a long discussion and negotiation process. It is important that we keep this in mind when we consider some outstanding adjustments that there have been some viewpoints, various emphasis, but, of course, there is no room for the most comprehensive policy issues of individual volunteers or classes. On the other hand, I insist that the emphasis we put into our making of changes goes very well with the past election campaign. Basically, we make adjustments in four areas of matter; because of health, transportation, law enforcement, and education. We who went through the campaign in the fall - I think I can say that each of us spoke a lot about the emphasis in those seminars. It should be respected, therefore, that this is to say that there were certain changes that the nation did not come with the majority government to change there. I'd like to finally emphasize that when people want to change the financial policy, when they want to emphasize the structure of the infrastructure specifically, health or education or other, it becomes a more important part of it each time that they must first establish it by government policy, which is then the policy of a new government, which, in effect, will take over the course of their choice and which, in effect, means how they're going to put up a fiscal bitch, a state political bitch, at the vote of which, prepares how they're going to finance their individual projects. I mentioned earlier that there are significant changes in our proposals. The bill contains a substantial increase in expenses. We also discussed this quite a bit in the past. Legal Committee, i.e. The risk of thawing and the unfortunate consequences of raising expenses in this way. I'd like to say that we were very aware of that assignment and our responsibilities. I think we can honestly say that when a council is in such a way that we can make budgets for the next year, with no more share, because it is primarily a duty of the council and members of Congress that there are financial laws at this time, we cannot forget these risk factors that we also have to remember which are negative factors, such as overdoing and overheating the economy, etc. It should also be noted that the emphasis we make on changing proposals is to the point that we do not have an overexploitation complex. There are many opinions about how we manage these matters, but I only wanted to say that we were very aware of our responsibility in these matters. I say again: This is a concluded agreement, not in any way the policy of any political party that will crystallize there. Other political groups involved here will no doubt focus on their own priorities, but this is a very serious consideration. I mentioned the four priorities that we make special coverage of the changes in transport proposals - I'm not gonna list them in order of importance - but we're going to make changes because of transportation. In this regard, we may first stress the need to get closer to the maintenance of transport workers. Our focus is to increase the amount of money available for transport workers whether it is, and not just, the long - term traffic security, or the interests of the local population, but also to save the valuables we have put in the transport system in recent years. We also offer proposals to ensure that the next major project on soil can be attacked, such as the implementation of animal soils and implementations. And that a new Western island vector, General, can be negotiated, as well as other important transport workers and their structure. I would especially like to draw attention to the fact that a budget doesn't make any priority list of individual transport projects, though we would like to continue these major projects, General and Animal follows, simply because at the time of the bill, people's fears about continuing the project that I wanted to do it all the time and trying to maintain a certain mistake were due to the failures of the bill. Now, though, we are building a tight foundation for it. However, the main focus of the budget is this: to attack transport and transport infrastructure on the grounds of traffic safety and security in the road system. We can, in itself, pick up major projects on such projects as a road cross on a Smokey Way, a ringway, etc. Also, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Road program is setting up a project so that we can build up a way we've been waiting a long time on the drawing table, but we've had to step in the past few years for various reasons. Also, roads have been waiting very long and have not continued because there has been a lack of work permit. I specifically mention the Gufudal Squadron. Whether we call Kappus Road or other roads, it is also important that when the road sets up its projects to make sure that it does not cause the offer for a certain task to make them more expensive. It can be adjusted in some way. However, according to our information, there is little effort on soiling. This was about the transport program. We also agree with the agreements that have been published to the partners involved in the country's individual ports. We expect some 700 million more to go on top of what is in the bill for rejections, the renewal of steel bridges, sea defenses, and such factors. I also need to understand that the suggestions we make on transportation, health care, and other matters are linked in a specific way with the suggestions we make for changing the budgets we will discuss later today. Wait a minute. Senators consider this in context. A number of transport projects are due to the effects of trauma, natural disasters. We are also responding. Overall, although transport is about 4.6 billion on the bill, the number is slightly higher when considering these factors. We are in the hands of fiber optics campaigns that we have been working on in recent years, and Iceland's project has a photocommunication here as published in the spring plan. We're making a move on law enforcement. Let's say 400 million go to promote law enforcement in the country. We know the discussion of law enforcement and the importance of the police'ability to stand firm and that we resume our building work. We're waiting for a long-term police program. That's why I think it's premature that we're stuck with the amount of money we're going to build law enforcement in the next few years, but we're going to wait for a law enforcement plan to do it. But we will draw attention to the growth of tourists because we have gathered police officers around the country and also in the capital area, there are large areas of territory that do not have a sense of security, which I think is a very serious matter. We go to 100 million. K. a new proposal for the National Reservation operation. It has been observed before in the year 1st. this bill that there is uncertainty about the income of the CAP that it has had in recent years. Another 75 million. K. ... ina contributiontotheSecretlandService. In all, the National Guard will receive some 175 million suggestions. We deal extensively on academic matters in our emphasis. It was the decision of a legal committee to look at university, a change of 1.3 billion. The emphasis on the subject is attributed to the dissension of the committee's views. But I'm going to say that it may be a problem with a new budget that we don't make the amount of money on certain institutions. Hence, these are the tasks that are considered under emphasis. The Ministry itself is also suggested to disseminate from the daily usage of pots. The Ministry can then emphasize that, of course, the Committee has discussed, and the recommendations in transportation, education, and health matters have been based on good cooperation with some departments, so we feel that they are professionally strong and professional. Only with regard to education, university, and high school. Our emphasis on change is on a team in high school and industry, and we can finally move forward again in that field. At the university, we know many of the university problems. Colleges like other institutions have had to go through cutbacks in recent years, but they have slowly come back to the weather, and whether there are universities in the capital area or in the region, we look to them. We'll mention some, not all of them noses, e.g. not Bifrost University, which is certainly one of the schools that we want to look forward to applying the funds we make a suggestion for priced for university service. This is true in our case. A legal committee to do this and look to all colleges. But, eventually, we will discuss the university college program with particular attention to Iceland's Art University and his business problems. We make adjustments to suggest that there will be a special effort on his business. It is inevitable to look to Lake Saturday as well. We'll discuss this in particular on the committee opinion that because the University of Iceland went down there, we know a lot of the discussions, so we're suggesting that money be put to work on Lake Saturday again. We discussed health matters extensively. As I mentioned at the outset, the Hospital and I were given a financial committee, and we covered the hospital's operating position thoroughly. We make numerous and varied suggestions for changing the health - care system, which is not about Land Hospital itself, but about preparing measures that will in the long run solve the management problems of many health institutions. I'll wait again. Senators should remember that we are also adding this to this year's budget and the bill to the final budget. With our suggestions, we feel that we have brought the National Institutes of Health to the zero, which is very important that we have been able to do at this point when new government laws take effect, since they alone will significantly change the control of institutions and outdoors. We are also looking to our settlements. Whether we look to the Southland or to health centers on the West, there has been a growing peak in many regional health institutions. It should be mentioned before I have a medical discussion that it was specifically mentioned, during the contributions of the budgetary bill to 1. Um, that it could not have been installed for a new payment system. A financial committee proposes to finance this payment system, but by means of the previously discussed change, the system that the payment system will need to be used in, computers, and databases will not be ready at that time. Therefore, the system induction is delayed by one month, which leads back to a small amount of money needed to do so. These suggestions on health care will then be added to a very extensive project taken during the year, which significantly alters the working environment of nursing homes and is now associated with a matter of assembly, for example. Penitentiary and that kind of thing. This year, therefore, there has been a significant stage in improving the nursing environment. Of course, it is our greater challenge to cope with the growing age of the people. A respectable president. I will not, in itself, follow a detailed talk about other aspects of our development but will only mention that there are, of course, many less suggestions, such as the support of various institutions, art institutions, and cultural institutions all around the country that we need to improve and that we need to take special care of the next budget. It has to be said that it is too loose in our ropes, although I'm not going to say in some way that it is working that it has made a mistake. But we need to get it into more solid shapes. In the beginning, I also concluded that there will always be some mistake when working is fast in a short period of time. That is why there is an article that we now make a transition to 5th parre. as in the new budget bill, we're getting 6. Identation again. Then we need to review it and other aspects of our discussion. And it will result from the approval of other members of Congress today, hopefully, that we need to change the budget for 3. ome, e.g. because the bill expects a higher fee from the government's pay, but the result will be the Congress on Penitentiary as a law. I just want to say that, and there's nothing more to say, that the work of the past few weeks, which has been much and hard to deal with, is in my mind exemplary. It's been fine. A solid trust has been established in members of the Parliament who are irreverently precious. I don't have much political experience. I, however, know a lot of conflict and political conflict. But under these circumstances, I think that the council had their best interests at heart and showed that this too can be done in this way. So I thank members especially for the cooperation in the last few weeks and days. To be able to get this thing to this place, here into the chamber, in such peace as we make, is not the work of one man, that is the work of the whole group. A respectable president. I've finished my story.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u2	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a budget bill for 2017, submitted by a temporary, transitional management board. There is no greater part here, so it is only natural that all classes work together on one recommendation. A deal was made with the intention of making a deal, and it was successful. It's supposed to be a celebration. Hv. The seven committee directors and groups agreed on, on average, to place extra money on health systems, law enforcement, transportation, education systems, and the total amount of about 12 billion dollars. Yet, the rest of the budget continues to be less than 24 billion. The emphasis on the future in this bill is on dealing with emergency health problems and education. Because of recent economic conditions, there has been a shortage of maintenance and the necessary increase in funds for various issues. In some areas, however, it may be apparent that in the current situation, members of the Parliament must agree on compromise and look to where the shoe is most likely to work and to what is urgent. With regard to education, it is quite disappointing that the policy of the Scientific and Technical Council for the university should not be followed. The good news, however, is that the Governing Body is now working to determine how to further the goal and how to work on it in the long run. I understand that a target is to update the Council's policy back in the spring, so there is room and opportunity to provide lines for the budget of 2018, with the aim of ensuring the quality and competitiveness of Icelandic university. Thus, with the direction of the Council, the legislatator will be guided to follow, and representatives of the Bjarts future will not compromise. A bright future also highlights the right of the emergency problems the university faces and meets the increase in schools. At the same time, it is appropriate to correct the inconsistencies that the National Institute of Arts has faced compared with other universities of the country. We emphasize a contribution to high school, especially in order to strengthen study. During adjustments, we suggest an increase of some 400 million to the legal group, which is good. One of the last misdeeds that have not been addressed is the health system. There are many things to take into account, both in traditional maintenance projects of real estate, equipment purchases, and the construction of services. According to the adjusted proposal, next year, contributions to health will increase by 5.2 billion more than what is expected in the budget of the management board. In the present situation, everything cannot be corrected and added, but there is a great need to address a revised system that will not be able to do the most necessary to the extent possible to which it is possible to maintain it in a society with all means. The representatives of the British future will not yield to the task and will consult with representatives of other councils and institutions under the system. I'm not going to go to the exact ones of these changes, both because they have been well explained and also because of the reason I listened to the recording of the Senate talks from last year on, and it's kind of the same discussion. In transport, transport support and the need for transport have been greatly lacking. No one is aware that significant injections are needed to reverse these developments and to make up for what has been done in that area. The plan of changing the budget is to place 5.5 billion dollars. to the jury beyond what was already planned for the bill. The General now agreed in the fall of Parliamentary DG, which includes a discrepancy between an approved financial programme and a transport program of about 15 billion years. In 2017 and about 13.5 billion dollars. in 2018. The general body of elders needs to improve their work ethic and make sure that transportation plans will be in accordance with local budgets, as this includes: The objective of new laws on public finance is to strengthen the financial administration of the State. We would like to point out that large investments in an animal - pine tunnel and in terms of purchase of a new war planet should be made financially rich in a long-term financial programme, so the General Assembly should not be forced to add financial support for such projects. It is also important to take into account that the Agency is already developing into a European labour market, the harder it is to secure projects and oers made on a variety of projects, and they are considerably higher than cost programmes are expected. Therefore, there is good reason to come to the earth with caution regarding costly projects so as not to cause further expansion with the related inflation, which then affects all of us. We know all too well from the past, and such mismanagement is to be avoided. During the time that a financial committee has had to agree on the change of plans, I have been surprised by some things. I'd like to mention one thing I've mentioned before. I called for an overview of government investments, government investments, investments of rural society, how many apartments are in building this year, for the next five years, hotel apartments in construction, and other investments on a schedule, such as employment buildings and such. Of course, rural communities are in full supply, are preparing for the distribution of entire industrial areas, are in job buildings, are building thousands of apartment buildings, are being built in gymnasiums, and are being built for nursing homes. There is one Landsspike on the drawing table and some major industrial activity at Keflavík Airport for tens of billions. There's an enormous sensation in society. It does not fill us with confidence that such information is not available. Everyone agrees on their importance. I'm going to work on that during this term, and I'm going to find a way to draw that information out in one place and make it available. It is important not only for us at Parliament but also for us, for example, to observe the signs and performances of the community. Industrial organization, Secret Bank, Haustús, The Union of Icelandic rural society, et cetera. who want to look at this information in order to synchronize and look at the tokens in our economy. The financial bill is the largest conference case of every winter and lays the basis for financing of society's infrastructure. Thus, it must be considered a bit dangerous, and perhaps irresponsible, that such information is not available when other such expenditures are made, especially on the basis of 13. Act on the General Assembly, which states that a budget should oversee the implementation of budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u3	A respectable president. The budget today is certainly done under unusual circumstances when there is no government or more in the council. I would like to say that it is most enjoyable to see how the council has been able to come together in this important matter, meet here for all the overall changes that all classes face, including. There is considerable increased emphasis on health, education, and transportation. I think it may be said that my experience as a new senator is very satisfying by this process. Hopefully, there is some kind of work that we can do better for the future, where there will be only a broader agreement on the main focus of each year's budget. I have to say, though, that in view of the way we have worked in this case, a slightly higher degree of counterargument was achieved in the bill. It is clear that the expenditures of the budget are growing a great deal between the years and is still being added by the changes we agree on here. It would have been preferable that a larger part of it would have been in the form of priorities, i.e. that we had found some surgery somewhere else. But that is in the very context of what is right in keeping in mind that we are now in a tremendous economic flux. We're seeing the logs in a lot of places. As a result, we may be more likely to be at the upper limit of our endurance. That is when the government's affairs are severely tested. Unemployable employment is at the lowest level, a business hall has been good, but the trade market is growing a lot and fast this year, reaching another hundred billion. The crown's gang has grown much more than reasonably strong and already greatly shifting to basic functions, such as fishing roads and tourism, which have only contributed to the great success. That's why it's extremely important for us to be careful. Because of this expansion situation and the uncertainty of the state's affairs, they have kept the interest high, which, in turn, encourages further funding of the crown. I think everyone here is aware that economic growth, driven by the growth of exports, is extremely important to us. That's exactly what's been so good about the current Icelandic economy, how different it is from other comparable levels. We're seeing the economy drive from the exports year after year. Still, we can say that in spite of their high order, they continue to thrive and live up to the majority of economic growth this year. What is also pleasant to see is how Icelandic consumers, households, have learned from the last economic collapse and a new year - long trip now to pay off debt and strengthen their positions and to stand strong for years. The same can be said of a modern - day job that has used this much up - to - date period to further strengthen its position. So in many respects, we are very strong. There is, however, a measure of concern as to how little permanential financial matters are in these circumstances. In effect, we may not have learned enough there. We're looking at budgets that increase annual spendings for about one 70 billion dollars, or 10% of the primary financial expenditures, and more than that, despite the repeated warning from the bodies of the bodies of the state's spending spending spending. This is something we must take to heart. Although we in less than 3 percent of the Environment is fully responsible for the changes made here, which certainly add further to the expansion, we once again sharpen the importance of our maintaining more material resources. We also make sure that there are often opportunities for convenience in these times, and what we would have liked to see more evidence of in the budget is still more emphasis on the subsidies of the state's debt under these favorable conditions, e.g. by selling property, and thus would be reduced the enormous burden of interest on which the state's funds live and have lived since collapse. Sadly, according to the current five - year financial program, we will continue to live on this interest load. That is in the context of which we take this bill for discussion. We add from our previous discussion about 10 billion in expenses. I just want to review it in my case after why we support the emphasis being found there. What I would like to do before considering it is that we here will return the first funds based on a new government legislation on public finances. Although I'm certainly coming to this job for the first time, I've been watching it over the years and I would've wanted to see more changes, if I'm telling you right now, in the Congress's work and procedure. I think we need to learn a lesson from the way we are approaching this issue now. You can, for example. It is hard to believe that in preparing a spring plan or a five - year budget, there seems to be very little material discussion. I think that's what we're learning. In this regard, the budget is to be conducted, with a budget planned for the next year. Money such as it comes to the council in the fall should take minimal changes in order to maintain the stability and stability of new legislation. This is of utmost importance that we keep in mind, in line next year when we begin a discussion on a new financial program. Sadly, in spite of new legislation, work is a bit old. In the fall of this year, they will need to mention the agreement of the Parliament on a new transport program, which included an additional 15 billion over a new financial release program adopted by the Parliament a few weeks earlier. It involves a lack of restraint, a measure of lack of control over the practical arrangements we need to correct. The first to mention the health issues, which are an extremely important category of subjects, is when individual emphasis is made on making changes to the one presented here. There's extra expenses from around 1st. About 5 billion. In addition, the needs of various institutions are being met in need. Overall, health costs are increasing by 17 billion per year. There are nearly 10% of the total expenses for this category, which is important. We know all the challenges ahead, how much more money is needed for the health system, both in order to restore it as the financial resources of the years ahead and as well as to meet the challenges ahead of us as we look at the people's aging and the costs that follow. That's where we need to think in the long run. This is a very important step. They provide considerable additional funds for the hospital to help support the hospital's operating base and deal with the problems in which it is maintained, as well as to other institutions that can support him in the efflux problems he faces. Is an extremely important step there, in which I know that there is a good start in the seminary. This is a group of paintings that we will have to strengthen even more in the coming years, but this first step is quite rhymed with the emphasis we have had at Strategic and stressed in the leading of an election. Sadly, though, this took a little effort and may need better planning. We would have liked to see the extra funds suggested to pay attention on mental health matters. It is clear that this is where we have to make a great deal of improvement, and we have far too little ambition for that sort of thing. Of course, we should bring this important group of subjects under the payment of a government fund in exactly the same way as other basic health services in our health system. To us, this is probably one of the biggest investments in health - care services in Iceland today, for we know, of course, that a greater ambition in our mental health, in particular, increased support for young people who have problems with these things, is of great importance in the future and can save large expenditures, as well as large increases in the quality of life for the individual. On welfare matters, these budgets are a pretty good deal to be taken care of. The total budget is increased by nearly 30 billion when it has been taken into account that less than 17 billion expenses drop from year to year because of its completion. Here are the highest changes adopted during a recent Congress on Social Security. It is a very important step that the restoration supports one's mind. However, it is an incomplete process in the case of disability. It is important for the council to deal with it in the coming year and to be clear that there is an increase in expenses for us. But the more important thing is that we achieve a certain change of mind in our struggle in the field, that we place a big increase in the focus of employment recovery, the quality of function, instead of the disability of energy assessment, in line with the emphasis of the workforce's parties. Been fighting for years. It is of concern that nearly 10% of people aged 18 susceptibility are accepting disability benefits today. This rate has tripled over the last three decades. It is enormously costly for society, but it is just as much a reduction in life for individuals, and we should be able to do so much better in preventing the loss of disability because of temporary problems. Sadly, it is simply in my mind that our present micropower system appears to be built to graduate people with disability rather than try to prevent them from ending there and helping them to work again. Education offers suggestions for a substantial increase in expenses, a total of less than 2 billion dollars. There are 400 million of them. K. magazines for high school and about 1,200 million. K. Paid to the university. These are all very important tasks to consider. On the other hand, I am disappointed that we had wanted to see more emphasis on university, that we were taking further steps toward making a university contribution to each university student comparable to what is going on in our neighboring countries. I think it's very important that we take this party closer to the next semester. Transport is adding less than 5 billion dollars. and the importance of this subject will not be reduced. It contains an additional 2.5 billion. I think we can all agree that this team has been really financing in recent years. With large increases in traffic traffic around the country's highways along with large increases in tourism, it is extremely important to add handsome ones. It turns to the safety of travelers, and it is a pleasure to see such a handsome step taken in these funds. In addition, a number of additional projects are under attack. I'm not going to minimize the importance of these projects, but it is worth reminding you that this may not be the best time to add so much to new projects, except for the obvious fact that it is pretty clear that a government fund may not get quite the best results in today's economic situation. Finally, 400 million are proposed. K. additional temporary contributions to law enforcement and 100 million. K. in a temporary contribution to the National Guard, both of our urgent duties and of anything that we give our heart to the restoration work. That's all I was going to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u4	Mr. President. The financial bill discussed here is not a neutral document. It's a political document, a financial policy and a government budget that lost more part in the last election. However, under the exotic circumstances now at the General Assembly when a council is active without any development of a new government, the World Commission has discussed a budget bill of 2017. The committee, with no definition of more things at the Council supporting the bill, decided to try to reach a common conclusion so that budgets can be set in 2017. The conclusion is that the budget board met with an agreement on changing the bill, most of which have to do with increased health, education, law enforcement, and transportation costs. These changes are essential to the failure of the Continent to vote against the bill. They're on the side of the bill, but members of Congress, who claim to be a functioning government, will allow the bill to proceed with the changes referred to above. If the budget board had not come together, and each class would have carried out its changing proposals, both on the pay and income side, it is difficult to imagine what the situation in the council would be in that situation and what the result of a government fund would have been after payment. Thus, the arrangement guarantees that it ensures the necessary hold of the funds of the state and that the decisions made by the General Assembly are related to the services of government, government, and other governments, despite the development of a new majority government. According to members of the United Nations, it is necessary to create a new section at the General Assembly to create a new financial program that provides more solid support for the welfare system, collects higher resource costs, and improves the standard of living for ordinary people. Since the fall of 2008, we have put forth great effort to work economic stability, and for it, it is of utmost importance that the government's national financial policy and the Bank of Money work together to reduce economic swings, the Duke of the bus in the same direction. Hence, it is important now that budgeting the budget represents a income supply of 1% of GDP, as agreed by financial policy. It was clear to the approval of the General Assembly by the end of May that the weaknesses of financial policy and financial programmes were on the income side and came because the government had reduced various taxes and fees during the term. Fishing costs were reduced considerably, the wealth tax was taken off, and the energy tax was also reduced considerably. The equalisation of the income tax system was reduced compared to that of tourists given off the merit tax. At that time a special bank tax was collected that went directly to the loan agencies to subsidize the prices of some homes, though most of the richest debts. This was done even though there is a great need for investment in the transport system and in the quality of the school system. This course has not been reversed by the financial bill, and the United States severely criticizes this priorities. The United States has stressed that tax and tax changes will be made so that there will be room for the restoration of the health system, better schools, transportation systems, and law enforcement services, as well as for those who rely on insurance agencies and children's families in the country. With the changes made by a budget all behind us, it is far from the fact that all of the Union's emphasis is being carried out. However, this will result in the failure of the Conspiracy to counter the payment of the budget. The government will win a new course and make another plan that will be taken by the Council. The financial bill is based on two draft proposals, financial policy, and financial agendas adopted in August. Since their arrival at the end of April, the law was accepted as well as the judicial arrangement that resulted in financial evaporation. Therefore, it is necessary to go to more income harvests but is done in this bill to support the income base of the state fund and to improve the workload. Reducing inflation and securing well-being is essential. Mr. President. The situation of the hospital is that there is reason to worry about the safety of patients if there is no rapid improvement in the coming years. Patients have increased as a result of the population's growing age, but the development of hospital and health care facilities has not been accompanied by this trend over the past few decades. The contributions laid out in the budget for hospital services will not be sufficient to keep lost from what is now and will therefore be prescribed for major cuts. It will not be a delight, for that conclusion would be in a lamentable contradiction to the appeal of the public and the campaign of all classes. The financil board makes changes proposals for the 2017 budget for the increase in land management budget, but the hospital's problems are also addressed in the 2016 budget as a result of unscheduled budgets and last budgets 2015. In addition to proposals that work on the hospital's graduation problem, a financial committee believes that there is no need to be a cut - down in the hospital service in 2017. However, it is clear that there will be no room for essential building, and our business will continue to be very difficult. It's very bad. It'll have to be better. Part 4 reminds us that many things have been discussed about doctors'status in Iceland, the concern that young doctors will not return after school. The situation of nurses is no less disturbing. In the next three years, approximately Seven hundred and seven hundred and ninety-nine nurses of retirement. Instead, only 450 graduates, many of whom will choose other jobs. Other classes that are mostly filled by women also require government attention, such as radiologists, physical therapists, and biotechnology experts. Even now, there is a need to take action to promote the university in these areas and to assume the financial costs involved. In addition, a financial committee offers suggestions to support the management of other health institutions in 2017, the amount for the unscheduled 2016 budgets and the 2015 final budget. A total of except the proposals for health care as a whole, which is also about 5 billion, in order to reduce health - care management at the remainder of the budget bill. In the event of an election, much was discussed about the cost of patient participation, and the Conspiracy has spoken of taking big and progressive steps to make health care free of charge. The payment system agreed at the end of the spring convention and should be established on February 1, next year, does not include all health care. Dental surgery, psychiatry, travel costs, and aid tools fall, e.g. Outside the system. It would be preferable that all medical services and medications fell under one payment system. By the law, the physical, occupational, and speech training was dropped under the general system, which is truly improving. However, the maximum cost to health care costs is all too high, especially in view of the lack of full medical costs. Inevitably, an animal or a health - care unit may object to the fact that it will be abused and that it will be given the opportunity to control it. In this context, it can be noted that if patients delay medical and other health care care, the cost of community care is very high. Such control is primarily directed against those who do not have medical care. The price controls them from going to a doctor sooner than possibly too late. For those with sufficient financial resources, there is no need to think twice because of the payment and thus the payment has no control over them. The Committee of Health Committee's Committee on Health Insurance, which discussed the payment systems of individuals in the medical system last spring. until the Commission assessment was that the bill called for additional funding for a new payment system. The committee mentioned in the committee's opinion that she felt that she had the confidence that raising funds would bring the budget of 2017 so that the maximum health insurance would not exceed 50 of you. K. every year. The budget's not in the bill. A financial committee responds to this and makes a adjustment that depends on no one paying more than 50 of you. K. in the medical expenses of a year, but also in terms of cost estimates, there is a delay in the implementation of the law. Mr. President. The financial bill does not take into account a very important body of Congress, which is a transport plan. Change proposals for transport were agreed together with the Council and the Council. Parliaments had worked hard to achieve compromises on a better transport plan. V.E.G. The financier did not take into account the agreement of the fiscal bill that the transport programme was adopted by all paid votes of the budget by changing proposals for about 15 billion dollars. It is unacceptable that the execution of the Agency does not comply with the approval of the Generals. Thus, the bill needs contributions for the needed maintenance and development of roads in many parts of the country, for public transport and ports, for research and design of land on the West, and for research in the Northlands of Grynns of Hornfjörður. A financial committee won its new proposals so that whatever the road has made a commitment will be financed and more than 8 billion will be paid. continued to maintain the road in 2017. Some 4.6 billion dollars is proposed. additional transport initiative at 2.5 billion dollars. a donation is a maintenance of roads, but it is also added to necessary roads, ports, and water management, as well as air management. They look for adjustments in transport plans. Not all 15 billion people are expected in the program, but they meet the previously approved budget. Child welfares in this country have become almost like the strength to the poor and very different child reforms in other parts of the North. The aim appears to be that child reform will be supported only by the most earned families, and it follows the International Cash Fund's proposal to revise the child - reform system. The sea advised the government to simplify the system and direct payments to low - income agencies, with a higher rate of decline compared to pay. The fund also suggested that single - parent families be paid no higher than domestics. In this way only one fixed money will be paid for children under 18 years of age and with no more than three children. Such an arrangement is nowhere else known in the North. A section of government's criticalness for taking such counsel into account. We are amazed that the government has consulted the World Bank on child development when it comes to the Norwegian states. In general, the benefits are not related to income, and their goal is to match the status of children with those who do not share children. Unemployable child reforms also reduce female independence and employment participation less than income - related benefits. Young families in the North are concerned with the support of child support, and their equal role is important for society. The Norwegian child - reform system is a worthy role model for the children and their parents. Children's families need to be put on the line in this country and raised the child - welfare program so that others will enjoy them. It is expected in the work programme that in the coming years, expenses for growth will gradually decrease as the income of households increases and the level of debt increases. There will be an annual increase in the financial and voluntary limits in the system, allowing the overall contribution to the system to remain the same as the real value. Along with the so - called correction during the last term, the government reduced growth reforms, lost child benefits, and even made the money cuts more cruel. The people who fell within the definition growth reforms they pay slightly lower, but growth improvements are much less effective. Many homes are thus left behind with much less provision. The idea of improving growth is to increase the resources of those with low income, medium income, and share in the high interest costs laid on people by deciding to keep the least independent currency in the world. This equation wants the government that lost more part in the last elections gradually erases, but it considers a reduced 4th to be much delirium, and it certainly does not benefit people with low income or medium income. The problem of housing markets is increasing. Young people cannot leave their parents'homes because prices for housing and rent are too high and apartments are small. People who want to have their own homes are increasingly competitive with companies that provide lodging services for tourists. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to engage in the construction of more generaleb sprays than stock contributions in the budget bill are expected. The minimum goal is to build 1,000 common rented apartments a year, but it has to be added about 2 billion dollars. in 2017. In agreement with the last agreements, it was agreed to provide stock strength for 600 apartments a year. That is why the budget bill expects additional financial resources for stocks where it is clear that a 2016 strategy did not last. An additional addition is not expected in 2017, but a smaller fourth part reminds us that the Common Union strongly stresses that the General Assembly guarantees that there will be a promise of contributions made to solve the housing problems of less income households. The high school situation has been difficult in the past few years. In high school years before collapse, there was a high school economy. So when maintenance of a crash was required, the cut of very little fat was needed. The problem of the high school system must be met, as it is in the next three years of school. A financial committee thus proposes 400 million. K. will be provided to improve the work of high school. The university position looks bad, and if changes are not made, the university will have to reduce the number of student courses and/or the number of students. The continued lack of funds will have a major negative impact on scientific work, progress in employment and Iceland's competitiveness. A financial committee offers suggestions that meet some of the university appeals recently, but more is needed if effective. The increase in tourists not only puts pressure on the road system and the health system but also on the law enforcement system in the country. It is very important to strengthen the law to handle transport-related issues as well as to protect the citizens of the country. A financial committee suggests an increase in contributions to the police by 400 million. K. In addition, there will be an increase of 100 million dollars in the weekend service. K. It is important that the land's resources use to improve the country's standard of living and to support the funding of a powerful welfare system. It requires special attention that the state collects fair resources from fishing and energy and collects income from tourists, both for the construction of tourist attractions and other costs for their arrivals, such as in the health system, in the police and in the saving work and in the maintenance of roads. To ensure a fair profit from the resources, you need to look at the exports of resources, the pressures of new electricity or environmental taxes, and the exception of tourists from the general value of the tax level. The letter should enter rural society, in parishion and Health Systems and other infrastructures that are useful to people of all countries, as the resource is all of us. Travel is only a short period of time now one of the country's basic activities, but no one is properly in charge of the management committees and is controlling the development or assessing the impact of their domains, such as the impact on other sectors, real estate prices, and expansion. Governments seem unable to perform the important role of establishing a policy on how to make the most practical and best possible development in the future, assessing the costs of tourism management, and what is considered to be the preferred economic environment for large growth. Without immediate action, Iceland's reputation as a tourist destination is likely to be damaged, that of tourists and investments in this article will not lead to bad financial consequences. At the same time that the number of tourists is greatly increasing, tax revenue is reduced by each of them. The article is allowed to grow in a revolutionary way, and tourists pay at the same time a tax - tax - an - tax - level bill. If that exception had disappeared, about 10 billion would be provided. ... ina treasureofthecreet. We need to control our development and create general management conditions that give weight for maintenance, health care, and law enforcement. Thus, tourists pay higher consumption taxes to build up as a new article and as a means to the population throughout the country. The government's inaction during the last term is completely unacceptable. As a result, the cost for people is high, while tourists get discounts. The problem is, there is no way we're getting involved in the budget bill, but we're waiting for the next government. Mr. President. In terms of the government's opinion, it is necessary for the United States to regulate the level of employment, but at the same time, the health and welfare system will be enhanced by means of a targeted financial intervention. One thing that has stood in the way of reconciliation is the unsuspecting and cutting of welfare matters. That this reconciliation is not just a wealth of state, but a community, everything, employees, and professionals. This is an important and truly reason for all to make peace with them and to draw closer to new employment in the preparation of collective agreements. Finally, Mr. President, it is, of course, that during the past few days, there has been a somewhat unusual situation at a financial committee, meeting long and strict. People have succeeded, but they have also come to terms with the problem. I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee for the cooperation and the members of each committee. It was a critical and challenging cycle, but it concluded with a resolution that can be accepted. Of course, we expect a new government to take up its policy and to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u5	A respectable president. I wanted to say thank you. A senator to the Chairman and the Committee of All, on behalf of the rest of us who were not members of the committee. I know and believe that it's been hard and hard work, but I'm glad to see it landed this way and we're putting the budget together on this council. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u6	Mr. President. I want to thank you for this. I think we're more experienced. Of course, not everyone is happy, and the person standing here is not pleased with the conclusion or ready to say that it is enough and that there is no need to be done better. It certainly is not. I think that's how we all feel. But we were able to land this case, and that's quite an accomplishment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u7	President. A fifth of the rights to the aims proposed by a financial committee in a joint adjustment form in the budget. Now there are special circumstances at council, employment, and no clearer aspects. Even so, or perhaps because of that, the committee worked together very well and wholeheartedly to make changes to the financial bill that everyone could agree on was necessary. The minority was particularly concerned that the committee and the council produced a financial bill that did not come to the hands of the next government in order to start the necessary actions in relation to the emphasis that the government would put on. In general, an advanced government should produce a financial bill that allowed room for the government that will immediately be able to take action in the issues that it stresses. The smaller section considers this to be very important to be a conjunction of elections to action, so that the government that accepts won't have to wait for a year after they have established their financial policy and financial plans after being able to make the necessary changes. In this way, she would still be working for a previous government policy, even though she had received another commission in elections. Only on the project of the Committee. Because of the late budget management bill presented at the General Assembly, the Committee agreed to produce changes in several lawsuits, health matters, education, transportation, and law enforcement programs, as well as to suggest a change in income plan to meet budgets in the above categories. The committee had a very short period - a very short period of time - to review the reviews and to obtain some complete vision of the bill. There, however, new laws on public finances helped, where a material discussion had already taken place in 2017. On the other hand, there was a conflict between an earlier kind of work and together the above became part of the work, i.e. how late the bill was submitted, how short the committee's timed out to discuss the bill, and for the first time a budget was turned over by a new government law, in order that the treatment of the Commission on the bill might have been better. Despite these circumstances, members of the committee were extremely solution, covering over the plots and the lawsuits selected by the committee to give special emphasis. Because of these circumstances, there will be an even greater reason to follow up on the budgeting procedure very closely, as it is defined as the goal of Article 1. it's a government law. The more important it is that these funds are followed by observation because of their brief review of the council under these circumstances. Only on the circumstances mentioned. We accept funding that should be based on a financial plan. However, the budget was 23 billion, or 3% of the government's expenses, above financial planning. There was a loss of the space you would have thought you could take over. This meant that we had to dig for income in order to finance the changes we thought were necessary to accept or allow the budget to pass through. Finally, that amount ended to 12.6 billion, which will be 1.5% more of the government's expenses. It was not an easy task, but for some reason it went on in the present situation. That was very interesting, I must say. Mr. President. Only on the lawsuits. In the case of law enforcement, a change was made in the public and legal field of 500 million. K. Due to increased stress, including Because of the increased number of tourists, and the need for effective high - altitude activities, it seemed necessary to give more money to these matters. As for the transport committee, it became of interest to finance the new UNECE transport programme, which was then unsaid, and under the circumstances that 23 billion extra - financial programs had already been assigned, this was a very interesting project. In terms of this solution, the Commission considered the priorities of Vega and further emphasized additional support for the maintenance of 2,500 million. K. It's a lot of work, and it's very important. The Commission would surely have wanted to contribute more to transportation, and it will be the task of the next government to accept and add. About education. A total of 1.7 billion dollars is proposed by the Committee. plus high school and college, 400 million. K. to the high school phase to bridge the amount of money that would otherwise be run until the system change of shorter school years has ended. A total of 1.3 billion can be estimated. to the university level to meet the proposed management palaces and to develop the instruments of schools that have required careful spending in recent years. However, in terms of less than 5 parts, the general comment is that funds go to strengthen the bases of schools that collect school fees from their students and that projects that use all schools are earmarked for one particular school. In the years to come, school models need to be developed that will strengthen all their employers. The committee spent most of her time in health care. Most of the time, however, the most recent elections gave priority to the design of the health system. The aim will not be achieved with these budgets, but it was the sincere desire of the Committee to have clinics at least the opportunity to start with zeros and the possibility of preventing tilting. A fifth smaller portion, after checking the numbers and the data to which the committee was accessed, is considered to have been achieved. The establishments of the health system should be able to perform the necessary services for the country without ending up in the minus. However, there are many things that can go wrong, so it becomes our work to monitor how these medical resources are spent. That 500 million is absolutely necessary. K. to protect patients from the hospital, from nursing, and from new patients. If new patients don't get to the other money, they don't have anything to say. We might as well not have done that. This is a huge chain of projects that all of us need to achieve in order to accomplish this budget with the desired results. A fifth of the smaller items is the minimum when 2017's budget was returned to the health system on the right side to zero in the management supply. After reviewing the data, a 5 - year - old found that amount would have to be 7.5 billion. The sum is contained in the budget and in the changes suggested by the budget. This amount is divided between a number of causes and issues, and together many have to reach the target set. There is very little need for a failure to reach the overall objective. Piranha will be ruthlessly monitored by the fact that these funds will be spent in the most efficient way possible. The European Commission's responsibility in this case is immense in Pirata's opinion. This is everything. These are not the small coins we put into this, and they'd better be protected in an efficient and effective way. The objective of the committee. The committee made it a goal to give the budget where the health and education system would not have to endure salaries. The committee believed that its projections for budgeting for 2017 achieved that goal and that a new government, whatever it might, would accept an acceptable operation and, after the emphasis on that government, added. So everyone, however, wanted to do better in different areas. But the committee seemed to be in the middle, becoming acceptable to all parties. To achieve these goals, solutions were sought, including in the Final budgets for 2015 and budgets for 2016, as well as how to pay for the expenses proposed by the Committee. Sometimes it was very close to whether an agreement would cover a common adjustment proposal. Long off, while the members of the committee were still expressing their expectations, it was not clear whether the outcome was reached. It would have meant an independent change proposal from all categories that would likely not have produced any changes in the budget after the votes for these changes or that expenses had been approved but had not been approved against, even if the budget had not been accepted in general. That would have been very serious. The fifth item establishes the hope that the changes in budgets are crucial, not just for the topic areas that the committee focused on, but for the greater impact of change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u8	Mr. President. In contrast with what we are used to, we will discuss the budgets that have been administered under very special circumstances and clearly realize that the major political questions will not be addressed. This is mainly because the bill is proposed by a non-participant management board, and because of this, members of Congress decided to agree on certain major issues, while expecting that when new political issues are formed at the General Assembly, the political lines will be discussed in a special budget bill in 2017. As a result, there are many things that will not be discussed with this bill. But the main outcome is that we have agreed on important improvements to health, education, and transportation. I especially want to know that this is also an increase in tax monitoring and tax research. The financial bill also has a novel feature, which is clarified because the bill is now submitted by a new set of laws on public finance, which took effect on January 1 of this year. Documentation is considerably different. It also makes it not so easy to compare with the previous budget-employment products, budgets, or budgets, despite the fact that the content and overall appearance of this bill give evidence of financial policy, plan and economic policies of the management of the forward-of-the-arts and members of an independent group, which were appointed when it was set up, i.e. Both plans and policy. Every government's policy on income and government spending is, in turn, a characteristic of its overall objective and objective for the consumption and shared activities of the citizens of the country. Economic, financial, and financial budgets of each year are the most important government policy documents for their time, and the foundation of society depends largely on whether society is equal and social security. As noted earlier, the news was being taken from the budget to a larger agreement with representatives of different and in various ways contrasted with political powers on their contents, but it has usually been achieved when budgets are provided in advance of certain political points behind each government. By so doing, I believe that members of Congress have met their responsibility to the community and to the administrative duty of having compromises in these circumstances. And while an agreement goes along, there is no doubt that I would have chosen to behave in a different way and that other emphasis would be in line with the political and social policies of the State. Of course, this special situation calls for the media of all categories, and as mentioned earlier, political debate may be to wait for a new government to be formed. Economic conditions in this country are marked by economic growth and have been since 2011. The current economic growth is among the longest, even the longest, of which the Icelandic community has been exposed, and further economic growth has been very rapid in some periods within it, such as the last few months after some relaxation in 2014 and up until 2015. In this way, the Habitat reported that during the third quarter of this year, national production became 10.2% higher in real value than the national production of the same quarter of a year and has not been so abundant since 2007, often referred to as an example of one of the greatest expansions in later years. In many areas, there have been a turnaround, such as the entire store, construction, and real estate sales, which have left a wide range of operations for room and restaurants. In recent years the causes of economic growth and expansion are first found in the rapid rise in tourism. Travel services provide the local market for large currency revenues, thus driving the economy to transport, private consumption, and financial resources. Today, there are obvious signs indicating that the economic expansion is excessive and that there is a need to build a foundation on it is not bad. The plans of an advanced government on terms of government wealth and policy were marked by a right policy in which the income of the state was slowed down and the stable income stocks were systematically detracted or eliminated. So strong was the fact that over three years as the ideal period for an isolated government, the government gave up a government budget of between 50 and 60 billion dollars. Also, there was no way to correct the fact that tax - system changes were meant to benefit primarily those in the economy. In other words, the taxation of the State was used for the sake of the wealthy and rich rather than at the expense of those who rely on the welfare system. A left green agent does not agree under any circumstances on the priorities of the state - neither the local government nor the group in general - I think it is indiscriminate in today's economic situation, and the Navy has adopted it when it is spoken of as the government on the other hand, and the Serench Bank's money policy is looking in different directions - but it seems to be an elder to be abject economic situation. As we now see, there is no need to reduce tax returns. Rather, taxes should be used to cut down the burden and the total government funds for the compression of the economy rather than to contribute to the growth of personal consumption. In this regard it is not possible to ignore the fact that a very specific operation by the divorced government to improve the privacy of personal consumption, consisting of a decrease in the permanence of the price - assured housing bar at the expense of the common revenue. It should also be noted that the greatest benefit for those who were well - intentioned but has not yet been answered to questions that were long ago directed to the government on these matters is surely not reassuring. A stable employment management is under limited authority and cannot succeed in taking drastic or massive measures in the economy or in other areas. Yet, no one can hide the need for economic measures that take into account the present circumstances and will cause a compelling problem sooner than later if the situation is not handled firmly. Sadly, such measures are not to be found in an existing budget. This bill was distributed to the General Assembly of December 6, a long time later than we are used to, but it is usually mentioned in the beginning of September after the assembly and we have usually had the fall to discuss that subject. As a result, Iceland's Institute for National Economics prior to November was laid to the foundation. More than anything else, national forecasts made positive changes during the past year. In view of the crisis of the work of the budget committee, the Committee decided not to attend this meeting with representatives of the local community and to limit much of the meeting with representatives of the individual organisations. Only representatives of the National Hospital and the Road Building met with representatives of the council. In this regard, members of the Governing Body have worked hard to get financial benefits together during the short time they had to do so. Of course, this project was a complex problem that ended up in a very different viewpoint among members of the committee who come from seven political movements now in the General Assembly. Nevertheless, a joint decision, a compromise based on the professional and political activities of the Committee, was reached. A meeting was achieved by the Committee to direct its work mainly to four broad areas of affairs; health, education, transportation, and law enforcement and security. In line with this, these categories of topics were addressed to the committee meetings, but individual representatives have, of course, made themselves known to other matters as their time and other circumstances allowed. It is truly remarkable that the first financial bill with a new and changed format came to the scene of Generalis under the circumstances. It may be concluded that many people inside and outside the state have not fully figured out the beneficial changes established by the new government law in terms of financial development and the role of those who are now so much limited but where financial policies are largely carried out in financial and financial programmes. Sadly, that discussion may not have been that way when such plans and plans were made as necessary. Since the formation of a new government has not yet been successful, such policies have not occurred. Whatever the case, it is Generalis'job to agree to the budget. The United Nations cannot escape that obligation, and the government would soon be out of control. The one standing here is no more satisfied with the financial policy of an advanced government now than with the last total election. But I believe her progress has been made to correct her worst failings that in the present situation, it is appropriate to accept the changes that are aimed in the right direction and to pay for the street of the bill. We certainly put ourselves on the scales to change this bill. Of course, we express firm support for the changes proposed to improve the health and education systems and other aspects of the education system. Granted, not all problems are solved, but these improvements are important steps to correct especially the health and education status of the institutions. This will certainly be important, though it is far from enough to finance a transport strategy adopted recently at the General Assembly. Certain compensations are provided for tax control and tax research, as I said before, which is an important step to dealing with the ills of tax subsidies in the community. However, we do not think that there is more to be done, and I will discuss it afterward. I'm just gonna go over it together with something else that we set up on the Committee. I can agree that the changes made in the amount of a pension in the social security system, with the law on social security, social support and laws on the elderly, were made in some respects, but I have to point out that they are going way too far in ensuring micro- or elderly standard of living. This is especially true of microcolleagues who fail to receive the same compensation as pensioners and, in fact, are the ideals of the least pensioner who do not fit in, either for them or for our community. So unfortunate was the change in law approved this fall that the difference between single - parent families and couples in terms of each other grew worse than the latter, i.e. If you are a single person, you are much better off, for it all depends on a special domestic work that a person receives, not on a married couple. I don't think there's any grammatical evidence to support that arrangement, and I think we need to correct it. There is still much lacking regarding the terms of this group, i.e. both older and poorer. So we need to point out the obvious fact that their pensions are going to go along with the labour market and that funding to the seminars should, of course, be in harmony with that. Clearly, the situation in the financial system of arts is inexplicably lacking, and many important cultural institutions are subsidized. A plan for the increase of artists has to be established and a new application program for creative articles in harmony with what the Union of Icelandic artists has proposed. Several discussions were made on the committee's position of collections and smaller projects, so the committee decided to raise a number of support, but they are only a fraction of what was requested. Dents there e.g. That under these things there are British Valley mansions in my district, Mountain Sales and LungA, to name just a few things, but we need, and I agree to the view, to make it happen, to bring it into an acceptable course, so we don't have to sit around with some people walking out of the handle. According to tax research, a taxpayer has found that 80 billion dollars is the tax charge. ... compared to society. More people have evaluated this amount and considered it considerably higher, as shown in a recent study in the Nordic Taxes Journal. Tax fraud is a serious damage to society. Therefore, it is urgent to strengthen the institutions of the state of government that use tax control and to further research and to react to tax fraud. There is no doubt that it will result in a far greater increase in income to the community and an improvement in tax divorce will also result in an increase in cohesion and harmony. It would have been in my opinion to take steps to handle these matters and to increase the financial resources to them more than in reality, though the additions to the 2nd suit should certainly be welcomed. Sexual violence affects a large percentage of women in Iceland, and it is the resources that public members of the state and rural society have in no way fit the seriousness of the situation. To get legal laws against sexual offenders, a trust must be made in the delivery of the legal system and an efficient means for the toleration of sexual abuses. The education of professions and of all those who serve involuntary service needs to be expanded and the police and the prosecution must be funded. It has to be ensured that no matter where the country is broken, funding will spread throughout the country so that tolerability will be ensured by appropriate measures. I'm very kind to say we saw ourselves move, i.e. The committee, to strengthen the force that operates in Akureyri, and to care for a very large area worthy of attention, is actually in the same kind of job as a kappace in the capital area. The climate and its consequences are certainly the largest solution of our times. The responsible authorities need to set up a trustworthy, ambitious plan to reduce and maintain greenhouse gas emissions. A carbon charge is one of the most effective ways to reduce such emissions, but it is also clear that the price is too low to have the desired effect. According to an OECD report, a worldwide carbon charge is about 80% too low to have the desired effect to reduce emissions. Thus, the increase of about 10% in carbon charge is estimated to be the left of the movement ▪ green supply not sufficiently high in order to serve the goals of carbon decomposition. Sadly, a suggestion has been made earlier. Climate and environment are no longer peripheral issues, thanks to the firm struggle of prospective environmentalists and scientific and scholarly contributions. Clearly, we need to strengthen the position of this group and strengthen far beyond what was done during the last term. This project will be among the most important solutions of the new government. I can't bear to mention when it comes to the environment, which we actually didn't deal with in this common budget bill we're trying to get approved with, that these matters became completely excluded, because this is, of course, an important case. There could be a lot to say about him, but I'm just gonna stop at his position, i.e. We need to increase the budget for environmental research, we need to increase the budget for nature protection and the general environmental information, especially in the light of increased tourism, since this puts us under great stress. We're gonna need to increase ground guard and infrastructure into national parks. There will be a very small increase in agricultural budgets, and there will be insufficient to respond to the urgent need and the increase in national health standards will also be in line with the fact that tourists are traveling around the country all year round. The same is really true of law enforcement. We know the pressures that have steadily increased the law. Resolution is in number of status values. In February 2011, there were 652 police officers, but at the same time this year, they were 659. The increasing currents throughout the country have had much to say about the growing pressures, especially in districts few and hundreds of thousands of visitors every year. More road traffic and lack of maintenance last few years are causing more traffic accidents than before, with pressures for the police all over the country. In this context, I specifically mention Keflavík in this context, pointing out that the funds for the Southern Police Department have not been in any way consistent with the growing pressures of border service and other projects on the international airport. In addition, some recent years have to correct reverse developments and ensure that contributions to the police will be made so that the office can perform its legal function and provide its employees with good employment. Despite the fact that increased funds are given to the seminary in this bill, it is far beyond acceptable. We also need to make great improvements in the management of the new county bodies, which have been funded since 2015. Despite the joint conclusions made by the budgetary board on the breakdown of complex management halls, which certainly improve the situation, there remains a lack of financial support and, therefore, will be a permanent homemaking if legal rights cannot be changed. The financial bill that we now discuss will not solve this problem, and we will find that his solution will be among the activities of the government that will be established here. I think we can all agree that Iceland should be an ideal place for young people in the future. We need to provide family members with a better setting, with child - welfare aid and longer birth vacations. We need to increase our child's compensation and reduce their lack of income to equalize the child's situation. The increase in roofs that went into effect in October 2000. is improving, certainly, but the growth for 12 months should be a priority and an important contribution of the state in the great parental interest of covering the gap between obstetric and daily care. One of the things we settled on the committee and made a joint suggestion is a transport plan. Of course, we need a four - year budget of transportation. The consistent transport program adopted in the autumn of 2016 included the protection of up to 100 billion for transport improvements in its duration. The treatment system has been neglected in recent years to the point of safety for road users when the risk is critical is not controlled by the necessary improvements. We believe that there are at least 13 billion funds needed in essential new building, security, and road maintenance. The pressures on the road system have increased dramatically by heavy transport and by increasing the number of tourists. In itself, it is surprising that the government that has sat here for three and a half years did not begin building in the road system at the beginning of the last terms, when financial space had already formed. Actually, this was the first travel program adopted by an advanced government in this fall, which it did not succeed in coming back from earlier. It is disappointing for the people of the country that the transverse decision to reimburse the transport strategy proposed and adopted by all classes at the end of the last council is to be financed only one-third of the budget bill. However, my opinion is that the agreement that has been made to deal with all the most urgent transport projects is that we can provide that approach. It is a precious project, including one, that of the first century B.C.E. Stinky Road, Shepherds, Beerfjörður, Animal Strait, as well as the extra we put in maintenance, which is very important. One thing we've been discussing for a long time, and often it's the beacon, the high - speed connection. You often feel that not everyone is aware of how poor it is in many areas, even if there are urban areas where there are more than 500 people, there may be a relaxed connection. Aggressive telecommunication, Iceland light-related, has been under way. It aims to link approximately 99.9% of entire-infested legal home and occupational administrations at 100Mb/s speed by the end of 2020. As we all know, the use of this quality is of great value in the past. Not only do they come from people who want to move there and live, but they don't really do business because no one is moving to places where bad relationships exist today. Students do not even come home from school on weekends because they cannot do their chores. I'm sorry that there has been an attitude in this matter to link as many people as possible, but not to those who might need it most, i.e. in small areas where no one really wants to build it up by the private. We believe Iceland should be a handsome part of development cooperation and large contributions to the seminary in line with the UN target so that they will be 0.7% of GDP. The Icelandic government supports this goal in words but has not shown it, since Iceland's donations are now only 0.25% of the gross domestic product. In January 2017, there are 47 refugees from Syria who are part of the 103 government officials who decided in September 2015 to respond to the request of the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees. I'm worried that on the bill, they're not funded to receive. We all know that the elderly will have a new home in this country, and we are under obligation to place funds with those in the countryside who receive them. It's nine families. They move into three rural societies, and each member society assumes that contribution. The first step must be resolved, allowing them to accept the Syrian family in the same way that has been done so far. Iceland has an excellent opportunity to receive more refugees than it is now. The long - standing, miserable war in Syria and the wars in many parts of the world have resulted in the fact that there have never been more refugees in the world than there are today. We must respond, shoulder our responsibility in the international community, and bring in considerably more than is now being done. We also need to correct the affairs of the country's trustees and balance their circumstances with the so - called cry - out fearers when it comes to adjusting for the community after asylum has been granted. It is important to ensure the proper implementation of new foreigners, who are now functioning for years with sufficient financial resources and resources. A trader on the health system on a social basis, that's our left-green assessment. We feel that it is important that we do not have double systems in which the more wealthy are able to buy medical care that others do not have. Priorities in the health - care network are at the expense of patients so low that they do not allow anyone to refrain from attending their services. During 2015, eight thousand Icelanders did not attend health care because they could not afford it. Here we need to change our course now. We need to take steps to reduce the patient's income to this end, starting with children, micropigs, and the elderly. So it is disappointing that the payer session should be postponed on February 1. There's been a lot of disagreement in the community because of the deteriorating health status of Iceland's institutions and health care, and we in the left green agree. Of course, we will agree with the requirement of 86 thousand individuals who have signed their signature that contributions to health will be 11% of gross domestic product each year, thus being comparable to what happens in other countries. Clearly, the land hospital's situation is very serious because of financial shortages and has been for some time. There is an annual need for service because of the increase in patients and changes in the age of the nation. In the ensuing election, politicians once voiced that the restoration of the health system was a top priority, but it still seems that the people of the country are seeing in a national hospital that keeps seas in place, despite the agreements that came between the groups of increased financial contributions. There is still no need for real restoration. Of course, more serious health care facilities can be seen than in the Land Hospital. All over the country, health institutions have been tailored to a low standard for many years, and it can be seen that during the past few years, standards of living have been too high in the light of their narrow position today. It is not enough to recommend these important cornerstones in the region, although it is a pleasure to have some step towards a normal economy. With regard to the university, we know their financial resources and their serious positions. Strong university education is the most important way to ensure future prosperity, a work structure based on initiative and innovation of individuals. We need to take decisive steps to make contributions to each university student's average OECD, followed by an increase in the number of countries in which Iceland is equal in terms of the approved policies of the Scientific and Technical Council. The head of all the colleges in Iceland has joined in making a statement about college subfundation and their concern for the position, taking the left movement, under these concerns. As for high school, we feel that it is important that they be open to all, not just to those under 25 years of age. We need to make an increase in donations with each student without looking into measures that are actually a number of restrictions. We need to ensure professional independence from high school and enable smaller schools in the country to have a wide range of educational opportunities. We also need to make sure that any schools that have taken part in running high school, I mention, for example. A crew and an armory who are under Lan's high school will be able to secure funding in order to continue. As a matter of fact, armed fun is, for example. only with consent for spring. Then the department falls down there'll be nothing to do. I believe we've settled it in our agreement. However, we need to keep in mind that, in time, we do not have to deal with such situations every year. Rather, we need to be sure that this is guaranteed into the basic schools that keep up with them. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to say that in order to get all of this together, there were changes made on three layers, i.e. Money, funds, and finals. In order to meet the demands set out by these seven groups, it was better than usual to sharpen it and to do a little better than it was initiated. I really hope that those who are taking over see that the need is so much better, not just for the litigation that we on the committee met, but for a lot more people in the community. I trust that no matter what government will rule, so it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u9	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator, a 60 - year - old member of the legal committee, was very much involved in the discourse, which was very extensive. There is much to agree with. The senator discussed projects that are urgent and important to society. It is a little special to come back to the council and experience new circumstances that also provide specific opportunities. I especially want to celebrate the handling of the council in a responsible way of the budget. Not everyone gets all the things they would have wanted to see, it's just that, but we, all classes, do the things that shared us, and that's especially the health issues that all classes promise to try to add. I am glad that there are steps that are being taken, as well as much in education. I would like to encourage the minister of education who will hopefully be here in a few weeks to set a clear policy so that contributions to each student at the university will be similar or comparable to those in neighboring countries. I noticed why. A senator spoke in some way. The tax promotion proposals and other suggestions in what was known as communism were only involved. I'd like to emphasize that in that alliance, there was something that we would like to discuss and that can be said, whether we talk about certain fees within the tourism service or what, but we believe it is important that it be done on a complete basis. I want to ask you why. A senator, because I was sliding that in none of the provisions that come from the left green was discussed with increased evaporation of the seabed or rising costs of the seabed: Is it policy on the part of the greens, or might it be an error on their part to not intend to pay more price for the combined resource of the nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u10	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with her, as I told you earlier, I feel that this is extremely important and that in the history of the council, we are able to succeed. I'm not gonna say this is the only time we're gonna do it because I hope we're gonna be left, not necessarily going through this situation, but working much more in a parapolitan agreement. I reiterate and often review the workings of the parapolitic law and took care of it at a council. I think it says that we can do this, whether it's predominantly more things or smaller things. I like to hear it. As former minister of education, the senator agrees that contributions to the university should be comparable. With regard to our present income proposals, it is clear, not as it is with others. The minimal changes were submitted and we have, like the dog. A senator no doubt knows, suggests that the use of resource costs, both in the seas and in the energy sector, is reasonable, and has every reason to do so, of course. No one's talking about going into supersedes that are causing something to go over, but we're now as a matter of course, those people who use our resources pay for that fair price. Besides, it is up to us to appreciate what we think is fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u11	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the answer. I get it so that people also plan to examine the seabed. But I have to say, when I saw all the suggestions on possible tax increases that were not viewed as the seabed and the system changes that we included, I found a somewhat Spanish way of thinking. in construction, we want to see some of the construction of the fishing road. We have made it clear that we believe that the water export is supposed to pay more money to the nation because of access to a common resource. In my opinion, I would like to underscore again, there was a great deal that came out of good speech. Senator. In view of the work done here at the council, I can agree with a number of factors that were involved in the filming of the last council. They agreed on a transport plan. It may be possible to criticize a person's superiority, including the fact that he or she has gone too far. Because of elections, it just happens, it's old history and new. But these are vital changes we need to consider, i.e. in transport, in connection with the development of tourism, and in full analysis. I think that's important, including. taking into account the coming fees, hosting fees, we in Relations have talked about parking fees, remuneration costs, in an effort to examine the whole of the tourism department. That's what I'm talking about. A senator doesn't agree with me that in order to build professionalism around the tourism services, we need to connect as many factors as possible? I'd like to welcome the extra injections to the law enforcement officers, who really need them. But all of this is important, the growth of law enforcement, the funding of transport workers, and any increase in transport costs, in order to contribute to the more intensive tourism and the more efficient sector, because tourism is just unbelievable as it is today and in the way this branch has been built up in such short periods of time. It is amazing what we Icelanders have accomplished in this exciting business.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u12	Madam President. I agree that we're supposed to make a total plan, which has not been successful in spite of the increasing stream of tourism we've been living with, some professional skills. In this budget bill, the management center receives funds and is intended as a government travel agency, which is a public tool site, the projects are suddenly taken, and taken into the management center of travel, which is not public but only a business society. I think it's very peculiar. I mentioned on the committee that I thought we should have listened to what was presented there. About transport. I don't agree that there was overstepping when a transport plan was adopted. A transport plan had already been developed that was slightly higher than the one that was then put forward last. When I'm at the highest. The local minister was asked why the strategy was lower, and she felt that this was the best it could finance. It was found when a national financial program showed that there was a third billion missing in the existing transport program. When a national budget was established, it was out of harmony with a already established transport program of less than 3 billion people. Then members of Congress add because the plan was so incredibly bad that it was not really acceptable to keep it the way it was. I agree, we've been talking about coming charges, and I think parking charges are worth looking at, and of course, we're supposed to go through this whole thing. So at the end, because it was whispered to me, there are special fishing laws. So they don't fit in an ally, and they're only changed in the fishery Act. They need to be placed at some particular point in relation to the fishing year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u13	V.E.G. President. I have to start by saying that the last days and weeks have been very important. A financial committee has found without a doubt under much time pressure under unprecedented circumstances. First of all, we still have a board of directors. That situation keeps things in focus, making the budget not really policy-makers. The next government awaits its development, and members of the committee had to take this into account in their work. Second, for the first time, we are making budgets based on the new government laws on public finances. Senators are not the only ones who have to enter a new work ethic but also agencies, departments, and other parties at the table. Actually, it's my opinion and to most of us that this work song is far better for the future. New laws on government finance require that there be budgets for five years. The institutions have to plan their own plans for three years, and I could imagine it in the future that that time would last five years. These initiatives make it possible that the prognosticability of the programme will be increased, greater discipline and more transparent. For us senators, I believe the arrangement will make it easier for us to make money in the future. In this context, I would like to point out that the main conference of funding is now taking place in the spring, so that if people want to make their own emphasis, whether by presidents or members, members of Congress, or others, they should do so at that time of the year, not at the end of December. One of the pragmatic changes that are going to occur at work. The budget board is that members no longer need to post certain amounts of money into changing institutions, but to assist with those that the Ministry will then switch to as needed. So the committee does not directly have a share, but, of course, it still has a considerable effect on the exchange by focusing on speech and literature, which is, of course, legal. Of course, in this new arrangement there are pros and cons, but I believe the benefits far outweigh. A respectable president. The proposed bill for the budget is quite swollen, so to speak, and at the same time there is wide evidence of a loss in the economy. We also have a funded transport program of 15 billion and a payment system for over 1 billion. All classes spoke for building structures in their campaign campaigns a few weeks ago. The main focus of all classes was on education, transportation, and health. The problem with making budgets was this: We want to build wood, we don't want to expand our economy, and we're dwindling a budget bill that doesn't meet everyone's demands. The time the senators have to complete the budget is virtually zero, so solidarity must be reached. That's exactly what we've been dealing with. It's not an easy task, but it's possible. To this end, I'm going to try to review the findings of the Commission. We did what we did earlier. Our main focus on building and strengthening our infrastructure. The U.S. National Guard and National Security are important sources of support in the community. There is a great need for more money. I've heard large numbers in that relationship, and I know they're not made out of thin air. A significant discussion was created in the committee. Finally, the result was to add 400 million for a temporary supply to law enforcement. The increase is nearly 600 million. K. a dramatic increase in the bill, which is intended to meet increased pressures, including due to the increased number of tourists. The reason the committee didn't agree to add more money to the seminary this time is that a legal plan will be established. It evaluates the status of law enforcement and the future structure that the next government will likely use in the preparation of a financial programme. With regard to the D.A., we'll make a suggestion of 100 million. K. a temporary contribution to the seminary. The purpose is to meet the expected loss of money, since it is likely that Frontex's project will meet. Last year, the Agency's income is about 1.4 billion dollars. Then the loss of income may be less than feared, and it would certainly be best if it did. It should be noted that the bill for financial gain appears on page 20. 241 target for the growth of crews on guardships, helicopters, and land management planes in accordance with national protection programme 2017-2021 to ensure adequate service and security in law enforcement, surveillance, search and rescue in the seas around Iceland and in the seas. In the year 2019 C.E., it is expected that the United States will begin a renewal of the bridal fleet of the National Reservation Guard. A respectable president. The interconnection issues were discussed very closely with the Committee and analysed through the Road program. It has to be said right now, if I'm going to be completely honest, that I didn't expect the committee to land together in this category, especially since we needed 15 billion in budgets to follow an approved transport plan. But the committees finally reached an agreement, and together we propose to make 4.6 billion transport contributions, as well as the funds that go on transport. We all know that maintenance of roads around the country has been extremely lacking for years. At the same time, a number of tourists have increased by means of the road, both highways and highways. Such a situation requires extra funding for the seminary. In our discussion of transportation, we discussed, including the following: worried that such projects would further expand in the economy. I believe that we would need to do more detailed analyses of the effectiveness of transport on the economy, especially on individual parts of the country, since the level of implementation is not balanced and the type of projects involved. We need to make a much better analysis. One of the budgetary projects was animal burial tunnels, as well as General and harboring. In addition, members of the committee were provided with a list of commitmental projects. We agreed to put these projects first, as well as substantial injections, in the maintenance of the roads all over the country, 2.4 billion. In addition, there was an agreement on implementation, such as to speed up the number of phone grounds on a Smokey Way above Smokeytown, where two deaths have occurred this year. These projects simply cannot be delayed. The same is true of Smoke Road in the Blue Forest, research in Hornfjords, Fallifos Road, Bumboran Road, and other projects. A respectable president. Good schools and good education should be to all of us pride, since that is our key to the future. Then, in a wide sense, I mean education. We've been talking for a long time about strengthening the office of industry and engineering in Iceland. Even so, we have not been able to make specific progress in strengthening the study, despite the progress of high school contributions in later years. In our suggestions, we now contribute 400 million. K. temporary contributions to high school and its goals include to strengthen research in general. The college level needs to be strengthened, and we propose a recommendation of 1.3 billion who go to university and university research. To meet the needs of the university, we split the expenses of pots. Some 400 million are expected to be replaced, and another 400 million are expected to strengthen the school base. In particular, I would like to mention Bifrost, who has major business problems, as well as the National Institute of the Art of Iceland. 60 million are then designed for educational networks and chronic education centres, such as. The educational network of Southland and eastern bridges. Food production is one of our growth cooks in this country. The gardening school at Smoke in Elfs plays a vital role in this regard. On the other hand, the school's buildings are in a very bad condition, so bad that the state's real estate feels that it is not possible to accept them until the buildings are fixed and entered into an acceptable condition. So we decided to assume 70 million. K. a contribution to improving the school home, and I'm delighted to be very much of it. Another privilege I hold dear and the proposals of the Committee are 30 million. K. a contribution to the Research Centre for the University of Iceland in Lake Saturday This is a counterbillary operation, where sports teachers were put down at school. Spring. For decades the school has been a particular cornerstone of the community there. In spring, when it was anticipated that sports teachers would be dropped on Lake Saturday, a large local meeting was held with ministers, district officials, and representatives of the University of Iceland, as well as members of Congress. A representative of Iceland's Youth Association spoke at the meeting and said that the U.S.A. was interested in starting a community college on Lake Saturday as a more dance model, but they have studied such activities quite well. The General has agreed to a pact proposal for the People's University, and I want to use this opportunity here and stress that the council should follow that statement closely. We all know that our education system has certain defects. We need more flexibility, greater variety, and exciting opportunities. The establishment of a community college in Iceland would be e.g. helped to offer additional options for young people to pursue education. The debate over public college and our policy in that lit up a financial committee at a meeting that we had with representatives of the Ministry of Education. Following that meeting, it was decided to provide special funding for the need for analysis of this legal class within the Ministry. I'm sure there's a lot of parishes we're supposed to use. Madam President. Next, I would like to discuss a little about the medical system and the proposals of the Committee in the field of improvement. The overall rate of overall health expenditure during 20146/2016 was increased by 38.5 billion, which is a 16% absolute increase. Donations to the Hospital have, e.g. increased from 2013 to more than 30%. The proposed budget for 2017 is expected to be a further increase in health - run productions, with additional donations for hospital and health - care support up to 4 billion dollars. and 1.5 billion for a new framework on nursing homes management, a total of 7.3 billion. This is a significant increase, as indicated by the figures, but the committee concluded that there was still a need for additional donations to the health care professional. Before we go any further, I'd like to say that when we talk about the health system, we are not just talking the Land Hospital and its activities. Our land hospital is our high-tech hospital that needs to be able to receive our weakest people, identify the most complex cases, and do the most difficult things. This support certainly needs to be taken care of, but I have to tell you in my mind that I feel that the discussion is too limited to the land hospital. We need to watch our system as a whole, all its units, such as health care, local health facilities, home nursing, medical transportation, and nursing facilities, to name something. All of this needs to work well and work together. We have so far looked at this part of the medical system from an too narrow perspective. It is our responsibility to make sure that everyone has access to good health care throughout the country, and it is also our responsibility to manage the funds of the state. It is not a matter of constantly increasing your contribution to the health of your health but of making use of the money in the right places. Then we will need to look out for the functioning of the health system and compare it with the effectiveness of other health systems. In this context, national and demographic factors should be taken into account that affect the needs of the country for health care. The Ministry of Success induced McKinsey to make an assessment of the operation of the Land Hospital, his economic interests, and the conduct of labor force at the hospital. In addition, the report discusses the use of funds and quality provided by health care and the interaction of the Land Hospital with other aspects of the health system, including the health care professionals and specialists in their own offices. The results of this report are very interesting, and I would be happy to direct the interested person to study its contents, which can be found on the website of the Ministry of Health. We need to take a close look at these things, for it is clear that we are making a breakthrough. So I stress that Mckinsey's report will be new to progress, not put in a drawer. There is a need to make a work plan out of it and to work in an orderly way to improve our health. In the final analysis of Mckinsey's report, which includes the permission of a president: Despite impressive performances in recent years, not everything is the best option in the Icelandic health system. There is a lack of clearer management between the various health care providers as well as a management tool that enables evolution to control. [...] In recent years, there has been a unique opportunity to cope with these problems and to ensure that the National Health Organization provides quality services in all areas in a practical way. Madam President. The project we have is very important, but I know that a meeting is about to improve the health system. Such solidarities can do us quite well. A financial committee proposes to add about 2 billion to specialized hospital services, but this addition will largely add funds to the Hospital. Of these, about 1 billion go to business and 1 billion are to improve and sustain the hospital home. In addition, 100 million are designed to strengthen the walking services and general staff of the Akureyri Hospital. A major issue has been the efflux crisis of the Land Hospital, which is the problem in which people cannot be sent from the hospital, where they cannot afford a home nursing home or a nursing home. Since it is far more expensive to have people in the hospital, it is urgent that we remove the hospital's ectoplasmic problem as soon as necessary. We could also reduce the efflux problem by using the collar hospital, which means Acdine, Seleucos, and Southnes, better in this field as well as in simpler measures, e.g. to shorten the waiting list for operations. The committee arranged for a representative of the National Hospital to meet as well as a representative of the Ministry of Health to identify the need and how to meet it effectively. It was then decided to provide suggestions for improvement, e.g. 150 million. K. a contribution to home nursing in the capital area and 700 million is expected as well. K. contribution to nursing and residence. There are 500 million of them. K. authorised for business households and 200 million. K. to try and convert the media into nursing homes, which are two-and-three-inch, monotonous. Most apartments in nursing homes are mostly in Stykkisolmi and Hornfjordur. It is suggested that other clinics that provide public health care will receive a total of 415 million. K. a temporary donation. You can, for example, do so. Consider Southnesia, a health center that had recently suffered a massive cuts. Although contributions to the Agency have increased again in recent years, transport transport services have increased significantly. At the airport, thousands of people do not work in the area but still need a service at the health facility. The number of people in the area has also increased dramatically over a late period of about 8%, and it appears that there is an even greater increase in parallel activity for air bases and industrial functions, to name something. Southern Health Institutes for Health were not consistent with the increased service and need for the area and the need for improvement. The same applies to the Southland Institute of Health. This organization has a major business problem, which is largely in place when the Western National Institute of Health was combined. She was accompanied by a heavy debt that has been difficult to work on. Southland is a major tourist area. Foreign tourists travel through it, but there are also large summer homes that attract a large number of people who, of course, need health care. The local population has little to say about the real need for service. V.E.G. President. I see that I have had a long speech session, and I'm going to take a short cut of my speech, but I'd like to say, "It doesn't necessarily mean that a financial committee has made arrangements to settle the committee. " All had to swallow things that were difficult for them, in the name of reconciliation and agreement. I am proud to have been able to share in this work and to thank my members on the committee very much for their pleasant cooperation. The chairman of the Committee, Haraldur Benediktsson, deserves special honor for his contributions, and I'm not worried that he will be overrated by this commendation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u14	V.E.G. President. It has been very informative for all of us to face one another and to try to understand what is behind the viewpoints that each representative of a very different category of members of the council claims. We got the job done. This is a turning point because at every meeting we could stop and try to do something else. So I have to say, it's a pleasure to see us all this way. I'd like to start by, so I won't forget, thank the Committee on Fundament for a very good cooperation, and then a special chairman and vice president of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Haraldur, son of Benediktsson, and why. paritaprevir It's a whole new Harðardóttir Daughter. Had the leadership of the Commission not believed in the project from the beginning, we would probably not be here today. V.E.G. President. We realized that we are working under special circumstances. Here we offer suggestions that mean a huge increase in the budget and, therefore, taxpayers that we must not forget about all this discussion. We must be careful to stay within the standards that new government laws put upon us and preferably do a little better in paying off debts, etc. The next government must evaluate the changes to be made, both in the tax system and in the cases under each department. What we're trying to do with our adjustments is to put more money into large categories of cases and control them to the best of their use. This is a one - year decision. An effort was made to adjust the motion in such a way as to see to it that this is the sole decision of the council. Then we know that a great deal of work awaits the government that will eventually take over the administrations of this country. At least we hope so. Good President. We are also representatives of certain votes. I'd like to get a lot ahead of myself on key issues involving my district of South America. It is a pleasure to share in completing a large task. Now we look forward to signing a new dresser contract, a project that has been in progress since the collapse, and I first began to interfere when I was head of the Rangers of the Ranger Council of the East when all of us were left unscrupulously located in the shoreline of the ideal rural society. Prepare to make port and ferry as it continues to be a two - sided project, it was clear from the beginning that both a new port and a new ferry might be required, which could have a good access to the harbor. This is where we make sure they're built. We all know how important it is for every community to have good transportation, and here we make sure that our Western ears make good trips to the future. I am very happy to see the big task docked. We'll improve, like others before. Fundament committee members have established much of the transport sector. We took up a discussion on the transport program for elections that are, of course, more swollen than the suggestions we see today and the results will be in the budget. But we stick to completing the work that has already been agreed on. There we can talk about preparing for the next stage in the southern part of the country. We can talk about the Smoke Road, which has been a lot of times done, about the Episcopalway and the Stop Project called on the Southnes, where the community came together and demanded that we, due to traffic security, ensure certain changes in the Rhine Way. It is a pleasure to have an agreement and an absolute agreement on a budgetary committee making up that assignment. At times, you may feel that when a road program is being put together, traffic safety should be the largest and the only thing to discuss there. It is not always that way, but of course, important viewpoints are also held in high esteem there. But we have to make sure that our people can drive around in the most secure environment. We have also talked about it in line with a transport plan to increase money maintenance. This is a topic that has been discussed in the Assembly Hall. The budget for maintenance the road system has been reduced since collapse with visible consequences. Above that, there have been increased traffic, a number of tourists. We simply have to add. This is where they're doing it. In that project comes the development of single bridges, which are extremely numerous, especially in Southeast lands. I hope we all see and feel the changes this extra capital will mean for the national road system. Taking in a number of foreign tourists is an assignment. The law, especially in the South, has had much to do with it. Last year, it was decided to place a set budget on highland monitoring, which was a temporary arrangement that fell out of force for the next year and was not on a budget bill for 2017. There was a body of budgets to add to the force of law, and it was specifically stated about the contributions made by tourists and went to two administrations in the South and Northern countries to take care of highland monitoring that there was an interest in the Commission that the project would continue. That's very good. Besides, there are pots inside the Ministry, which the Ministry will then arrange for the administration. As many have mentioned today, the design of a law - enforcement program will be guided by the way all of that will be done. A new legal arrangement on public finances means that we must do things differently than usual. But we have a project that we've taken into the Senate Hall every year in the budget because they haven't been able to access the suggestions of the consultants. One such project is the ART assignment in the Southland. On the budget board, we make another trip that allows funds to be placed on that project. I suggest that the Ministry of Health accepts this assignment and ensures that it will be financed so that we don't have to stand in this room every year, all agree on this project, always, all classes, and there are elections, and every member of Congress agrees on this project. Why on earth do we have to slave through it at all times? It's really annoying. This is not meant to be the case with government law. Of course, some officials are not interested in this assignment. But that's what Congress is interested in. The Senate wants it to be permanent. Why don't we all just promise that this will be the last time that we members of the district and other interested members of the council are going to have to stand in this chair and speak for a proposal to enter it into the budget? This is ridiculous. To say that I'm a little happier and more positive, and I'm really glad that there's always support in this project. I'm not going to scold those who do well. Over the years, we've talked about university and college together. When a small unit slips into a major unity, what happens? In that case, the little one often gets a little bit left out. We have one such example and one of such sources in our suggestions. It's about Smoke. The forestry School of Smoke slipped into the agricultural university of Innunciation in its own time. The house address is ruined. In winter, the roof peels off and is made up of some preliminary repairs. We at the council need to deposit extra funds so that emergency reimbursement can be provided. I'm sorry we have to do this, of course, this should be in school's money. I hope that the way we prepare will be so that we can make sure that people can be there for school and teaching without leaking protective equipment and that we make sure the school is well off. I believe that in this context we need to discuss whether the Gardening School of Smoke should escape the College of Agriculture at Innunciation. I urge us, as members of the hall and district members, to use us for making an open examination to see if this part of the school is better protected under another government. Of course, this is not university. At the time, when the school was moving there, I was in the company of the Sunnian Company, and we wondered if it was better and more comfortable that the school was merely in cooperation and in the South Railway School. I think we need to take a discussion about that again. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir talked only about the project on Lake Saturday. This gives us another example of a small unit that goes under the size of a large one, in this case Iceland's gymnasium, which at its time went to the School of Teachers and then to Iceland's University. Last year, Iceland's university made a decision to take the sports teacher to Reykjavík, a decision against which the council members of the South Presidency held that it was not a problem. We did not feel that it was enough to strengthen our study in Lake Saturday, which had been saved there for years, but we succumbed to that struggle. In these talks, a handbill was arranged and signed by a declaration of willingness to support the university's activities on Lake Saturday by setting up a research site there. This is where we'll secure funding to make it happen. I encourage the University of Iceland to look handsome at the project, and then we're not supposed to have to stand here for a year to secure money for this again. This assignment is to be part of the university business, and the university is to show pride in taking good care of it. I encourage the school to do so. It was a shock to the South and to the mobs at the time of that decision. We are simply under obligation to take good care of this future arrangement. We've been discussing some of the waterways. There had been plans for various projects and contracts. We'll secure funding to make it all finished. Of course, one of the largest projects to take place in South Africa is the village. We heard about the effect of the change on the docks in the week. Inland cruises are about to start from Sharkate, which, of course, are bound to the premise that the dock can be completed. I don't know if everyone here knows, but the village crew was at their time the cooperation of the Sunnlands. It's the harbor of all of us, although I'm from the islands where nothing could be left till the land-land island came to be, local communities were all over the South, who put money on building the Pacific harbor because of its use for us all. This is our common employment area, and we are glad that the work there thrives and develops even more directions. We take specific assignments on the budget regarding the natural disasters that took place this year. I'm going to discuss it in a talk later today. But it is important to consider all of this in context. I'd say we have our suggestions on a budget to deal with all the emergency problems we know about in our ideal district. Health issues are issues the last election was to some extent. Here are some suggestions for injecting there. That's fine. Of course, it is clear that in the future we must make sure that all the health - care resources involved are in place and have tools and tools to do their work well. Although this is not our largest suggestion on the financial committee, it is a big proposal for the future, with 32,10, where we propose 30 million. K. a temporary donation aimed at promoting the role of the national surgeon and the health insurance of Iceland for negotiations with a unique nursing home. We need to know what we're buying for the public tax dollars and monitor that everything is done in the way that we, the labor market, want to do. Clearly, we need to strengthen our organizations. I think it's the right thing to remember that the financial resources to the Ministry of Health have, for example. As a result, the ability to monitor and overlook this huge health system and our largest budget on budgets is reduced by some 500 to 1,600 million. We want to fix this. I am glad that the entire committee agreed to put the extra money on such a check. We spend a lot of money on this system, we want it to be good, but we also want to know what's going on with the money we put into it. Good President. It's been quite an experience going through this process, and you weren't always optimistic about the fact that it would go all the way. But I hope we in this room will be able to accept the bill by Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u15	Mr. President. I'm going to do a few words on the budget bill that's up to 2nd. and also use the opportunity to briefly explain key points as they see us in the restoration. There is certainly a turning point in the Icelandic economy now that this financial bill is for payment. On the one hand, we see that after many lean and conservative years as a result of a severe economic crisis, there is now an opportunity to increase with the interests of the state. On the other hand, the fact is that if you are not careful, this financial bill could push too much pressure on society, and there, Madam President, it has not yet been put into the tracks we would like to avoid. Our emphasis on acidification is a serious way of thinking that we feel that outside circumstances are a great need for financial support. However, we would like to create room for additional government expenditures in several places, mainly in health and education, in the spirit of what we stressed in the implementation of elections. It is clear that in many areas of society, it is time for investments to take place, as was much discussed in the implementation of elections and of all categories. It was similar with regard to our health - care system. There are positive things to say about the process that has been done here, and it is described, and it is good to see steps in considering the discipline of financing, long - term thinking, with the emphasis on stability and incessible business. Despite expectations of new practices and the benefits they can expect, however, this is the case with the enormous cost of interest in the United States. There has been remarkable success recently in paying off debt, but at the same time, we are faced with the fact that the growing cost of the Icelandic state is substantially higher in Europe than in countries far more debt than we are today. Though the state's debt balance has become fair enough, about 10% of all government revenues are going to pay interest on debt. Just as a company and a country's home are judged to pay under current circumstances, this discriminatory conflict between debt rates and payments results from high interest rates. Thus, it is not only the Icelandic consumers who pay for high interest in this country by paying for their homes much more than what happens in our neighboring countries, the Icelandic State is in the same position as paying off and paying from their loans. And who's gonna pay for it at the end of the story? Of course, there are Icelandic consumers, e.g. in the form of less capitalization in the multi-item and important infrastructure. Madam President. I can't help but mention this particular point that attracts our enormous interest costs, confirming how much we Icelanders really need a credible money policy to maintain with smaller fluctuations in the economy and a constant currency. It is wish that for the discussion of the next budget, something happened in that year. By a credible financial policy, it would also be more in the winter for government funds, businesses, and individuals and homes with income and expenses. I take as an example a news report of the difficulties that the crown's growth causes our main exports. For review, I would like to quote a spokesman for one of our biggest tourism agencies in a news report on the effects of the crown's funding of a traveling agency, with permission of the President's permission: Of course, we would like to be in a travel service, but our main project is prophesying, trying to provide for the currency development. I mentioned at the outset, and I would like to present some of the main views of the Backing up of the big task of this financial bill. First, regarding the expansion of the state, it shows that if we look past the stability of the bank and correction, which will be late counted to regular teams in a budget bill, an increase between the years is 60 billion, or 36 billion dollars. beyond pay and prices development. This amount increases by 9%, and taking into consideration corrections for prices is an increase of less than 7%. Aside from the years in which 2006 was notorious, 2009, the change was 1998,1999, with a pair at the same time, or about 6.5%. In addition, a clean increase of less than 11 billion is being introduced. Into the budget. In addition, some 2 billion dollars are being set. In transport and in health care, the funds are added. It is far from my intention to protest the additional growth, for I believe that the funding is well spent at the designated sites. However, I would like to point out the importance of not forgetting to make a spending pattern that cannot be maintained when the valley gets tough again. Stability and sustainability must be our guide. We're always supposed to be careful with the budget. Now there is even more reason than ever to take our step to the earth gently. As has been noted many times, for the first time the World Council is to work with budgets set on the five - year budget designed to ensure long - term thinking, stability, and prowess, especially when it comes to politics. Madam President. In view of this situation and the time pressure that we are under undeniably, it was emphasized by a financial committee that a wide set of cohesion covered the collection of the bill from a committee. Although the priorities of individual groups differ, it is satisfying to see that the changes in the budget are mainly subject to large increases in expenses submitted to health and education, as well as transportation and law enforcement. While changes in the bill would have been considered in our opinion as well as the maintenance of financial funds, they support the focus of the bill. The increase in budgets presented in changing proposals for the fiscal bill, as we have seen, is a grossly low rate of 4.5 billion. to the medical services, especially to hospital services all over the country, in ways of dealing with the efflux problem - which I have to say is an extremely ugly word, especially when it is used to discuss health care services to elderly and long- suffering, it was an introduction, we try to change it - to equipment purchases, to improve the operating area of hospitals, to expand medical transportation, and to maintain the construction of the National Hospital at a university hospital. Besides the information listed here, there was less than 1 billion bucks. Provided for health care in general, of which over 700 million. K. to a hospital in a University Hospital on budgets for 2016 Reverence supports these priorities, and I also want to reevaluate the importance of health - building projects. I'd like to add that I personally miss not seeing a certain key to a certain earmarked mental health problem for children and adolescents, but I understand that even though the time was too short for those in committees to work the suggestions there. I trust that the matter will be kept awake, and all the efforts will be made to deal with the problems that are truly faced there. High school is funded at a rate of 1.6 billion. That's 400 million of them. K. to high school, especially for engineering, and university and innovations receive 1.2 billion dollars. In particular, a respectable president, I would like to point out that contributions to the university are in the bill a little higher in the course of years. Despite additional contributions of 1.1 billion k. it is clear that the university base needs further support. Such suggestions are not found in the current budget for the next five years, although donations to the university level, as measured by each student, are much lower on land than in the countries that we like to compare ourselves with and above in the countries around us. We in the Annexe believe that there is a agreement to determine a clear policy for replacements in these matters. The current situation is unacceptable. Finally, adjustments are made to 4.6 billion dollars. increased transport as well as 900 million. K. which is expected for financial support. It is reserved for new projects, not least for maintenance of land and land. There is no question about the importance of additional funding in this category of litigation. Then we'll back up the rest of our minds 500 million. K. extra money for law enforcement and treason. A respectable president. The increase in expenses proposed to change the budget of the budget is quite consistent with the emphasis that the project presented in the implementation of elections. At the same time as proposals for expeditation over the existing budget management programme, we presented proposals for funding and proposed to describe how the state's budget could be seen at the end of the season, provided that Reunion would promote its focus in the government and would remain the dominant. As the process has been under way recently, it is not yet fully understood. Well, the time of miracles is coming. With all the fun out of the way, we're in a restoration phase pretty much satisfied with the adjustments we've been presented here. The increase in expenses is on the pair to our emphasis, as I've mentioned. To some extent, we would have wanted to see our priorities as well as the means for financing, but as mentioned, the cooperation work of many is being carried out by different groups in special circumstances. As such, it is quite fine, and there is good reason to thank members of the budget for their much and good work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u16	Madam President. I'm going to have a few words on the budget bill, as it now looks after the cooperation between men in action. It's a legal committee. As has clearly been overlooked by those representatives. The legal committees that have spoken are a very special situation. Here we are endeavoring to achieve a solidarity over the most necessary expenses. It is not necessarily a matter of dealing with the big political lines or questions in the bill but of trying to negotiate certain major issues. At the same time, we expect that when political more things are formed at the council, they will face the economic situation and the issues that are not resolved by the legal committee. Of course, there are many. I would like to use this opportunity at the outset and say that it is important that instead of giving up on the project that faced when the budget was submitted, of course, much later than usual, and simply making contributions from the state funds are being tried to deal with the biggest issues. I mention the issues presented here, health, education, transportation, and some other forms of agreement. However, I would like to say that there is concern as political more things have not been formed at the council how we're going to deal with the sign of success as my last speaker before me. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, was only in his speech. We all see signs of expansion and overheating that we need to heed. We've seen every sign of caution in the air. Importing is more than exporting, though the tourism service may add a little to the quality of its services. We have considerable market pay increases at the same time that have been attacked in taxes. Prices of housing go up far beyond prices. There's a lot of filing marks. We need to listen. I believe that it must be an assignment either to make a new political object that will probably be formed or, at least, the Generalis to put together an action plan on how we're going to deal with the spell at the beginning of the next year. That's what I think is a priority. I made it possible to discuss last night's discussions about income gains that the tax system can be used to do that. There are also other ways to use it. The main issue, however, is to reduce the amount of money in traffic and provide a responsible amount of expenses. This can be done by responsible revenues, such as those suggested by members of Congress on the Left Motion (EEC). The problem is that at the same time there is a great need for building up. In spite of the further progress proposed, and of course, I strongly support transport, for example, a transport program approved a few weeks, two months likely, is not fully financed. All right, everybody. Councilmen know the situation of that issue and are well explained by it in a committee view. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir mentions the more important tasks that await us. There's been quite a talk about health issues here. They are of high concern to members of Congress. We look forward to building at the Land Hospital of ▪ University Hospital. It is the center of the Icelandic health system that is relevant to all the people of the country, not just those living on the southwest corner. We need to be at peace with how we are going to build up, not just a new home for a land hospital ◯ A university hospital that is due to rise at the Ring Road, but also how we are going to build up the work, make the changes needed, and has been shown in discussions. We also need to be content with how we will make sure that we make adequate donations. There are other factors that need to be built. Of course, I mention the health care that needs to be really the first stop. There are others here that I intend to discuss health matters, so I especially want to discuss academic matters. There is a definite addition to education in the process of changing the law. She does not get what university presidents would have wanted to go to college. It is a major concern that in the past decade, little has actually happened with regard to university funding. There have been some clear policy targets at the latest 2014 of the Scientific and Technological Council at the highest level. Ministers of the highest order. Governments sit at the table, saying that donations per student should reach an average of the OECD countries. According to a statement made by the head of the university that only a few days ago came to us, an average of 8 billion is missing. It is 16 billion for each student to reach an average of the northern countries. What a sobering thought this must be for all of us! Of course, looking back on investments in education results in much more. If we look back at the future, we want to build up a career that we want to build, that is, we want to build on intelligence, knowledge, innovation. That career will only build up around a powerful university. That's the way it is. We've seen it build up around the university we have, from where we've seen our innovation companies appear. They've been sceptres in this environment. It's kind of no matter where you look, to which sector, it will produce the educational, professional life of which all classes, I think, keep their policy, and focus on the more valuable things that we are going to be talking about. If we neglect the foundation, if we fail to keep it properly, we will not increase it in the way that we could do. Although, of course, I support my whole mind about the increase here in school and education, mostly to college, but to some extent to high school as well, we need to do much better on that subject, and we need to view this money not as an investment, but as an investment. It is sometimes spoken as if we cannot really give up on the welfare or education unless our economic and professional life is stable. But I also say, if we don't build the foundations, the welfare and education systems, the economy and the business life won't be stable. It's not a question of what comes first, it's a question of cross-reactivity. That's why I'm calling for the top-level policy, as I say. Governments at the Scientific and Technical Council will become reality. We need to look for ways that both of us contribute to our higher education but also for its organization, making the money the best possible. I'd like to mention some matters that I view as a matter of further political discussion until we meet up with a future bill for a budget in 2017. There are various kinds of cases that require us to look for a longer time. I've mentioned the environmental issues before in connection with the change in income raise proposals, especially in land management. With an increasing number of tourists, it is more important than ever to promote full - wound protection, whether in peaceful areas or in other popular tourist attractions. The structure of tourism involves not only some projects with hammer and nail but also the operation of the areas. That's where the geologic defense is a key factor. I'd also like to mention the cultural issues that we actually do very little on the bill. That's where I think we're in the same place as in education. I believe that expenses for this group of litigation can be viewed as an investment. There we have seen that culture is not only important to itself, it is also professional. Besides making life more interesting, it has economic values. For several years there has been an application program for creative articles. I think it's been done first 2013. I still haven't seen that application schedule of day-to-day exposure, unfortunately, although it was offered by the current management board. It makes me feel like we've missed and lost an opportunity in recent years, an opportunity to attack in this area. It's closely linked to the academics. Therefore, I rejoice over what is presented in the opinion of a financial committee, especially to consider the status of the Art University when it comes to contributions to university levels. The art school has certainly been an elbow child in the Icelandic university system. It is important that we take seriously the decision that was made at the time, the good decision, to start an art university. It matters that the business is secure, that we also make sure that research can be done, as in other university educational fields, and that it also takes long - term vision so that we see that school getting under the same roof as it has been planned. It's falling on rocks in the collapse, but it's time to put down a vision of the future. I'd like to mention what's done in a committee party. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter's beak, which may not be very much discussed when we discuss the big things at home. It's a development team. We did a considerable deal of research on development at the last assembly when the Department of State Department of State was laid down and made part of the Development Organization. Sadly, though, no new plan for developing cooperation was put forward. Sadly, these have been cut down, and contributions for development have not been followed. That's where Iceland comes out embarrassingly, I let myself say, in international comparison. As we look at our situation in the national community, the richness of the nations, as we consider how the growth has been in the country in recent years, and as we look at the need in the countries we have supported, and take advantage of the funds we have given on these projects to build up and help ourselves, it is certainly shameful for us to pursue these projects, of which the United Nations is 0.7% of GDP. The program has been adopted here in the last terms, with all votes, except for how we should at least aim for this goal, not how we were going to achieve it, to 0.7%, but to aim for it. Sadly, though, we have actually moved farther away from our goal. Let us bear in mind that these contributions are not expanding, except in other parts of the world, where there is a real need for further expansion. When we discuss the state of the world today, the number of refugees and half of these refugees are refugees, we will discuss people who are fleeing from war and disaster or poverty and the difficult conditions at home, as we look at the developments ahead in climate conditions in the world, the obvious developments in which we know that a number of people will have to leave their homes and escape, it should be our ambition to increase their donations and help these people build up so that they can cope with the problems we know to the future. This has been done by most of our neighbors by increasing their donations to the objective of OECD. In fact, the British did so under right control in the midst of a crisis, up to 0.7%. But we're still sitting in 0.25%. You're often sad about things that happen in the politics, but this is one of the things that makes me at least The saddest. Madam President. I don't see any reason to go on any further list of litigators. If this continued, it could be unsettled. That discussion awaits, and I would like to say at last that it is important that we have reached this brief period of at least I'm glad we're going to put some improvements in major lawsuits that I hope will make a difference. It is important that we also have the common understanding that we have many additional assignments that will await us in other circumstances. The discussion awaits, but I believe that this landing is far better than having attacked simple payment warrants. But I also say that the largest project ahead, I think, is to deal with the situation in the economy because, of course, for us to be able to stand up to all the structure that we agree on, whether in health, education, now or to provide extra money for developing cooperation, we need to run responsible economic policies and to be politically prepared to take action to deal with this process. We all know that these actions are not necessarily political popularity. However, it does matter so that seawaters can be kept and that we do not land on any other stool but at the same time make sure that we cherish the interior. So I'd like to say in the end, whatever people may think of a wide variety of revenues, I don't think that if we are going to reach these goals, it's gonna be over in the next few years. It may be like a dog. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir called for an answer, and she missed the proposal for our strict proposal of left green here earlier today for a resource fee. I agree with her. I think it's a perfect opportunity to deal with it in January, how we're going to make sure that the resource increases into social projects. But from now on, I think we are faced with an assignment that we will have to take action to cope with this economic situation. I think it will be just as important to try to create some agreement at the council on measures that will help us avoid economic degradation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u17	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for a fine speech. I need to start looking at all of this, but I actually agree with a lot of things that have happened on the side of the left green here today, whether they've been talking about health or education. In this counter and the next thing I'm going to focus on a little bit of work, but I'm going to come to the academics first. I agree that we should set these goals, set a clear policy on how we're going to make contributions to each student so that we can reach the OECD countries, hopefully in 2020, and then we can dream that we're going to reach the Northland limit of 2020, 1223 with responsible financial policy. I think we have to set such goals. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator spoke of the university organization. I hope I understood why. I agree with him that we need to look to the university planning organization, on the one hand, to wonder if both of us can deepen and improve cooperation and possibly unite college, and that's my question. A senator visualizes such things, however, that we consider ways that may include: The university officials have been talking about, and that is a natural political question that we need to cooperate with and at the scene with the university schools, which is how we have access to the university. I think it's important that we have him that opens up. But it remains that e.g. In other parts of the North, there is a limit to university access. As a result, each student's donations are higher. Popular applications at the Swedish University of 2008 remind me of 130 thousand. After that, 68 thousand people entered the Swedish University. There's another method in the North countries than there is at home. I think it was very important after the collapse that we opened the university, making it easier for people to study. [[The president calls.]] I think there was one of the key elements in the fact that we gained so much growth in recent years. That is why my question is, What exactly is that? When it comes to a university level organization, does a senator mean that he is thinking about it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u18	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for these questions. She asked about the unity of college. I have personally felt that the cooperation of a university in any way is very important, and I came to form an assignment in the Ministry of Education, which was the cooperation of the public university. The idea behind it was to make everything easier, and thus actually make it easier for these schools to teach e.g. Together, hold together for study sessions in view of the fact that we have seven university institutions, some of whom teach the same subjects. I want to say that it was very good experience with this network, although it was not at first, i.e. People were worried that it would take too long and so on. But what I've been told at least In time, people believe that this has been an important basis for increased cooperation, has created opportunities, and has led to some increased efficiency, e.g. for supported services, for computer systems and such. Then we'll get to it. A senator also mentioned. When we compare ourselves with Sweden, there is much greater agreement and cooperation, e.g. When it comes to typing students. I have put it into my mind when I have had the opportunity to have conversations with college students in recent years that it is very important that governments and the university community have a conversation about which organization we see in students' entrances, e.g. in certain articles, at a certain field of teaching. Sweden has a set number of students in certain fields. That is not entirely undisputed, according to the will of students. But that's a delicate question. The big thing about it, I think, is that if any of these changes happen, they have to be in very good cooperation. This can never be a one - sided decision by the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u19	Madam President. In many ways I agree with what was revealed in the answer to that question. Senator. But I think that it will be inevitable to look, too, in cooperation with the university, for further and more intensive cooperation and, as it were, harmony. In 2009, foreign counselors contributed to the so-called Taxesll report. I would also like to agree with what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator of the past and a special welcome to the National Arts University of Iceland. I think it is of enormous importance that the subject of the University of Art, which is incredibly valuable in the Icelandic university, will be taken even more seriously than has been done in recent years, and especially will be happy. I've come to my future business, about my work. I feel that, as I came to this point, fun and interesting and a certain experience, to see how the Congress is now working together through the budget and how the financial committees have done a great deal of good, and the classes have given a certain discount of their expertise to bring up the financial bill in a responsible way. In a sense, that is something new. I'd like to see a continuation of this kind of work, for the council to talk more. I'd like to ask you what. A senator with experience, though young: If she goes to government, we don't know what they're like today, how does she see a new government working together and cooperating with the council? How can you tell? A senator is able to adapt both within the council, but also in cooperation with the European Commission and the legislature?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u20	Madam President. I'll tell you what. A senator's experience is just as strong as the one listed here. She knows, as I do, that getting together at Congress can be a challenge. We have seen that it has not been easy now. However, special circumstances have made it possible for everyone to be ready for such a conversation. Therefore, at times I have referred to my experience in being in a minority government for a short time and again for a short time, although this was not necessarily done. As a result, I began to look at it to others. I remember. A senator was then in a position of government, but he proved to be a very good associate when it came to matters that were then known to the General and Education Committee. It may be a good lesson for those who at any given time make arrangements to have a conversation with the council to get them through. That makes things not exactly what you would have wanted them to be, but they may not be worse in the long run. Of course, this should also be possible in the case of majority government if the political will is present. On the other hand, we see that the majority of the talk has been immensely successful if we look to the Senate, i.e. taking matters through with more than one part of it because it can be done and because the other will always take a lot longer, and things aren't exactly what you want them to be. But I agree with what. A senator on this type of work, having to have a conversation between classes, first of all, must make things better for the entire public, even though there are some media involved, especially if there are fundamental changes in systems such as we have at times seen driving through a lot of overworked through the majority of cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u21	V.E.G. President. We will discuss a bill for the budget of 2017, but before I continue my case, I would like to thank you. Congress members on a budget for the hard work they've worked on these past few days to help raise this big issue. Time has been very short for this work, but the reason for it is known. First, I'd like to mention that the bill for 2017 continues to be built on the foundation that has been laid with unscrupulous financial laws for the past three years. The rise of the state funds has improved from year to year after the automatic debt collection was stopped by budgets of 2014 and is the budget for 2017 that is expected in the fourth row of state funds. More recently, paying off the debt of a state fund has been paid down, thus reducing the payments that the State needs each year. Reaching the debt of the State is of utmost importance to make room for more infrastructure, including that. The medical system, the welfare system, the education system, and the transportation system are mentioned. We can discuss whether it would have been easier to pay off debt and put more in the interior. However, it was the policy of paying off debt quickly, returning and maintaining inaccessible financial laws, but do not forget that there was a high priority for health and welfare during the last term. A respectable president. I would like to discuss some of these brief points. The budget has been working on its work these past few days. I'm going to start by discussing medical expenses, but, as I said earlier, my priorities for health care were set for my last term. However, after a long-term cutoff to a number of years, the financial needs had become enormous. Then I'm not blaming anyone or anyone, but it's been so many years. Thus, despite the existence of a health - care provider, the need is still there. As I say, most of the money that has gone to the medical facility has ended up a large and important organization that plays a major role. However, the need and role of regional health care institutions and the role of nursing homes throughout the country must be viewed as a whole. It is vital that we reduce the pressure of the Land Hospital to contribute more to the settlements and nursing homes in many parts of the country and work. so that the efflux problems that are present at the Land Hospital. The budget of 2017 funded for health care is well cared for. In fact, it is also shown in a bill for financial support that the whole system is being watched. A nursing home is being strengthened, increased to Hospitals, to health institutions in the country, and also to cut shops from certain institutions. But I'm going to be very happy right now that in these adjustments, funding is at last to make stage one for a change in the nursing home in Stykkisolmi. In the long term it will have a very positive effect on the Agency's management and also a positive influence on the department design and a much better influence on the facilities of the household and staff. All of us want good health care, so we want the best. We all want to improve the system. In this context, I would like to mention the importance of health policy development. The country must be looked all over, defined as a service to be performed at a land hospital, what services should be served by specialists in town, and what services should be performed in medical institutions in the country. In this policy, the population's ages, distances, transportation and various other factors should be considered. Such work should be done in consultation with those who work in the article and are familiar with the circumstances. In addition to this, it would be preferable to enter a healthcare programme on how health care institutions are appointed, i.e. that each station has a representative in the management board of the Agency. I'd also like to express my satisfaction that funds are placed in patient payment. I worked at what I was doing. During the last term, a welfare committee went through the committee and the council. Within the committee, finding a solution was an enormous cooperation. All members of the committee worked hard to find a solution. These are important steps taken, that no one pays more than 50,000 a year for medical care, and here we are meeting the long - suffering and seriously ill patients, many of whom have had high medical costs of illness. As I say, these are important first steps and in the future, it is worth putting more aspects of health care into the payment program, such as psychological expenses, dental costs, and increased medical costs, especially to those who have to travel long distances and many trips per year. Madam President. Next time, I'd like to talk a little bit about transportation. I have to celebrate. A legislature reached the back of an animal tunnel into the budget. It was very important to get them into the budget, for there is high hopes in the effects that the tunnel will have, including on a professional life on the fun. So it was a huge blow to discover that only 300 million were expected to do this next year, but this has been corrected and to have members of all categories of the committees very much appreciated the project. In addition to this, the next year's Emoticon Road is on budget, so I'm celebrating, as well as all the transport benefits introduced into changing schemes. A financial committee, of course, admits that we would have liked to see more money - more, who wouldn't? - Like, for example. I can thank you again for this. I'd like to discuss contributions to education, but over the past few years, we have made significant changes in our educational systems, including the U.S.A. with a shortening college course. In addition, money has been added to every student in high school in the country, but we need to keep adding so that we can reach the criteria we would like to compare with, OECD, and later the North countries. Change of plans. The legal committee is putting considerable funds into the schools. Increasing funding for high school, including the U.S. to do equipment purchases, as well as these are setting up funding for the University of Bifrost, a school that has been having problems in the past few years and is under added support. This is of utmost importance to the rural society and the powerful work being done at Bifrost, both in exchange for education and telecommunications, and will no doubt continue to have the positive effect on the rural society and the work being done on the Bifrost. At the same time, funding is being increased to Hóla, which is due to irrigation. A respectable president. The increased funding is put into the law enforcement business, and it is a pleasure to ensure that the police have to have good enough work conditions so that they can handle the many projects that turn it around the country all year round. It is suggested that the new national law programme is implemented with security, services, human resources and financial resources, but must be promptly completed, cooperated with it, and must be expected to have the results of a legal programme in the next government's budget. Besides, I have to mention a particular project being carried out at the Old Hospital at Isafjordur. This project is under the National Archives budget, but under budget for 2017, expenses to the museum are over 26 million more this year than they were in the last year. I hope that the National Archives will continue the important work being done at Isafjordur and have a base point in view of the distribution of funds and projects taken care of from the museum. Besides, I can't complete my case without discussing factors that are in the budget for 2017. Improvements in housing, contribution to building public rented apartments, and a significant increase in money to social security. They put in substantial amounts of money to raise the pay of older citizens who have household supplies up to 280 of yours. K. ... abouttheyearandabout 300 of you. K. ... atthenextyeartime. These increases are in accordance with the lowest remuneration and are consistent with micro-organism with specific supplementation, with the same elevation. In this speech, however, I have to guess that the new disposal system changes only reach the elderly, which means that the payoff of all incomes is 25 up. K. During the month and contrast, a penny is against the loss of a cent, the pay groups of social security are combined, and one impairment is opposed. This system change does not occur in microorganisms, for that was not at peace between the Quantum Community and the State. I hope that peace is achieved as soon as important system changes can be achieved by microorganization, such as the elderly. But they need to be settled between parties, with trust in each other. However, while these changes have not passed through, the same reserves of vacations have been maintained and have been maintained but are to continue to be given to the seminar, as is currently done, as has been the entire last term. Finally, I'd like to say that me and the rest of the candidates want to make a system change on tax issues and on child reforms and growth reforms. We spoke about it during the recent campaign campaign. However, as we talked about in the campaign, they need to start a team of experts who offer the suggestions, and we feel that this is a reasonable way to work the case well and in a complete way. The proposals turn to less enforcing the middle class, that those who make money pay more taxes, and that child reforms become biger, and that they are earmarked, not parents. This work must be carried out in a particular process before offering suggestions on this during concierge treatment and in complete cooperation with experts. But now I go to finish my speech, as I said above, I'd like to thank you. Council members of a budget board for their hard work. I know there's a legal code. All had to give something, but these are financial provisions that are done under special circumstances. It's a management board that puts forward the budget and therefore no more personal items at the council. It should therefore be welcomed that it has succeeded and that everyone has a reason. The committees appreciate it. This often pays off partnerships, and it can certainly result in success.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u22	Madam President. On the basis of new laws on public finance, public trust was given and more discipline was introduced into a strategy, focusing on long - term economic stability. And even if we're in 2nd. The budget, when the bill has only been in Congress for over two weeks, must be stated at the outset of my case that a financial committee has done a great job under very unusual circumstances. The key point is that all the main objectives of the State budget from the last spring onward. Waste on budgets up to 1% of land production is continuing to be expected. The next year's state funds debt is still expected to be paid in terms of balance plans. And the expansion of basic services and increased investments in important social infrastructure, such as transport, remains to be expected. All the basics of the government that are underlying on the bill in this issue demonstrate beyond any doubt that we are on the right track, we are definitely going ahead. There is something else to keep in mind in this discussion, the economic conditions that exist today in society. Economic life marks the framework within which government capitals must be stored. Today, much is desirable, and most practical ones point in the right direction. We also have a bill for budgets, where between the years of the State's income is growing very much along with large expenditures in virtually every area. Here is a small inflation, economic growth, and a significant increase in commercial growth in the public has been observed in recent years. In addition, the nation's foreign debt has not been in itself, and there is a handsome wealth in our business dealings with foreign countries. It's all very positive news. Although the road ahead is relatively straight and wide, we are sure to face challenges, just as driving becomes much more difficult as the speed of the car increases. The country's growth rate is high, the economy is behind the recent pay raise, and the high level of the crescent is putting considerable pressure on all productions in the country. In addition, Madam President, there is turmoil in a labour market that may be shown solely that the seaman strike has been going on for one week. It is a truly serious news, and the strike will soon cause the world to be unsatisfactory and has already caused many peoples all over the country. This warning sign in front of us is not an option for us to lose control of the money. I hear this conversation a lot of great things. Councilmen come up here to discuss where to add, extra expenses, where to expand and increase the rest. Actually, I don't think there's any part of the budget bill, so if you think about it, that doesn't seem to be indepth. I'm sure you're absolutely right. I'm not going to argue that I'm sure there's a need to put more money on good subjects in all things. I warn, however, that we will get ahead of ourselves and spend time on material things. If we clean up the government's expenses at the same time as the income increases, we'll be in serious trouble when we make money together. They will, at some point in the future, merge, it will relax the production potential in the economy. Especially will there be great trouble if the upcoming period we now live in is not new to pay off the debt of the state. Happily, we are on that schedule, paying off the debt of the State, and we need to continue to do so. Some feel that the solution to everything is to increase taxes, increase income, fight for more money, like one hook. A senator said earlier today. All you have to do is raise taxes enough so you can do anything for everyone. It's relatively simple. I say, there is one catch of that solution, one thing that is that the wonderful solution - it doesn't work. It doesn't work like this. Higher taxes reduce social value and eventually reduce government income. We already have, unfortunately, still too much tax on people and businesses. The public economy is already a major concern, especially if we look for a ratio of land production. If we go further, we simply press on to production, tightening our business. It also reduces the competitiveness of industry and international commerce, and it just leads to a lower standard of living. What, then, can be done to meet all these requirements for increasing, expanding, building, and improving? We do not go to large expenses at will, beyond what has already been set up in the Committee to Reunctorship. Nor can we increase taxes in order to increase our income, since this actually leads to a reduced income. What can be said is simply to follow the policy that has been established, including it. ... into a national budget plan from the last spring and this budget bill is based on, slowly improving, progressively, making financial contributions, subsidies, thus reducing interest costs, and thus making further space to improve government management and meet the need for investment. Such government responsibilities thus contribute solely to the stability of the economy, promoting real growth, and further valuable creation. This is the key to our continuing to build up the welfare system. Then there's chapter two, Madam President, in this discussion, i.e. how we employ the money that the government fund has to employ. How should we set our priorities for limited funds? It's a change in plans from what it's made. The existing legal committee provides us with a clear indication of how we can develop a greater solidarity on priorities within the range of options considered reasonable. The suggestions from what? The legal committee has a direct focus on promoting law enforcement, education, transportation, and, above all, the health system. At the same time, certain measures are taken on the income side and donations are reduced in other factors. I believe the committee worked well and guided the right points. I'd also like to mention, specifically, when discussing priorities on limited resources, that we always remember that all our local funds have to be used anywhere in the country, that people are not discriminated upon when it comes to providing basic government services or to support important social services. This is true of litigation groups, such as I came into the past, transportation, education, and health. As a result, it is a pleasure to see that negotiations are on important projects, such as the animal tunnel, which is a very important procedure, not just for Westerners, but for all people, trust farm conditions, and trust in all the conditions for further construction that benefit all the people of the country. I also mention the construction of nursing homes and the support of health services throughout the country, additional contributions to law enforcement and education institutions, such as high school and university, as well as new so - called projects, e.g. the work of people's schools and other research projects. This is an important part of confidence in farm conditions and support in the national work structure. Finally, it has been said that the difference between left and right persons is that left men want the state to be so powerful that they can do everything for everyone while the right person may fear that such a powerful kingdom can easily take people away. This may be a part of the application of a discussion on the budget bill and perhaps some ideological differences between members of the council. The danger is that if we fall into the temptation to do everything for everyone, all of it will immediately be snatched away by people because of economic instability and the insurrection that is inevitable. The circumstances that exist today in terms of government affairs, employment markets, and the economy as a whole are in order to put considerable pressure on us senators to handle the next year's budget with reason and responsibility. I believe that the bill as it is now means well enough to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u23	Madam President. First, I want to thank the members of a budget board for their work in payment of the changes in budgets for 2017. As we know, budgeting is all equal political document of every government and even though we live under the unique circumstances that at the council there is no more government or less part of it, it is indeed political, despite the fact that it is promoted by a government that does not rely on more parts at the General Assembly. This is certainly to be found in the economic policy of an advanced government and an independent class because economicism, financial planning, and financial law of each year are, as I said, the most important, political, government policy documents of any time, and the focus of the respective governments that determine whether society should be equal and social security. It is certainly a cause for rejoicing in this situation that members of the Parliament have agreed to expand their spending budgets on a big nation - torn situation. This is where there has been an agreement on important improvements in health, education, and transportation. I thank the legal committees for gaining that approval of the emphasis. I'd also like to thank you especially for the fact that additional contributions were made to IRS and tax research, which have been highly required in the community and not unfashioned following the information presented in the Panamas. By this agreement among representatives of different and in various ways contrasting political institutions with the contents of changing financial committees, members of the Parliament showed that we are ready to accept our responsibility for the community and compromises were needed under the prevailing circumstances. Of course, the work of the budget board and its agreement on key issues in the main categories does not cover the highest demands and the main focus of the left movement, a green offer that would have chosen to give stronger and more explicit emphasis in line with the financial and social policies of the State. But here, all classes have had to make according to their highest standards, and special circumstances are calling for all classes of compromises. It is wish that when a new government is formed, that government will show courage, determination, and courage to make good decisions in the most urgent categories of matters for our benefit, as well as for the best possible service when it comes to the health, education, and welfare systems, and especially when it comes to climate and environment, developing cooperation, and the affairs of refugees. I can't afford to point to any disappointments found in the budget for 2017. This is to form the urgent need for a professional response to the expansion in today's economic system. Few people can hide that there is an urgent need for serious economic measures that will take into account the large and clear sensations in the economy that will cause untold problems if they are not taken firmly. The economic standards published in November will reduce the rate of economic growth over the years. And we see a wide range of clear and classics, swollen real estate markets, job market tensions, and a huge import that appears in less than 100 billion goods exchanges this year as a major service exchange for tourism. More signs cause anxiety, such as the fact that the basis for lower inflation is explained by most of the lower oil prices and global prices. Under these delicate circumstances, the responsible government of government is being tested. Large, if not the largest, economic responsibility for those in charge, in the years that follow, the government's budget is not merely to pay off the debt of state funds but to do everything possible to make up as much effort as possible to live up to the responsibilities of the state itself. The mission is to direct our needed resources into the priorities of all our health, education, welfare, transportation, and environment. Sadly, there are no significant measures to address the spell in the available budget. So, as previously signed, it is that not all of us are involved here but our responsibility on international, climate, and environmental issues are greatly neglected by the 2017 financial bill. Clearly, responsible governments need to set up a reliable and ambitious plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and not just that, but responsible governments have to stick to the plan with adequate financial resources, which are in accordance with our international commitments, such as the historical Paris convention. It is not enough to hold beautiful speeches and lyrics, but knees need to follow their abdomen, and money is needed to follow up international commitments. A recent 2014 OECD report on environmental effectiveness in Iceland shows that carbon and tax on gasoline, diesel and oil are generally lower inlands than in other countries. And in an even new OECD report, the worldwide carbon bill is about 80% too low to have the desired effect on emissions. The state of the environment in this country is therefore important to increase the budget for environmental research, protection and the communication of environmental information. I'm sorry that climate and environment were not among the areas of agreement to stress the work of the legal committee now, in December 2016. It is clear, therefore, that climate and environment are among the most important solutions of a new government and wish that the government that will take over impose more emphasis on these important issues than the current budget does. But again to the agreed and relevant areas in which a solid agreement was reached, i.e. Health, education, transportation and law enforcement and security. These categories contain the most vehement and effective changes made by a legal body. The left movement ▪ The green supply provides a solid support for the changes proposed to improve health and education status of the health system. Granted, we may not have a problem here, but this addition is an important step to correct the urgent health and education problems. Sadly, as we all know, the deteriorating health and health - care facilities in Iceland have led to much disagreement in the community. The left movement receives a green supply of 86,000 signed individuals who require that donations to health become 11% of GDP each year, and thus be comparable to what happens elsewhere in the North countries. The need and plight of the Land Hospital are greatly weighed down in the health - care department, so there is an increasing budget for the national hospital to improve, although they are not sufficient to meet the urgent need for the members of the hospital. So the National Hospital keeps seawater from adding. The use of funds is still short enough for real structure to begin. For other health institutions and contributions to them, it is certainly not enough to make allowances for the body of legal committees, although it is a delight to have some measure of solidarity taken up in that direction. Of course, when it comes to extra school affairs, you can be happy to be able to add money to the whole school system, both high school and university levels, and it is quite successful. However, more targeted measures are needed to ensure that contributions to each university student's average OECD, followed by increases in Iceland's ability to equal the number of countries of the north with the approved policies of the Scientific and Technical Council. Once again, I hope that a new government will do better than can be seen in a budget bill for 2017 as well as in the amendment of the budget board. With regard to high school matters, it is important that high school be open to all people, not just those less than 25 years of age. An increase in donations is needed for each student without any thought - provoking action that is a mass limit. The professional independence of high school needs to be assured, enabling smaller schools throughout the country to have a wide range of educational opportunities. 400 million, as a financial committee, are surely improved in order to achieve them goals, but more is needed. Of course, when it comes to supplementary transport to 4.5 billion, it is important, although it is far from enough to finance a recent transport program adopted at the General Assembly. Indeed, the need to do better when it comes to the necessary maintenance and development of the country's road structure, which has been able to cope with economic pressures in times of growing stress on the road system throughout the country. The country's increased tourist currents have had to say about the growing pressures, especially in small districts that receive hundreds of thousands of visitors each year. The country's roads are increasing and the lack of maintenance of the last few years are also causing more traffic accidents than before, unfortunately, with the pressures for the police all over the country. Thus, it is imperative that a four - year - old transport program be fully financed by the Allied Council for the autumn of 2016, which included the protection of up to 100 billion dollars. for transport improvements in its timeliness. The assessment by representatives of the left movement is ◯ green supply that the need for money for this group of subjects is at least 13 billion. However, our assessment of the agreement that has been made to deal with all the most urgent transport projects is now possible. It should also be welcomed that certain reforms are contributed to tax control and, as previously said, tax research an important step in dealing with the ills of tax subsidies in society. Therefore, it is urgent to strengthen the institutions of the state of government that use tax control and to further research and to react to tax fraud. These matters should have been handled more strongly and added to their interest, although they are certainly to be welcomed by the additional ones of the 2nd suit. The Icelandic government is to participate in a handsome development team and large contributions to the seminary to meet the UN target of 0.7% of GDP. The Icelandic government supports this objective in words but does not show it because Iceland's donations are now only 0.25% of the gross domestic product and for the year 2021 an increase is negligible. We need to abandon ambition's policy and do much better in a time when the United Nations has a historic claim to the nations to do better when it comes to humanitarian efforts in a time of great conflict and weather phenomena such as extreme droughts, water shortages, and crop failures, which mean tremendous migrations that are hardly precedentd in human history. In these areas, we need to be in our own business so eager to maintain our place in a global donation. We have a moral obligation to do our part as a civilized and wealthy nation. In January 2017, there are 47 refugees from Syria who are part of the 103 government officials who decided in September 2015 to respond to the request of the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees. The concern is that the budget needs funding to receive it. The relative will have a new home in this country, so it is necessary to bring the funds to the rural communities that receive them. The nine families that come in number and move to three rural areas, all of whom assume this contribution. The first issue will be handled, allowing rural communities to receive their Syriac families in the same way that has been done so far. The affairs of the country's trustrs need to be reassigned and equaled to their situation and to the so - called vagrantists when it comes to adjustment for the community after asylum has been provided. It is important to ensure the proper implementation of new foreigners, who are now functioning for years with sufficient financial resources and resources. It's my wish, a respectable president, and I think I can claim that I speak for many of my associates in the left movement, a green supply, that a new government does better than the budgeted by 2017 in various lawsuits that touch us all, while at the same time I welcome the solidarity of the necessary lawsuits in the steps and decisions taken by the committee of the financial committees. So I support the changes made on the part of it, wishing that a new government would do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u24	President. Thank you. A senator for a very good speech. I can agree that the budget is much better after an agreement was made to improve in different important places. I would like to ask the senator, however, because I have experienced it and have heard from other members of the council, especially new members, that they feel very uncomfortable with the way we are making uninformed decisions. I'm very afraid there's no team there. It's, for example. neither do we expect enough money to be afforded to capitalists nor do we seem to have any proper policy on how many people we are going to respond to. There has been a distress call from a number of institutions and agencies who have worked on making our community better for our most vulnerable groups. As a result, I would like to ask him why. A senator how to correct the mistake that is known to be already in these budgets because of speed. It's just never happened, except some decades ago that funding has been so rushed through the Generals that there is no time to formally accept or receive comments and be given suggestions on what might be done better, let alone a proper review of the points made by the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u25	I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree with her words and criticism of this rate of speech, but as I said before, we live under unique political circumstances and work on a financial committee that will normally take about an hour and a half to two months, this work will be done in two weeks under great pressure and at great speed. As I mentioned at the outset, the emphasis was on trying to make peace with the major seismic parties, i.e. Health, welfare, education, and transportation. I agree with her that we had wanted to see more of what we had done in other litigation groups. I made it clear about developing cooperation and humanitarian assistance that we truly need to do much better than pay the budget for 2017. I just think it's embarrassing how the Icelandic state does things in these matters. I find it shameful that we will not contribute to the development of our efforts in connection with the United Nations historic appeal to all the nations of the world to expand their humanitarian efforts for war, drought, and migration. When it's time to do this, we don't do our part in international cooperation. Regarding refugees and refugees, I also agree with the senator's comments that we need to respond. We need to shoulder our responsibility in the international community when it comes to receiving refugees, not just welcome, but the affairs of foreigners over their heads. We have a lot more to offer here than is now. We need to raise our money to this party. I sincerely hope that, whenever a new government is formed, it will do much better in that case than it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u26	President. I appreciate the answer. Of course, a person sincerely hopes that a new government will improve and correct what has obviously been greatly distorted in the legal matters presented here. Unfortunately, my experience with Congress is that your hope does not evict you far, for often you have been deeply disappointed by what promises often used in the controversies of elections seem to be soon forgotten. I have, for example. Very concerned about the position of many older citizens and disability. We have received pleas from these groups to make certain adjustments, but it seems that we have not been able to respond to the pleas now. I fear very much because of the speed on the budget bill as well as the financial aid law that it will be too long to respond to the call from these groups. Today, too, the lack of time for income gain could not be agreed on, so it is concluded that such measures cannot be taken at such a short time until the end of the year. Of course, such measures can be taken and suggested later on. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she believes that it is using the exact wording that is always being done here is somehow being overlooked the truth in order to avoid saying things the way they are. I was surprised to see the attitudes that came to my mind during the discussion of the early fund or of income - gathering pathways. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator what she believes can be done to be more effective than just to hope that people will act in behalf of a nation after a year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u27	Thank you. A senator for those words. Maybe I'm better hope than that. A senator who says that it doesn't float far. But I want to hold on to hope. That's one reason why I'm standing here in this chair, offering myself to work here for this council, that's why I want to keep hoping that things could be changed for the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u28	...the law of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u29	Yeah, I'm just talking in general. Hv. A senator entered the interest of the elderly and the poor. Indeed, many things are still lacking in the terms of older ones'interest and poverty. The left movement's policy is that the pension payments for the elderly and the disability of the elderly should be carried out with pay on the labour market and that the budget should be adjusted accordingly. In terms of the revenue process, I would also like to point out that in this budget bill, which is the political document of the Independence Party and the Front Party, the fact that the current management gave away the potential for income up to the estimated 50 to 60 billion. For that money, there would have been a lot to do, quite a lot of it as a boy. A senator mentioned. I'm still hopeful. I'm still hoping that we can find a way to add to the classes. A senator mentioned, and I agree with her that we need to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u30	A respectable president. When I first step into the Public Assembly, we are well along on the budget for the 2017 budget. There is a familiar tone in the discussion, with a number of big and small projects missing. So, as we have seen, budgeting is presented under unusual circumstances and accepting funding for the coming years is therefore a considerable test for the elected representatives of the Council. The well-being is and has been one of our co-edents, reforms for citizens. Of course, that applies to other political parties that are compatible that before the last election, they all promised to start a new era of growth in community infrastructure, especially in educational and health matters. It cannot be denied that in recent years health care has been seen and our weapons have not yet been reached because of economic collapse. Yet, there have been efforts to strengthen the business of major institutions. Most important of all, a land hospital is a health care center in which we trust. There, people are deeply ambitious in their constant building work, often in a more narrower way than they themselves choose. It should be noted that health matters are very complex and multi-cultural and that understanding the mechanism of action of major institutions, such as the Land Hospital, is not a coward. A respectable president. A recent report, published in September, often taught by Mckinsey evaluated some aspects of Icelandic health care and the lights directed to Land Hospitals, Management, Production, Expansion, and Expansion in comparison with foreign hospitals. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir cut off the subject of the report earlier during the discussion. In short, it was found that the National Hospital was the most difficult period since 2008, both in the quality of the ministry and in the general work, where workers worked - but under great pressure. The report also shows that the business is much less adverse than the Swedish control hospitals. The report also points to things that could be more successful in the operation and in a more practical way, even for the whole system. These include a combination of personnel, hospital walkers, how graduation is done, progressive work, and communication with other health - care institutions, tasks that are, of course, constantly important to managers. However, what is emphasized in Mckinsey's summary, and I feel that it's out of control, it's the opinion that policy is lacking in national hospitals and Icelandic health care as a whole. However, that work will be started at the Ministry. The report gives the advice that now that we see the sun in our economy, it is urgent to set a course before making more money and in unsurpassed ways into our health system. This is the great challenge for the whole country, and the role of land hospitals is important because it is a national hospital that has its place well but in the light of new technology, new definitions needed to meet the call of time. The careful and transparent cost assessment, the cost analysis for all health institutions, is part of a major improvement. No one is buried - and I'd like to stress - that the Landspians are now living in a narrower budget than the managers believe acceptable and even indicate that the hospital is not able to change its legal functions. The word of government officials is taken seriously, but the conclusion of a budget bill reflects the ability of the Generalis to improve the environment of the Land Hospital. Only part of the Union's conflict in these materials could be achieved. This would have meant adding more money to the work of Land Hospital and other health institutions. Health services are being given to many people in Iceland than at Land Hospital, so we must not forget. We have well - equipped medical facilities in all quarters of the country that have had a difficult cutdown in recent years, especially less than the land's Hospital. They carry most of their grief silently, but they are enormously important units in their region, working on varied and important tasks, but their problems are less difficult to find in the ears of the masses. The relationship between these institutions with the two hospitals of the country, with Iceland's Land Hospital, the Hospital in Akureyri, is a matter of life and the McKinsey report points out that they should make a clear connection and cooperation. Then there is one of the most important aspects of health care, the basic services, the health care that we should give more space in our discussion. This key link is to be the most valuable support of health care in the country, but unfortunately it stands in palaces, both in the capital area and in the region. It is certain that there is a great deal of willingness on the part of a health minister to rebuild the medical facility. This re - creation requires new resources and more money. As a result, the work of health care is responsible and rewarding; changes and developments in the process and practices of working and developing professional fleas form a powerful team in their work. The objective is that each family in its neighbouring environment can obtain a good solution for their general health problems, whether for the soul or for the body. Preservation and important public health projects include those used by health care, which are the factors that may be used to control. most of the way we get angry with our health in the long run. Good health care and schools also have considerable resources on people's habitats and even on how we have developed in our fine land, which we have observed to the extent of a financial wave. Yes, a respectable president, we would like to discuss health matters very emotionally, and that is not unusual. It is a lawsuit that meets all of us directly in the heart, sometimes in the absolute sense. This has to do with the basics of life, life itself, and is now destroying opportunities with a new government to advance and improve health issues, to set sound policies, and to increase budgets. Icelandic society has the capacity to be more comfortable with important welfare issues. You see, we have enjoyed extraordinary economic prosperity for a time after the recent catastrophes. Seaways have done very well, and production is prospering, bringing economic gains to companies. Travel services are small, but they make a lot of money. There's another million visitors coming to the country all year long. This is the case at Christmas and New Year's Eve. Business and trade flourish, and projects increase progressively, and there is a great demand for people; there is no use in Icelandic hands. It is naturally asked whether this nation is not happy and happy, whether everyone is not happy and has enough for himself, that family members enjoy success and security, training and school institutions are flourishing in their work, having enough credit for those who have completed a long day of work, who are desperate to maintain their dignity with adequate living, maintaining health care, and other public infrastructure, transportation, and health service, adequate or even excellent. A respectable president. Sadly, as one week's reported report on the children's population, corruption itself is being found too widely. A number of Icelanders live in want. It is a dark spot in Icelandic society that thousands of people regularly search for relief agencies to obtain food, not just before Christmas. Let it not go out of our minds that over 6,000 children in Iceland live in poverty, and still others are thought to be at risk. That's even. These children who will share in molding society in the future - and how will they feel about righteousness? A respectable president. We sit with 63 members of the Council. There should not even be 63 poor children in all of Iceland. There should not be any poor children in Iceland, and it's in this field, at the General Assembly of Iceland, that we can change, improve the quality and equipment of those who live on a very large object. That's what we made a promise for elections, all political parties. This is possible, we can afford and on, let us focus and unite in the future election period to promote greater justice and reasonableness for all of our subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u31	Mr. President. I want to turn my words into the side room. I know it's not customary to give an answer to a virgin talk. I hope so. paritaprevir Brjánsson's son, forgive me for my misdeeds. As a matter of fact, I don't think I'm doing anything wrong to him. We're both a couple of Akureyries, nice partners in the short hours we've worked here together. Hv. A senator mentioned mental health issues. I have come to realize that among him, mental health is especially important. As early as the first day of the council, a controversy proposal was submitted, at the same time. paritaprevir The Guðjón - given capacity of Brjánsson was among the traders, who served as mental - health professionals in high school. For the reason that I've been working my career for the past 18 years in Icelandic high school. I have watched too many promising youths become mentally ill and have abandoned study. It is heavier than tears to see after the promising people. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator may see that mental - health professionals of the Land Hospital of a U.S. university hospital might be obliged to take part in some of their high school responsibilities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u32	A respectable president. Thank you for your anti-sponsor. That is correct, this has been a concern for many years, psychological services, and mental - health services in general. At clinics, we are following the first steps in general in this regard, for last year we were given authority to hire psychiatrists for health care. We will be attracted to the communities where high school schools are active that high school management worries are caused by high school evaporation. This milestone in young people's lives, even the transition from high school to high school, is a time of metabolism. These are very difficult challenges that the schools have faced in various ways, some even in their difficulties changed places of Bible students into some sort of psychological service, but this is an important factor. Whether or not we can oblige the Land Hospital to do this, I don't think so. I don't think we can force the Land Hospital to do that. I believe, however, that one of the roles of the national hospital, that we need to make better shapes, to serve the whole country, on the grounds of the country's settlement, and in the vicinity of its population. This has been done on several levels, most by informal means, but I think we should do it. I don't think this song is going to work out unless we do this in a good deal with Land Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u33	A respectable president. I'd like to add a few excellent discussions about budgets for 2017 and to discuss in particular this unusual situation in which we are in, that both of us are putting up budgets made by the management board on very short notice, which are spoken of as official financial laws, i.e. To a large extent, financial policies from an advanced government were violated. Congress has had especially a short time to work on these budgets and, in fact, much less access to the budget than we are used to. At the same time, we have attended a council without any clear details, i.e. control and opposition have not been defined. We can see this most closely, for the six committees are all considered to be minors. As a result, all the seven members of the council and all the representatives of the budget have had to agree on the change of the budget and agree to compromise, finding a solution that no one is in heaven, but all can reasonably accept. It's amazing, but we're here on December 22nd and we're in 2nd. ... aboutthelaws. In many respects, this is historic. I'd like to talk about it only from the fact that with a new law on public finance and that new methodology with a financial programme until a few years into the future, we are breaking into the Icelandic financial environment and in Icelandic politics. I know this well from the local government, where during the years I worked in the city of Reykjavík, we were working on new rural laws and financial regulations that were being called for a much clearer and more rigid plan and preparation at work, and for the first time, the local communities were required to make three and five years of plans. What we now see in the budget work that we may have, at least I have heard about it in some speakers today, have been more quick to take up time, and that there was no clear more of it, but we see the consequences of the work done in the development of a budgetary committee and the activities of the council for a few weeks or months before a final discussion of funds has less impact on the structure of budget and the financial policies involved. In the end, there is one of the greatest government policies on how money will be spent and therefore how projects are set out and carried out. I'd kind of like to, you know, a respectable President, to celebrate this ineffable. I'm thrilled to see such a transformation in our work, even though we're doing this for the first time and learning how to run. The methodology of developing a five - year financial programme, which actually has a landmark policy in the litigation categories, has set priorities for the class without the use of detailed details and being assigned here and there, down to the smallest of projects, is a method that most countries we are applying to are long ago adopted and exemplary. This is a methodology that increases visuality, transparency and safety in planning and better access. This is something we Icelanders are learning. We've been having a bad time setting a course. We are, perhaps understandable of the story here on an island on the north side, accustomed to reacting to changing circumstances. We're always fishing when we have a shot, saving hay before the storm comes, etc. That bad habit has followed us even in as complex and extensive projects as the government's budget. It has to be said, as it is, that the Icelandic economy, the century of the Icelandic gangs through the years, is a violent roller coaster against a famine in the Icelandic economy, has taught us only that it is an excellent methodology, i.e. Allowing a bit of anger to work out what kind of reaction you might face. But this is not a way to run a financial system, not a way to organize the economy. We've tried and fought to break the foundation of the Icelandic economy. When I was a young man, the fishing export was a basic prelude to Iceland's prosperity, about two-thirds of the U.S. exporters' exports. A good or bad year in war with the country all affected whether this was a good economy or not. Happily, we have been able to provide additional support for the economy, a more varied source of support. We are probably experiencing the awesome explosion in the tourist industry a new era in which we experience too much money and not a lack of it. This will have a major impact on the economy over the years. But at the same time, we don't plan it. We have not taken large mails, such as tourism, the innovation industry, the technology industry, the new Icelandic economy support, we do not have wide-spread policies with wide and clear access to them. As a result, we are always a little out of the way and respond to circumstances. I hope, and that's why I said earlier that I welcomed this terrible change, that public finance law, the new financial methodology, the longer strategy, will enable us to organise the Icelandic economy, and plan our projects more carefully. This is true of the major lawsuits, who, to a large extent, monopolizeed the debate in the campaign, which was primarily the health system, followed by the education system, the affairs of young people. All units agreeed with the campaign. No matter where you came from, all colleagues agreed that there was a need for a special battle in the health and education system, to look particularly at the issues of young people and the future, in job creation, in housing, in financial stability, and in connection with the matter of success, etc. But it has to be said that, as it is, we are still trapped in taking the old budget, watching the expenses there, cirling plus and minus, finding out where we are lacking and then trying to fill in and then, unfortunately, still a tendency for us senators to try to save things even to the smallest units in order to save some worthy project we know of or have been specifically suggested. We have not yet learned the new tactics that we have begun to infiltrate. However, it is a great pleasure to be here and to share in offering financial laws that, although no one is fully satisfied with them, are agreed on by proposals. A respectable president. I didn't intend to extend this meeting in particular. I just wanted to come in to the change that's going to be. It is not just because we are in this unusual situation, having a short time in the budget, and working without a clear control point. It's more news than that. How happy they are! But at the same time, my dear fellow members, I insist that we need to be careful and keep our eyes wide open about how we work in this new environment. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It was about a lot of interesting things. I'll notice. A senator speaks of a new method of working on this budget, and I agree with it. A senator that now we are doing this work in a lot of running and an excessive amount of work in my opinion. I think it's like we're getting ourselves a corner now and getting us for a Christmas corner where we seem to be moving on for Christmas holidays, preferably today, instead of looking carefully at what really is involved in this agreement. Because I dare bet a few shillings that everyone sitting here who will vote with or against this matter won't fully know what they're paying votes. New work ethic, sure. But now the question arises, Is the right thing to do? Whether we really have this so - called transnational agreement to achieve all the things we think we are achieving. I don't think we've done enough research and made enough sure, especially the land area of the Land Hospital. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Is he sure that the budget bill will do enough to make sure that the National Hospital doesn't have to operate in surgery? To make sure that the Landspians don't have to start divulging jobs after a New Year's Eve?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u35	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. At first, I'd like to agree with what. A senator that certainly are the new tactics I was celebrating, certainly we are doing this quickly. We're working here, not only on less time but probably ever before or at least for decades, but in a new way that makes work harder. It makes that yes, indeed, things are probably not as clear as they could be. And as I mentioned in the talk, this new methodology, to win funding based on a financial program that is to begin with the first one that the government has done, and therefore a new operation when the financial programme itself is submitted, let alone the work of building budgets on such methodology, we are doing so for the first time as well, and we are responding to it at the council in a very short time. I just want to say that it would be easier to have more time. I mean, the deadline for us is not in any agreement on the end of Christmas. Rather, it's the primary time zone for years left in a few days, so even though we were here more and less until New Year's Eve, we would be winning things much faster and in less time than usual. Regarding the second part of the question, about the financial contributions to the Land Hospital, I have to admit that I am not on a financial committee and that the hospital is less than ever spoken of as needed. But I have no less than the words of a financial committee, that what is being suggested, especially by the addition, should at least be kept gone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's often said that a week is a long time in politics. Now we have about a week left of this otherwise rather low year, 2016. In view of the fact that we're all learning new tactics and most of the people in this room, or at least more of ours, recent members of the council, and so on, that all members of the council who sit here, older and more experienced, are also learning new schemes with this fictitious structure, feel sharp. So a senator does not have reason to take the extra days we have until the yeardays to go over the budget to be assured that we are not making some mistake simply because all of us are just dealing with this financial bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u37	A respectable president. The person standing here is one of the members of Congress who knows nothing better than to be here at the Assembly Hall and the Assembly Hall. I'd personally be glad to stay as long as I can. I'm not entirely sure, however, that it would necessarily reach the desired conclusion, or rather, but I'm not sure that it would change the way it works. Although a week is a long time in politics, that doesn't mean we're all going to learn all the budget outside or do something special for the benefit that has already been done, in short periods of time, certainly. But I know it's been a really good job. Although most, well, we're setting records, aren't we? In recent release at the General Assembly, we know and have seen the weeks after the council met that these new recruits are just very well chosen. I trust them completely to do well even if they are new to me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. Óttar Proppér, a senator, gave an interesting talk. I am one of those infamous recruits in this hall, and I am particularly concerned with health care. Health issues are the issues the majority of Icelanders put in charge of the last election. I'm not from the fact that the votes of the people were determined on the basis of the promises given by those classes. The homepage of Bright Future is on, and now I'm going to pray. A senator looking this out a little bit to me: And more for the varied management and services forms in the welfare system and different school functions than I am, in fact, not asking about it now, mostly the welfare system -- new ideas so that people have more choice, which is good for all. ▪ This has been done with good results. And please note: (I beg you) I apologize, a respectable president, I hereby offer direct quotations, and I forgot to ask permission for it. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - does not mean access to people's service should not remain equal. That's the key. Now it's starting to look sharp. [[The president calls.]] Landstained University Hospital, where the business is in irons. Private business is picking up the weather. What is the future policy of Bears on private health care?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u39	The President reminds me of why. The speakers are to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u40	A respectable president. I thank the senator, who, in some respects, correctly mentioned that a bright future has been a positive subject of varied health care practices. But so I'll explain better: There is no secret way to lie against the infamous and cooling of personalization in the system, but on the contrary, we believe that the diversity of the management sector and the services of the health system, as in other systems, is important not only to offer choices but also to offer certain competitions in different shapes. We're familiar with the health and health system with many examples of different management forms. The best examples may be found in the world of aging services, firms such as suspected and Frenchist, self - possession institutions have proved to be a very successful methodology for welfare and health systems. On the other hand, I would like to state that it did not appear in the part of the Bjart's strategy that the senator read that it is clear in Bjart's health policy that we do not feel that welfare services should be run for profit. A bright future does not exist and does not plan to, and does not press on to increase the level of personal growth in the health sector for financial gain, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u41	Mr. President. I apologize for crossing the deadline earlier. Thank you. paritaprevir Óttar of Proppér for clear and clear answers. As I mentioned earlier in answer to a virgin speech. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brjánsson is a mental - healthist for me for various reasons, not just to young people, but to older ones. One of our council members, Gunnar Hrafn Jónsson, has taken a health permit for depression. Happily, such a disease is no longer a shy matter, and it is well. I'm asking why. paritaprevir Óttar Proppér, he asked for a slight review of the future course of Brighter Mental Health.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u42	A respectable president. I appreciate your interest in the future's policy, but with the passing of time, I'll tell you why. Councilmen, and other monitors, at the health policy of Brighter's future on the category's homepage. I agree with what. A member of the body says that there is a truly positive change in mental - health issues now becoming part of the health system and the discussion of health. On the other hand, at some point I have been driven by the need in political context to recognize that both souls and teeth are part of the body. This is part of what I discussed in my talk, and we need a broad range of health policies over our heads. We need to look at the tribe from the beginning. Part of it is to focus more on public health, health care, etc. [[The president calls.]] So I'm celebrating this tip, and I hope that it's me and him. The senator will discuss these matters extensively in this hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u43	Mr. President. Thank you for a good speech by night. Senator. But this made me think, as it has happened several times earlier in this discussion all over the world, a discussion of a new business on the construction of financial resources. It is now that government matters are one of the alpolitics that is produced and developed and adopted at each council. It presents the Council's policy as much as the government before the next year. It presents all the ideas that matter how society will behave in that coming year. But with these new tactics, all the politicians have been taken out of the equation in a certain way and have hidden far more power from it than has ever been. So I'd like to ask you why. paritaprevir Proppér that an arrangement might surprise him, whether it will bring positive political results or whether this will take power from the council without giving us any additional efficiency and improved work practices. In this context, I think of another case that is quite political, i.e. Head for currency, and I refer to an excellent book by Greek economis Yanis Varoufakis, a financial minister in that country, whose name is And the Weak Suffer What's the Most? or the sick endure what they need. There it runs the damage that has been caused by depolation of currency policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u44	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. When it became clear that elections would soon be elected in the fall, many members of the council were, including, who were deeply concerned about what this would mean for a job in financial matters. Then I even studied. the methodology in Norway that has always chosen fall and budgets are more and less ready since the previous council and has been adopted politically by all classes, so it is political preparation for the budget that is then taken very quickly during the New Congress after election. Of course, we are in a new place in order to make a financial program, which is certainly the first one brought up by an advanced government, and hence may, to a large extent, a political child from an isolated government, but the discussion of financial planning is political. She's part of the entire council. Such practices should mean that the widest of all classes at the council, not the details as we are used, in which members of the Parliament have simply read down the list of possible bridge projects, such as those that have been set down in a row by votes and that humans have been choosing this bridge over others, but in the policy framework for how to be or in which areas the need is most needed to build up in bridges. So I think in some ways that such a stiffer and more stringent approach is not necessarily a sign that things are demarcated. Rather, they are just moving the way of politics to another place. Of course, let us not forget that the Ministry is the instrument of politics. [[The president calls.]] The General is the legislature, not the executive.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u45	Mr. President. I agree with the argument that the goal is not to contribute to some ballot or such thing, which is certainly one of the results of the financial debate taken down to this very small, delicate stage that has been so far. But I still feel that somehow, like these big things, these big pots, that are being treated now, they don't necessarily give us enough control over the discussion we have here. I'm asking why. Senator: Is this level good enough? I'd rather you were. A senator wants to see larger or smaller units for next year's financial work?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u46	A respectable president. Perhaps I don't want to take so much of my years to say that I'm worried about it. A senator, but I agree that we need to develop and develop these tactics. We're filming new tactics in very special circumstances. Of course, we need to develop it so that the members of Congress and then the entire body of Congress, not just a small part of a body of members, have an even greater and deeper perspective on matters. I agree completely with that. However, I think, because the senator asked in the previous answer about the Greek minister's book, which I haven't read, unfortunately, but studied only his wisdom, that the matter is not least to be clear, reserved, and extenuating frameworks on the practice rather than experimenting. I'm old enough to remember the political operating of the banking system in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it was for the good, it wasn't for the benefit, it wasn't democratic.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u47	Mr. President. In fact, each year's budget is a foundation for the discussion that will take place in society for the next year. If the budget is good, the conversation in society will be good. But we do know that good business is not always being done. A number of factors can arise that harm that work, whether political or economic. The economic elements can make the political expectations that the Kingdom will be well underreached. Although people like to be able to do better in various things, they may not always be able to do so. Likewise, bad conditions in the community that are not of economic means can make it less successful, it can be a number of situations, whether these are migrations, wars, or other forms of war. Sometimes, though, you can do well. Now there is some kind of compromise. It has been shown that some areas of government can be done well. Great success can be achieved in big and important matters, many of whom made themselves available for the Generals. Sadly, though, in some areas this budget is not sufficiently effective. There are types of cuts. Some important tasks are not extended. There is not a full force, e.g. Health, transportation, and other things. A little is done for the poor, the elderly, the people who are trying to educate themselves. In fact, the situation is at best a kickback and is likely set in reverse. [[Flmrh.... 23 billion not enough?]] So I'll take the tip of the inside. Social and housing minister, there are 23 billion clearly not enough if you can assess the status of the situation. Also, health matters are still very short. But I'll get to that later. The situation is simply so that the interiors of the land are crumbling down. This is in part because the past few years have been very limited. Although this is mainly explained by the collapse and the maintenance procedures under which they were carried out, it is also due to an increasing stream of tourists to the country that now numbers about 2 million, or 1.7 million, is closer to normal. And, of course, tourists are coming here because nature is very beautiful. It would probably be even more beautiful if our roads were not the death trap they are. Around the country, there are dozens of one - build bridges and roads that are extremely small in many areas. And it was the last night that had to call out the helicopter of the D.A. to pick up people who had been in a car accident in the country. Of course, we need what is happening in the economy because of the tourists in order to maintain the medical facilities we need and to run this country. There has also been a need. But some things are good. Similarly, there are a lot of things that are coming out in the budget, and the changes made through the releases of the financial committee have been most of the most beneficial. Then I'd like to mention an increase in tax monitoring donations of 47.5 million. K. This amount enables the head of the tax to continue increasing field surveillance with companies that may be cheating in some way. This is not really an increase in taxpayer's budget, but it is not cut down by 47.5 million from last year, to be maintained. Actually, the situation is zero. Or so I corrected myself immediately, it was 37.5 million last year. This is, therefore, an increase but hardly an increase in index. Also, it is extremely good to feel money, some 400 million. K., to promote law enforcement. When we have these disastrous roads and the increasing traffic in many parts of the country, especially in my district, but also in our other country districts, there is simply a need for increased law enforcement in order to take good care of those traveling around the country and to help them when needed. 400 million are certainly a fine increase, and another 100 million are at the National Guard. There is more that is good than 4.5 billion. In transport it is not quite good, since a transport strategy was adopted for the end of Congress at 13.2 billion dollars. It may be better if these materials are sufficient. It's slightly added to college, about 1 billion, which is extremely good. Although there is a 2.15 billion improvement in hospital care, there may be a need for further analysis on the bill, that is not all there seems to be. There's also a little more in the medical system, hopefully it'll do it to zero, but I'll get to that afterwards. So this is not to say that the bill is completely lost, Mr. President. The situation is, rather, that we do almost well enough to be at zero but not much more than that. I wonder if it's what we want to do in this community, running things so that the people of the country just drooled through their posts every once in a while. As we set out for our budget work, Pirantar put in the job to pick up and gather information from all medical institutions throughout the country, collect information from the institutions themselves, what would it take to ensure minimum services. A minimal service, not some elephant service with special congratulations, Mr. President, but only with positions and purchases of equipment and with suitable housing so that people do not just have to die or endure a severely impaired service because there is no money to do what needs to be done. I think this is the key. If we are to maintain a good society, there are some key elements we need to consider. First of all, we are going to build a community in people, not in money, as I have mentioned before in this discourse. Then comes the next question: How do we give people good lives? Are we doing this by reducing taxes? Sometimes. Raise them? Sometimes. Above all, we need to render that service or to ensure that a service is there for people to be able to survive as long as possible, to function for the time they are alive, to make sure that life - style disorders, mental health problems, or any kind of loss. That's one of the key elements, I think. Of course, we need more to make society work. We need good food, a healthy economy to care for the distribution of all our resources. Actually, the community business is bigger and more philosophical than I'm going to. But we all have the right to adequate health care, and all of us are expected to have access to it at all times. It's basic human rights. Finally, health care and the necessary price of medication should be ensured free of charge. And we in Piranha say freeness of speech, not just because we want to have some kind of free money at all, and no one has to do anything, but because the chances of people being able to do something useful in their lives increase when they don't have to sit around, they don't have to suffer the loss of human dignity and human rights simply because they can't afford to go to the hospital. In order for this to work, it is not enough to build the finest hospitals in the world. Rather, it requires proper equipment, and it requires well - educated health professionals who can work well and wisely but who are not too exhausted from work loads. It has not been recently, for it has been a huge retreat, a leak of wisdom has been called when many of the most qualified people of the country, that all others born and fled the country if at all possible. And there are, indeed, many who cannot... [[Take it up, come back home.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u48	Not two-man talking.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u49	It has been a leak of wisdom, and many have left the country. As a result, the situation may be worse than it had to be. Therefore, we would do well to look to the subsidiary of a new constitution, by permission of a president: ▪ All must be legally ensured by the right to enjoy the highest level of mental and physical health, including the highest, that can be achieved. right to a wholesome environment, fresh water, and inaccessible atmosphere. All should be legally guaranteed the right to available, appropriate and adequate health care. There I come to a mental health problem that may have been a lot of talk but has been missing a little bit of the discussion about how we keep our health care system at zero. In this respect, the health system has been severed. Mental health is one of the most urgent subjects of our time, and governments need to do much more to support the free gift of mental health. It is especially important that mental - health professionals receive appropriate and adequate assistance. That's why we've talked about how important it is for us to take psychological services into the health insurance system, but also because antipsychotics are often extremely expensive, not to mention extremely complex things, it sometimes takes many attempts to find antipsychotics suitable for people. They need to be made sure that these drugs are totally free, always free, not just paid for how much money you spent in the year. I could go on doing this for a long time, there are other things to do, dental health, and other things. But it may not be necessary to say a word of it. The most important point is that the situation in society is far better now than it was a few years ago. Many have fled the country, many have come back, some in hopes of things getting better, others for the purpose of doing things better so that others can come and live here. But these things need to be done much more. The problem with the budget bill and the changes in it are that they lack a lot of money. For the bill, $5 billion is missing. in a hospital at a local university hospital for this to be done without cutting. What was missing was a measure of the change in budgetary proposals, but these increases are not enough to reach this amount. Here comes the core point. According to the number, this is enough money, but it still lacks 2.2 billion to match. It contains 2.2 billion in a group called Hospital, exclusive. Of these, 600 million are involved. K. to proceed with a so-called DRG system to improve the effectiveness of the health system. However, in 2015 this joint, a hospital full - time hospital, was only in a swamp film, where it recorded 67 million. K. But in 2016, in this year of budget, it grew from 67 million. K. 1.2 billion. The next year, with these laws, it is assumed that these joints are increasing even further, up to 2.2 billion dollars. It may be well, except that this point is intended to strengthen the hospital business, but this money has never returned to the hospital. So it may be worth asking where the money went and where the increase is going. It seems pretty likely that this money, since they don't go to the Land Hospital, I haven't had a break over where they've gone, probably goes to, like, e.g. A private hospital that may be intended to provide simple cases and take the money but to point all the more complex matters into the Land Hospital, which already receives the budget not enough money to live up to it. The growing billions of years without anyone making a comment on this and the lack of it in the 2 billionth hospital to prevent surgery is a major concern to me. Even if this money was transferred right away, we'd have to walk it through, then the Landspians would have to walk away from it -- there's a lot of crumbling around in the audience, excuse me, I'm having trouble keeping my concentration. It is difficult for the Landspians to assume that these 2.2 billion will be disposed of in the right place, and then they will be cut off if 2.2 billion under the hospital should not be added strictly before the budget is approved. I hope the council has a chance to develop the ability to fix this problem before it comes to a real cuts at the Land Hospital. If we don't have that maturity, I don't know what we're here for.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy speech he gave here squeamishly, as expected. I'd like to ask him about the amount of agriculture involved. In the summer, feet and fats grew when a new livestock contract was approved. Not everyone liked him. Neither are those who have direct access to him, all the farmers. The type of farming they do may vary. I want to ask you why. A senator may have ideas about how he can support gardening repairs. Now it's a green pro way, in order to be said lightly. So I'd like to hear it. A senator, especially since the decision has now been made to give 100 million in a special business campaign to get an Icelandic lamb into a foreign stomach. That's why I'd love to hear a few words from what happened. A senator on his position on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question. This is very interesting. I love to think of garden farmers. I'm a special amateur of the structure of a so-called veggie that would be a kind of genius in breeding plants. But there are many things you need to do to improve gardening conditions, especially in ensuring better food markings, that origin is clear, not as vague as it is today. But also that adequate and adequate nutritional parameters and such are observed. The other thing is much more about the budget, that it can be done better. It may happen to us at the council when farm contracts are revised, to simply pay off electricity costs to farm farmers considerably more than has been done. At the same time, the country has considerably more electricity production than is really needed, at least to the extent possible. If we were to take the lead in determining that having good food is a national interest, we could gain a fine standing in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for his speech. It was especially interesting to listen to what he had to say about the health system and also to hear the positive things I have heard about the condition. For some years, a senator sees how quick he is making decades of hard work during his financial work. But what I'm interested in is getting a little better from what I heard. A senator is the way he purposes to solve problems that arise. A senator went through the talk. Many of those caring for e.g. Mental - health services are independent of functioning experts, psychologists, and psychiatrists. Counts 'em out. A senator that is the best way to solve raising funds for the land hospital? Or would it be rather necessary to place a psychological service under the payment system, so that it would be more correct for the ear - to - ear - to - read insurance so that it can be helped? And counting. Is it not true that there are independent professionals who are involved in a private business that performs that vital service? Then I stop a little bit from the focus of Land Hospital. Now's the time. A senator with a close and strong connection for the South Sea. I know that the inhabitants have been calling for extra money and improved health care in that area. There are powerful and good institutions that have been taking on ever - increasing tasks that are related to them. The number of tourists is growing, and of course they want to continue caring for their residents. I understood that even it would be designed to use the money to set our priorities around the country in different health institutions that we have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u53	Madam President. Thank you very much. Social and housing minister for extremely good questions. It may be best to think about this from the priorities, so I first take the second question, which has been placed before the surgeon. That first aims to build clinics in the country and then health care throughout the country, not only in the country, but also in the capital area, and then to take to the third place of the Hospital of the University Hospital. Of course, these things have to happen at about the same time. The Institute for Health at the Cape of Hornfjord, so you talk about the South American District, is very well fired, but unfortunately you returned 14 billion dollars. Last year's sliding. These can be done much better despite the fact that a good job is being done at the Cape. In terms of mental health care, it's a bit complicated, but I think I'd like to assume that they're going primarily into health insurance to support the psychiatrists who are now independent rather than take it all together into the public system. First and foremost, because this tradition has developed. It may be possible, in time, to build it better into the public health system, but it should be possible to do all of this temporarily by using the existing system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u54	A respectable president. I'd like to state that there are other good health institutions in the South American country than the Cape, though they are very nice there. There are health institutions in Smokeynestown, Selephoss, and Western islands that have been called for more money. But there's a reason. A senator saying, in his speech, that they should not be used to further the institutions so that they can carry out their assignments, but only to make earmarks of the extra money involved in hospital service at the Land Hospital? Because I couldn't understand why. A senator who was saying that his main view of money was to be an earmarked Land Hospital. In what sense would it solve, e.g. the advice from Mckinsey and the surgeon of the country that it is important to look to the health care unit, to look for ways to build up a nursing home, to solve the influx problem, and the efflux problems in the Land Hospital to reduce the stress of our important and major institution?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u55	Madam President. I had no intention of minimizing other health institutions in the South or other parts of the country. But what I may have come first in my speech was that 2.2 billion seemed to be missing from the Land Hospital for it to stand at zero. But it is true that there is a considerable increase in money available to health institutions and clinics in the South. Is it, therefore, a source of great joy that in the agreement made with a financial committee, it is distributed more money to an HSU, an extremely good organization and is successful in handling it? It may not be our goal to be involved in heavy earmarks, but we must always make sure that agencies receive enough money each time in order to carry out the required ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u56	A respectable president. I'm glad to see that there are many new members here, but it is true that people are quick to learn. You must be amazed at the ability of the human brain to adopt centuries - old traditions rapidly. I'd like to ask you first what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy that one thing I especially noticed in his speech. He noted that his band had called for ideas about financial needs from health institutions all over the country. Then I wondered if a senator's concern is that by focusing so much on this one group of subjects, he will answer from there that the need for money is not the same but that there are similar answers from places that are not available. Does that not make it possible for this group of paintings that many people notice and observe to receive financial contributions in line with the attention they receive, but perhaps not in accordance with the actual relative need that should be divided according to the budget? In our Norwegian system, we have a measure of authority that the Ministers have, not only executives, but initiatives when it comes to legalization, and, in the case of the initiative minister, when it comes to making budgets. There's a system in this. It's a proposal where representatives of the state's institutions give back their ideas and get back some ◯fedback, some resistance. Then the Ministry's experts should review these suggestions. The question is, Does the senator think that we would have a better financial bill in our entire life if all classes went to work for that job and then came here rather than if there was more focus on a better job within the Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u57	Madam President. Thank you. A good question for a senator. I kind of have to say no to her. I believe that this kind of work, getting information from each institution individually, is really an emergency. This relief is due to the very early development of the budget, the question, Would the funds involved be sufficient to take care of what was needed to do well? When we went out there and simply asked what, as I say, is not what we'd like to do, we'd find out that, according to our institutions, it may not have been. The best way to go is not necessarily agreed, but one of the most important policies for today's elections was to build a good health system in the country. It was already a matter of importance to us, and it was important for us to deal very well with this group, even though the situation is clearly right. A senator that there are many other groups of people who must not forget in this regard, and it is certainly not our intention to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u58	Madam President. I want to thank you for the discussion today that has been very good and important. Many speakers have come to understand that we are dealing with a complex solution, a vast solution in a large assembly case in a very unusual situation, but in itself we cannot hide ourselves under unusual circumstances that we make good and informed decisions about what we are doing and what we want to prepare. Today, we have discussed a number of important issues and transportation. Most of them are nuts. Congress has said we want more, we want to get ahead faster, and people have come up with ideas about other financing and such things. But we've come to this place in the discussion of a budget bill for the next year, which has given us a very good conclusion, I think, in this discussion. I would like to be traced only to the way we worked at it. The budget is to prepare the proposal, such as. In the field of health care, because the general health group is naturally large, extensive, and complex, it is important that we do not randomly enter it. That's why we enjoyed the Department of Legal Affairs, i.e. The Ministry of Health, worked with us on proposals to determine the situation and prepare the measures we would like to take. We also had a very good meeting with the heads of the Land Hospital. At that meeting, the Landspians presented a very valid argument for their language and concerns that we cherish, and we had to agree in many ways with the views the Landskeeper presented there, they took on, and then cooperated with the Ministry. I just want to underscore it here. We have gradually tried to make a decision. Our suggestions are varied. Our proposals are not just for the extra funds into the Land Hospital as well, because we also have a fine, good, careful analysis performed on the initiative of the previous legal committee, i.e. A McKinsey report that said, "We can't randomly deposit money into the health system. This was the background of what we did. We put it together in a proposal that is in the budget bill, in the budgets, and then in the final budgets, because we are at the turning point now to a financial committee that worked for these proposals to put the medical institutions at zero. That is our goal. Zero in the sense of being brought into the environment to face up to new economys with good, strong standing. Health institutions around the country, small and large, have been trudging many. Others have been doing very well and have taken very handsome action, as they all have. It is therefore the determination and earnest desire of the panels to not be cut off at the Land Hospital in order to bring together a basic service in the new year. We are not offering the suggestions for doing so. It is our understanding that with this subspecies and proposal, we will be at the point where we will not, unless, of course, some unexpected tragedy or unexpected events happen that will drive it out so that such a thing will occur, and then we will have to act. Whatever it will be, it's all a bit of a temporary situation in us right now. In the new year, this plan will follow very closely and oversee the plans and plans and plans, and respond to any action made by a financial committee. It'll be our part. I think that at this time, when the entire council is meeting for this proposal, it is a wonderful timeline to set that goal. A respectable president. I can only say that today's discussion, the work of the budget, has been very upbuilding and has brought us to a good place. The Congress and the people who chose this assembly, especially because of their sincere intentions to restore the health system and return to building up and moving forward, have arrived on the ledge from which we will build up. That's the main purpose of our proposal, and we're going to stand. Thank you for your time, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u59	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. The head of the budget board so it's clear, and it shows up here what we have and was making up on, that it wasn't a zero, it's definitely not cutting, and if it were possible that we were wrong from the information we have, and the land hospital would have to go to some sort of cuts, drive people, etc., a financial committee would react. We were discussing it earlier at a meeting that it was our understanding. I repeated it to the chairman in a side room with another senator, and I just wanted it to be very clear in the platform that this is what we're talking about. If the land hospital or other health care institutions need to have some cuts, drive a person, or reduce the service, a financial committee can enter and respond with the extra budget so that it does not have to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u60	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. I was describing earlier that we had done this step by step. We have seen plans that can be based on our proposal not to be cut off. In the event of surgery, a financial committee was not being told the truth. Thus, the budget is bound to fail if that situation arises. We mean exactly what we say. Our proposals finance a place we want to get to. The seminars have said: Yes, we will get to the right side of this series, it will not come to an incision. If it fails after two or four days, we must respond to it or to a new administrative factor if it does exist or whatever it will be. However, this is the sincere resolve of the council, which is common in 2017 in making proposals for budgets. For me, it wouldn't matter which part it was because we're going to be able to get there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u61	President. I come in and into a budget board and witness a very diverse group of people who start working together a bit nervous, but the intentions were very clear. It was the sincere will of the Committee, step - by - step, as it were. The head of the committee says that health institutions at least the opportunity to start with zeros and the possibility to prevent sliding. Not my service, that's what we walked out of. I'd like to reiterate that, after checking all numbers and data, it's possible. There are many things that can go wrong. It is an assignment that cannot succeed as well as we expect. We can cope. I believe the objective has been submitted. As a Parliament, we must use the laws on public finance as they have been given tremendously well in regard to the surveillance role to ensure that funds are spent as the most efficient and responsible means for the entire population. Well, that's their money. I would like to thank the Committee for the most excellent cooperation and an enormous learning process during this brief and repetitive statement. Chairman: We're getting to zero, that's the goal. There will be no cutting, and we will need to respond if this is the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u62	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. He frames it very well. We receive tools with a new law on public finance and would have had a better time today or not wasted my speaking lesson on something else, and I would also have wanted to talk about how the financier is going to reinvent his surveillance in a new year according to this new law. I think that the way we're going to be able to become a very exciting project because the law is very clear about how institutions should behave, how the Ministry should handle their affairs. The financial bill also contains a reserve of litigations, etc., so it also contains a degree of flexibility. All I can say is that I completely agree with the point of view. A senator comes along in his answer, we are expected to take advantage of the tools that the law has placed in our hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u63	President. I'd like to reiterate how you're doing. The head of the committee has spoken in his final talk has marked the work of the Committee and reflects how we worked on a very perplexing note. All of us, each class, stretched very far to make peace. I'm not gonna slow it down. It's good to reiterate how big that was, in fact,. They suggested points on the Committee that made it just fall off my face, I wouldn't have expected them from the party guy because it wasn't something you would have expected in relation to the party bitch. This was extended far by human efforts to obtain a solution of reconciliation. There was no need to resort to advice that may have been enjoyable to the person, but to the highest degree. The head of the committee I'm talking about here showed those efforts, in effect, a tone for this job.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-12.u64	A respectable president. Such comments may be out of the question. But I'll agree with it. A senator said. Each of us came from his own direction and worked in a short period of time. I'm not going to have illustrations in that regard. This is where everyone laid their hands on a plow. This is the result. I think it was, as I said in my introduction today, quite mature for the council to face an assignment not to have more activity and to face this big issue. At least nothing else has been discovered so far. But I agree with what you're saying. Senator and thank you for your cooperation.
