ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u1	By letter, dated February 24th, the president has requested this at the Commission and Observation Committee, as per Article 8 of Figure 1. 13th par. Congress, covering two reports of Kingdom Review, i.e. A report on the economic and human resources of the state and a report on mental health care for children and adolescents.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u2	There are: Foreign Minister, Department of Social Affairs, and Health Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u3	President. The battles of disabled people for human rights are long and hard, but there are also many. Happily, for a community in which people are not distinguished by motion, they have often had advocates and supporters at the General Assembly, who have brought Icelandic right above in the struggle for nondiscriminatory community, since there is no distinction between people by other obstacles to daily life. The Society endeavors to remove these obstacles so that all can enjoy themselves. During the last term, new maning laws were adopted. Ólína If I remember correctlyÞorvarðardóttir Odindindóttir was the front man of the bill, and the decision of Generalis was to reprogram the requirements for the European Commission on access matters, the demand will be made even clearer than ever before. There are now laws on housing treatment at the General Assembly. The Environmental and Resource Ministry has also presented proposals for the change in building regulations. Speakers of disabled people, whether they are the Quantum Coalition, exercise help, or others with it, are concerned that this is a step back. Now both the language of housing and the litigation of the disabled are at the top of the world's population. The minister of Harðardóttir Hardydó and therefore I ask if she doesn't feel that it's right to the government to measure and specifically explain the changes it put into order and relevant legislation, taking into account the negative impact on the bioavailability of disabled persons, and presenting herself ready to take appropriate and adequate action in the field of law and regulations to ensure that we do not take steps back to the rights of these people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u4	A respectable president. In terms of matters that are being heard under me, which are already under Generalship's treatment, it is particularly indicated in the focus of a general camp bill that it considers the financing of housing for disabled persons and mental - health professionals. I think that's exactly where I'm trying to find a way to make sure that this will be a home for those who need it. However, it shall be quite admitted here that I too have put much emphasis on looking for ways to build a good and practical home and that it is fast. We can see that an apartment investment here has been in absolute minimum since its collapse when it freezes. I don't think it was a good step to force much in general on the structure and organizational matters at the same time that it was quite frozen at the construction site. This is generally true of the building of an apartment building. I understand that the Environment and Resource Ministry had close contacts with interest groups and others with the building rules. I have no doubt that there will be reviews of the interest groups of disabled people as well as of others involved. Then, as shown in our priorities, we have considered how to secure all people a home, and this is done with reason and practicality.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u5	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. According to the minister's case, it was important that she had considered it important to change the order of action in terms of construction and planning requirements to increase the possibility of a more diverse apartment and then the expected inexpensive apartments to improve the housing market. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, and ask her to sharpen her reply, whether she thinks she is defending the change in this order and law environment to achieve the target as high as possible. A minister begins to be at the expense of disabled people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u6	A respectable president. I think that all kinds of people have a chance to live somewhere, that people have the potential to live their own lives, that they can leave their homes and have their own apartments, that people have the potential to secure homes regardless of their income. For example, it is very clear in the data provided with the home bill, which includes calculating the cost to people on disability, how we can make sure that their housing costs are no more than 201.725% of their income. I believe, however, that it is also very important that we do not create the barriers through the demands we set as government. Rather, we try to get them out of the way so that everyone has access to a home. There are a number of ways, and I'm afraid there are very many of the things that have been done regarding organizational changes, not to mention the potential of disabled people, but to a great number of barriers for people, when it comes to having access to homes, especially to less wealthy people. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u7	A respectable president. I want to talk to the highest. Health Minister on health quality deterioration in Iceland Iceland has now fallen from the EHCI list, the Euro Health Conumer Index, over Europe's health systems. In 2009 and 2012, Iceland, with the third best health system in Europe, has fallen five places during the season and has reached an eighth place last year. It is noteworthy to note that during the first few years of a crash, this panel of experts made an assessment of how European countries met European risk factors for economic crisis, i.e. increased post-operative waiting time, increased patient costs, and decrease availability of new medicinal products. And Interestingly, in the early years following the collapse, 2009 and again 2012, Iceland was able to resist these risk factors with a fine degree but now, during the current ideal period, when governments are running in favor and waste is running the state fund, the country falls from third place to the 8th, and all the risk factors that mark economic crisis have suddenly become problems in the Icelandic medical system, the waiting period, the cost of medication, and the cost of drug use. That's why I want to ask the highest. First of all, what explanation does the minister have for the situation today that I have described? Second, how's the top? Minister to act? Do you have a plan for the Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u8	A respectable president. It is well - known that the effects of a financial crisis are slow to appear. It's not just happening right now. Of course, it takes time, especially within medical standards, to identify and see changes in demographics and health. However, the economic breakdown is undeniably undeniably undeniably, followed by a major challenge to all infrastructures in Icelandic health care, that has never been hidden, and inevitably to the point of impact. A senator was a grossly illiterated man. For example, it was decided at the time that no new drug would be introduced; it was put to an end. Of course, it does occur in some way, but fortunately, we are starting new drugs to a greater extent than previously. In the same way, there is a delay in waiting for health care at a time when there is a contraction. I mention, for example, that at the national hospital, the operation in the economic crisis period, which corresponds to a total of 27 to 30 billion dollars. Of course, it comes out, so waiting for service is extended, and then we know the strikes last year. Happily, we are now starting to work down the list of waiting lists that are made up of the subject and that sees it at work and in the hospital. Within a very short time, we will present how we intend to handle the material this year according to the budget intended for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u9	A respectable president. This response has not promised a good answer, to blame the crisis in the good language on health care needs in Iceland. If it is so well - known that the Minister wishes to have the consequences of a crisis so long afterward, then there should have been no steps that would have to be done in this case in which the good news has been here in Iceland for some time. It was quite clear when the last government left power that it had reached its limit, and then it ran the way up. The only solutions to the highest. In public discussion, a minister has offered that recently there appears to be cutting and saving, on the other hand, a further privatizing of the health care unit. Today, however, contributions to health care are lower than in 2008. Of course, it's kind to look at yourself. I'm sorry that the Minister doesn't give answers, has no plan to offer the council, nothing but a private plan. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This, of course, illustrates why 82,000 people are now challenging governments to restore Icelandic health systems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u10	A respectable president. In 2008, I would like to mention an increase in contributions to health care in the capital area by 28.5%, so that the recession has already occurred before this government came into operation. It is certainly true, whether the senator likes it or not, that is the subject of resistance. That's a long way from talking about the health system, so it's going down. That's a long way from doing it. I would have believed that the extra money being made and the increased health care activities, especially in the capital area, were rough. A senator's joy is so great. A senator has the best interests of health care in Iceland. The wealth of health care is and has been for a considerable period of time one of the most urgent cases the Icelandic government should have started a long time ago and have done so happily. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u11	President. I'd like to discuss the cost of having patients in the health system in Iceland at the highest level. Secretary of health. The fact is, despite the efforts of government officials to get behind the health system and the support of government funds, some patients have to run the cost of hundreds of thousands of dollars. for medical and pharmaceutical costs. A fine example of this, much of which has been discussed recently, is that of people who are unhappy to be diagnosed with cancer. It is not easy in two terms, of course, primarily because these patients often have to deal with the challenge of coping with this destructive disease, but then cancer patients are also unfortunate to recognize with this type of disease on the land, as these patients often have to pay, as previously say, hundreds of thousands of times. From your own pocket. This knows the best. A minister, and he set up a committee, him and what. paritaprevir late Saint Pétur H. Blöndal formed a committee. In the autumn of 2013, the Committee of Peter's Committee, which had a responsibility, offered suggestions to balance the health costs for patients. There were representatives of all categories, and the results were that the representatives of all classes agreed on the issues involved. They gave the highest suggestions. Minister of March, a year ago. What's worth most for the highest. A minister and a government fund is that their proposals cost nothing. This was not a cost. It was supposed to be equal. I'd like to ask where these suggestions are. [[The president calls.]] When do we receive a bill that balances costs so that patients, especially cancer patients, don't have to pay high amounts of money?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is exactly what she mentioned here, and I set up a parapolitic committee under the leadership of the late Pétur Blöndalur, who made proposals over a year ago. Since then, there has been a project of the Department's bill, and this is a cost assessment. I assume they will be submitted this month.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u13	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that. Of course, I don't think that this bill is long since the cost of cancer sufferers has been too long, if we can say so, of course, much longer than we were prepared for this proposal a year ago, and then there are many patients, for example, who have been paid - as a single example here as a powerful, supportive cancerer's partner, who are joined by an Icelandic woman, a 38 - year - old mother of three children, an invalid who was diagnosed in July during the last year, when the proposal came up with a rare form of cancer. She's paid 250 you. K. at expense, despite the price of a microchip card. We have an example that Icelandic patients have received their treatments abroad, in Sweden, in France, and there the Icelanders have not had to pay for it; never have they had to pick up their purse. [[The president calls.]] I'm glad that this bill is about to appear, and I hope we can finish it by the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u14	A respectable president. Unfortunately, we know these stories about the payment of patients in the Icelandic medical system, which is, in fact, a very undesirable arrangement. It's an enormously complex system. The public health sector is extremely omnipotent and difficult to recognize, and as a result, as far as the department's staff and other institutions have been involved for a year, which is certainly a long time - the staff has worked, as I know, as well as rapidly as it has been able to do so. This is a very complex bill design and complex rule of action to make changes and that is to my mind the main reason that so far it has not been attacked by this system in a way that is due to the bill I intend to provide soon. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u15	Mr. President. The number of people interested in it has increased dramatically in this country, as the international community knows, is serious, and many are fleeing from an unbearable situation in their own country. Ásmundur Friðriksson, boy. paritaprevir The Independence Party, spoke of the trustees and fugitives at the General Assembly yesterday under the council. Those words have drawn quite a bit of attention. Hv. For one thing, a senator said that it was important for us to examine whether it was necessary for refugees or refugees to be returned to Cheflavík and sent back to their homes. We have a problem with a man who's got a problem. A senator is afraid of immigrants and jumps on a wagon driven by Populists in Europe and president Donald Trump, U.S.A. At the beginning of the week, a political party was formed here in a land that fosters the spirit of foreigners and as a result. A member of the Independence Party blames whether to close borders and exit Schengen. What's the bottom line? Minister for welfare, for word's sake. A member of the Independence Party? Wants the highest. Ministers also close borders and exit Schengen? [[Up front.]] The head of the General and Education Committee, what? paritaprevir Brá Consley's beloved Konráðsdóttir, has said in the media that the policy of the Independence Party is clear; it should be guided by humanitarian principles and effectiveness in these matters, and it considers that the agreed debates are going against that policy and also the policy of the government. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is the policy of the forward party as clear in these issues?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u16	A respectable president. I'm a great sponsor for the EEA Convention. I believe that Schngeren made us very good, and I don't feel that we should walk out of Schengen or consider it. I believe it is very important that we do our nation as a sovereign to help, shoulder responsibility, receive refugees in accordance with our international duties, and do it as best we can. I don't think that there's a reason why we're acting in a specific way like Sweden or Danir has, but I think that recently the countries that are members of the European Union or the EEA have come to see if it's the right thing to stop. I think it is also important that we try to make things right on the other hand, the way we receive the vagrants and the people who are given a permit here after applying for it were the trustmakers. We've been reviewing the Ministry how we can improve this by supporting the Red Cross even further, as we've been doing by doing that work, and by supporting our rural communities, which are members of the population that carry the fundamental weight of caring for these individuals as well as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. We recently took the first eaters from the beginning of the war in Syria. We need to do even better, so we went. Congress officials and more of the Parliamentary decrees made last fall, suggested that we Icelanders have received at least 500 refugees in total in 2017. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Will she work in the spirit of that synonym, also speaking of a special emphasis on the encounter of refugees from Syria and refugees from other parts of a similar position, and of the delicate groups of refugees that Iceland has received over the past few years in cooperation with the United Nations Refugee Fund? Very much. Ministers cooperate with that spirit? How is preparation now available for the acceptance of more refugees?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u18	A respectable president. From the moment I took over as a social and housing minister, I have emphasized that we should receive naval officials. We have. This was not the first group of Syrian refugees to come there. We've already suggested, me and the Minister of the Interior, please. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, to meet Syrian refugees who have health problems or disability. There were 13 individuals who came there. Then came this group now after the New Year's Eve, which is the two - year - old group from Syria. However, he is divided, so we expect the latter part of this group to arrive soon, including a small-renowned Icelander, who was the reason to cause that family to delay waiting for the birth of the baby. Then, directly following this group, we will ask for more information from the United Nations Refugee Organization for the next group. Already, we've received more hosts than was made the entire last term, I think. [[The president calls.]] I think we're going to continue to operate in the spirit of the synonym, which came from the House of Congress and the emphasis I brought into the Ministry from the beginning, that we are required to receive the vagrants. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u19	V.E.G. President. We're here to vote on this case, bill to legalize the full penalty. There are quite a number of modifications made from both major parts and smaller parts. I think it is proper to state at the beginning of the vote that there is still work at the Ministry for further changes in community service and to extend the laws of community service, as well as the General and Education Committee here for similar work to take place on the expansion of electronic surveillance regulations. It is our hope that a bill where a person can look at the light of the day in the fall so that it is important that members of the council keep this in mind in view of today's payment. I suggest that the council agree with all proposals of the greater part, and we will reenter the case between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u20	A respectable president. There are some aspects of this matter that improve, some of which are not benefits, but that make things worse, some of which need more discussion. But I would like to reiterate what has been shown that it is the wish of many members of Congress to have a full review of the case in the light of review. There will be some adjustments, and there will probably be some debates about them, but we will arrange our rules to accept some things, to be opposed, and to sit around in other ways, for example. if we think we need more discussion. I'm happy about what happened. A senator who spoke earlier that there is still a job on this case, and it is very important that it continues.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u21	A respectable president. The bill we have here, and we are going to vote for, in turn, contains some improvements in the full degree of punishment and the delicate group of subjects. However, there is a serious lack of ambitious policy and long - range vision in this category, particularly lacking emphasis on reform in the bill. We believe this is a law designed for financial systems, and that is, of course, a major fault on the bill. But here we look at some improvements, a respected president, and therefore we will in the United States pay most changes to the General and Education Committee to confess to us in the votes below with very few exceptions, because of course, the idea is that we can take steps to benefit, although this is not a bill that we would probably have agreed on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u22	Mr. President. I agree that the bill is for some good. But we need to ask ourselves, " What is the purpose of prison service? ' Is this a storage place, or do we really want to help people who need to stay there to come back into the community and become members of society? I'm afraid this bill doesn't get there, in my opinion. The changes we have to deal with in the system are far too short. As mentioned here, the bill seems more likely to take into account how moneyless the system is today. When it comes to reforming, whether it is education or anything else, the bill seems to be wrapped around that position, not concerned with the need and vision that most people do not go into prison and come as many as they need to be back to become useful members of society and shrink back into prisons. Sadly, this bill, that I know and many others, does not meet it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u23	A respectable president. In the bright future, the less part of this matter will be respected and his proposals will be changed. Like many others here have spoken, we feel that the bill is an improvement and a change in some of the parts. Yet, we say that there is not enough improvement. This is especially in the direction of correction that we want to correct this class, the ultimate punishment. However, it is reasonable to say that I feel that it is in the General and Education Committee that I would like to go with the jury in an effort to stress reform. But it is evident that these materials do not want to be rushed more quickly. We're a little impatient in the smaller parts when it comes to this. I'm glad that there is a work going on in this direction, as mentioned in a discussion within the committee, and it's presented in question. Chairman of the Committee. [[The president calls.]] At any rate, I hope that the suggestions of my share in these activities will be encouraged and added to their work if they are not approved here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u24	President. I think it's preliminary, and it's not working too well. It is, in fact, typical of the legal process involved at the council. She comes in here when she's not ready. This law is out of harmony with today, and I miss the ultimate. The Minister of the state is not in a chamber when we vote for a very large and extensive change proposal. I understand the highest. A minister would be interested in moving these laws toward reform, and I would like that when it comes to discussion between the 2nd and 3rd. will respond to the main categories of issues that have been controversial and that have not been fixed. I would like the members of the greater body to listen carefully to the explanation given to my section of the Committee for what will be further changing this preliminary bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u25	A respectable president. The work on this bill is still under way, and it goes back to the General and Education Committee. I'm happy because last night in a speech, I announced a new proposal regarding the exorbitant debt of fines and charges. Investment centres of fines and criminal costs, which are hosted by the Norwegian businessman, came to the legal committee last week and urged that this be handled by legal action in this traffic system at the time of the bill. You see, it is a bit serious that we cannot collect only 8% of the public fines in this country and 6% of the charges while we are able to collect taxes to 98%. By the end of 2015, these sources had an outstanding debt of over 8 billion. I'll look into the matter and trust that there will be no consideration of the General Committee until yesterday's program has been considered. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u26	A respectable president. According to a review given to the committee, only police are authorized to import or own the instruments mentioned in the law. So we don't think that it can stand the same law, and that's why this adjustment proposal has come, which, unfortunately, looks like a disintegration.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u27	A respectable president. In our memory, we have proposed a change of motion as we believe that security guards should not be saved with abductions on the grounds that people should be considered innocent until proven guilty. This is according to a review that came to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u28	President. We'll make a comment on the 18th floor. The bill, that the lawgiver should define open and closed prisons. This should not be handed to the Commission. Parts of policy measures need to be involved. It's very important that it's fixed. We wish for it. The General and Education Committee took a special look at this when it comes to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u29	A respectable president. One thing prisoners need to wonder about is what will happen when they move. In our memory, we feel that there is a limit to authority to transfer prisoners between prisons, since it can cause great anxiety not knowing it ahead of time and depending on which procolium it is all decided. Likewise, such transport should be primarily in accordance with the correction criteria, so we proposed this now elected adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u30	A respectable president. The less important part of this requirement is that health care professionals are obliged to inform prison authorities about conditions that could be concerned with the safety and health of others. According to a surgeon, this is against the confidentiality of health care professionals and tells them that the treatment laws are sufficient to make exceptions from that confidential rule. So the minority suggests that this law should pass away.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u31	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. A senator here spoke. It's unnecessary to have it in the law. I don't really understand why the majority of things don't take into account the surgeon's comments on this point. I suggest that this be one of the things that will be considered when we take the matter into account. There is no need to have something in the law that no need for us to have, for it must be our goal to simplify the legal environment rather than interfere with it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u32	A respectable president. Prisoners have very little performance during the loan, and they don't even have money for birthdays and Christmas presents for their children. Food security is not sufficiently secure in prisons, and this rule is therefore not good for us, who vote against this article. We propose this to be one of the overall reviews of the case in favour of a review.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u33	Mr. President. I have to agree with this. When you go to jail and talk to those who need to be in jail, it comes out repeatedly, i.e. low daily coins that have not changed for very long. This law requires payment on day-to-day damages, and here's a new proposal from your head. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, where they can go into all the payment that prisoners have at some point in order to pay what they have been sentenced to pay. It is quite clear that while they are in prison, their situation is in extreme need and that it is intended to rip money from them, and it has caused them to, that is, a fact, that they are not in need of need. It's very sad, I think we can agree on that, not even being able to buy birthdays or Christmas gifts for their children. Does anyone want to be in that position? I don't think so. It's not a law that people should say yes to.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u34	A respectable president. I would like to make a brief explanation for this law on the full out of prison. It says that a prisoner himself should pay expenses as such an institution or home collected from residents. We have reports that because of save expenses, prisoners have not been able to pursue studies, so it is important that this arrangement be revised in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u35	A respectable president. Among the factors that affect the return rate in Icelandic prisons is the safety network that will be overdue. After the end of a sentence, many inmates do not have anything to go away, even having no place to lay down their heads. In our neighboring countries, communities and free communities have worked together to form this safety network, and it is very desirable to be involved in this country to solve this problem. The majority of the Committee has suggested that the community services of the community as a legal prisoner in the home be alert to the planned end of the sentence. The smaller section agrees with this change and considers it to improve, but there is a greater need for rural activities in this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u36	A respectable president. The adjustment proposal that we now vote for will allow us to set a law on minimal equipment in our country's prisons. Just the minimum space around the prisoners, the brightness, the ventilation, and anything else that should be completely self-limiting and should be reasonable enough to be stated in the law. Therefore, I regret to see that these, of course, changes are being made that should not be a political issue. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u37	A respectable president. In a statement made by statehood, a member of the prisoner, on this change in terms of the greater part, according to the President's permission: Since there is no psychological security in the country's prisons, a prisoner's union is important. Thus, participation and visits may be important for the spiritual health of prisoners. The General Commission has also decided not to deal with prisoners in the face of violence or harassment, and this has given the commission a light in the process of doing so. It is clear that the changes made to a greater part of the General Committee are overthinking that they have not been able to work with a reformed bill in mind, and the committee has decided to ignore the reviews of most of the experts that came before the committee and that there will still be a penal bonds with no content - and unfortunately, the return rate will continue to rise. There is a solution to the problem of prisoners entering other prisoners' cells for violence, namely that prisoners can lock cells from inside so that prison guards can still open their cells instead of other prisoners. There are solutions to such problems that do not require prisoners to be simply forbidden to visit one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u38	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u39	President. I certainly hope that this adjustment proposal will not continue to occur that children under the age of 18 are placed in traditional prisons, such as Little Melt. [[Up front.]] This has been done and is a clear violation of the United Nations Children's Covenant. It seems to me that there is still a possibility of saving children under the age of 18 of Little Lague or other such prisons, and if so, I wish that the law would be changed so that no children under the age of 18 will be placed in conventional prisons for adults.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u40	A respectable president. Here's a suggestion that phone calls and letters also involve confidentiality between prisoners and elected representatives. It's a suggestion that didn't come together in the middle of a lot of people, so I'm presenting it myself and now I've explained it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u41	A respectable president. Prisoners may vote for spokesmen, but the bill speaks of them coming from line to row. The minority feels that prisoners have to be able to choose a noncombat spokesman who is not at risk and feels that they are not at risk of some form of punishment or of some kind of damage to the rights following public or unofficial communication with other non-prison parties and is involved in this motion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u42	Mr. President. I hear there's fatigue in the council, it's complicated, it's like the budget, but it's a huge bill, and it needs to be done carefully. I want to talk about this, i.e. involvement of the State of the State by who can be advocates of prisoners. In general, we do not interfere with members or those who represent a particular group, and the intention of merely selecting spokesmen from the ranks of their fellow prisoners who are in the heel of the authority because of their being incarcerated, I feel completely unacceptable. I don't understand this intervention, that the prisoners are not allowed to have a stand-by that has its place to push issues that can even. Something within the prison walls, I don't understand the intervention of simply expecting that there is only someone inside the prison who can do it. [[The president calls.]] Think about it. It's completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u43	A respectable president. This adjustment in the memory of the part is about this option, license from prison, i.e. Regular leave of day and family should be paid more, but not provided by violations and number of years in prison. In view of the memory of the part, it is best to make better use of this provision for prisoners who have shown good conduct and progress in their own lives as a result. The minority, for example, sees no reason to set aside time limits to the law on when they can first grant leaves and family leaves and therefore contributes to this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u44	A respectable president. In fact, there is a very good agreement at the council on this adjustment proposal, so there may be no need to explain it much. However, the suggestion is that a prisoner's presence during a cell search and a smaller part is very pleased with this phrase change, to speak of a prisoner's being present at a regular time, since at the original bill it is assumed that a prisoner would avoid being present looking in a cell. At least in our memory, we are concerned about the significance of this in terms of the Constitution of people's rights. So we're cool with this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u45	A respectable president. I just wanted to say the same thing, really. 5th a.m. Witchest. and express my satisfaction that the committee changed this way and made it possible for prisoners to be present at meetings in cells. It is very important, in spite of the liberty of prisoners, that they have some rights and that they can live some kind of life. They're not animals, they're people like we all know. It is, therefore, particularly enjoyable that the majority of the committee suggested this and, of course, support all of this fine proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u46	President. I agree that I'm glad that it's been changed, but it's important to keep it in place that a prisoner will be present when a cell is searched. Not usually, but inmate, a prisoner will be present. It's just in accordance with the European prison rules. This shows just how badly the bill is made when it enters the council. It was originally drawn, but it seems to have fallen out somewhere between the lajalta and the Mass. I am so glad that someone noticed that it had fallen out, and it has been fixed. That's why I'd like to make an announcement to the council and the Supreme Court. The Minister of the Interior Ministers to appoint a Parapolitic Parliamentary Committee, such as the alien law on this large, delicate, and important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u47	A respectable president. Here I think that there is part of an inhuman penalties, such as a loss of fee for jobs and isolation for up to 15 days. The minority feels that the discipline-shaped system needs to be replaced. It can hardly work well as it is. But that's why I'm in Piranha at least against this particular law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u48	President. There has been considerable debate over the matter of isolation. Isolation is likened to torture. We are members of the UN International Convention against torture. We just agreed to OPCAT. I don't think it's in harmony with that, and I strongly oppose it. I hope that the case is taken and examined closely between the 2nd and 3rd. I'm worried that it seems to be supposed to take this case through very fast. Why? These laws need to be handled very thoroughly. They're not working well enough yet. There's nothing tough, there's work to be done. It's shocking that laws are so badly developed from the council to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u49	A respectable president. Because of the testimony of Iceland's police union, I have no choice but to vote against this law. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ In view of the legal committee, the use of safety rooms and some of the equipment mentioned in 2 Peter 3: 1 is consistent with the use of safety rooms. mg., modern view of total penalties, scr. 68. g. The constitution and Article 3. European Convention of Human Rights, cr. Law No. 62/1994. It will not be seen that the use of such equipment is necessary in modern times. The legal committee also considers it necessary in this case to refer to an external party, such as a lawyer, who would be responsible for the interest of the individual prisoner. Therefore, I vote against this law, as well as others here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u50	President. I would like to call to the attention of members of Congress that there are less demands that the person be informed of the imminent imprisonment. I think it's a big break and a step back. I challenge the committee to examine the matter closely between 2 and 3 and to correct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u51	A respectable president. That's the same reason I'm opposed to this change. I don't think there is any reason to cancel the terms in the song that such a decree should be given in a real way to a man facing a prison sentence. Although it would seem innocent to talk about the change that it would be enough to publish in a way that is reserved for the release of a lawsuit by a legal hearing, I see no reason to give that discount on the basis of human rights as well as the proof of its release.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u52	A respectable president. These are two adjustments; one is that the value of work and study grows in accordance with prices, while prisoners have complained that little or nothing has changed since 2008 and while prices have gone up. The smaller portion contributes to the restoration of the project so that the approval of the price of climate change can be achieved. However, the lesser part suggests that a prisoner's advocates be excluded from rules of communication with the media, for it is vital that they communicate without interruption. This, in addition, is in line with the earlier suggestion that officials of a prisoner may be outside the prison.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u53	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a financial law, no. 161/2002 (a financial security license to limit financial damage). The objective of the bill is that the SEC has the legal authority to take special measures in certain situations or situations to limit damage or damage to financial markets. Since 2008, there has been a law that has been in harmony with it. The terms were originally given by the law of emergency, but they went on to legalize them as a preliminary law on financial affairs. The provisional arrangement has been extended four times, which failed on December 31, 2015. Rather, it is presented as a physical agreement and has been in effect in the past few years. The bill suggests that the time of the law would be on December 31, 2017. Sources on the basis of a physical harmony arrangement were last applied in March 2015 by the Commission's decision when the Western Saving Fund was combined with the Bank of America. a fusion without a degradation. According to the F.O., the decision was that damage could be limited for clients in the fund, stock owners, and taxpayers. Since the last application of the command was applied, it may still be necessary for the documents laid down in it. However, I would like to make it clear that at this point, there is no evidence that the situation of the individual financial organisations is such that the application of the law is now needed. I'd also like to use this opportunity to inform you that the bill for a new overall set of equipment, enforcing, and breaking of financial companies comes to replace the regulations of this bill. The bill is based on Directive 2014/59/ESB, which has been called the BRRD directive, in English ▪ This directive contains, among other things, similar measures for the intervention of a fallen financial company and the regulations of this bill, thus ensuring the rightness to be done by the law. Regarding the validation of the directive proposed to be legalized, this directive will be passed on by law before the duration of the law falls from the law. In this way, the aim is to provide a new overall budget for the management, access, and fragmentation of financial companies at the General Assembly of 146th legislation. If this bill is legal, the UN will still be authorized to take special measures to limit financial damage. Sources of the provision of UNEP are rich, and it should be noted that the bill is not intended to address any particular predictable problems in the Icelandic financial market, as I did earlier. There is also reason to remind that during the past few years, there has been significant changes in financial planning, which reduces the risk of financial losses. However, I believe it is important that the bill succeeds as a precautionary measure. In the same situation as when the Lands Bank took over the Vestian Islands Bank in March 2015, it is likely that special measures will be taken to limit damage to its owners and, after the occurrence of investors, will soon be taken. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u54	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend for a bill to correct the conversion of the alien law brought here by the greater part of the General and Education Committee. As everyone knows, the affairs of foreigners and alien legislation have been very discussed in Icelandic society as well as in other parts of Europe and the world in recent months. The local minister has set up a Parapolitic Committee, which has produced a comprehensive bill for new alien laws. We are now waiting for the matter to be seen and to arrive at the council. Nevertheless, in the majority of the General and Education Committee, we found it necessary to submit this little bill, which is truly very important. The primary objective of the bill is to ensure reasonable and effective management of applications for global protection. The project is made up of four factors: First, there are proposals for changing members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The committee was set up during this term period and in the majority of the General and Education Committees have observed the activities of the Committee and has considered it very important to attack the changes proposed here. Second, it is suggested that the number of members from three to seven will be increased so that the vice president of the Committee will be appointed full - time, that both president and vice president will be allowed to decide alone on certain matters and that the committee can decide for itself whether the committee should appear to the committee rather than the applicant's right if he or she wishes to do so. While the committee has done well, it is clear that the pressure on the committee is that it is important that we strengthen the legal ground for the work of the Committee so that the work becomes even more efficient. Our primary objective is that applications and their implementation take up the shortest time in the system. It's both good for those who apply and wait for the conclusion not to have to wait too long, and for us here that the system is efficient so that we can maintain it and that it is done in the most practical way. That's the main thing in the case. Third, we suggest that the right effect will not be postponed in matters where the state is considered secure from a state of origin and the circumstances of the applicant are so that the standards of 44 and 41 mg are clearly clear. 45. g. the law on foreigners'affairs is not relevant. These terms discuss the refugee concept. This is certainly a big change, but it does not involve much of the candidates and applications we receive. The change is aimed at ensuring that those persons who apply but obviously do not belong in the emergency system of the trustee system will go on other ways. The bill won by the transnational Parliamentary Parliamentary Commission and is now at the end end end of the Ministry is greatly improving the rules under which individuals can apply here on a different basis, i.e. application for housing and employment permits. Those rules have been far too rigid on us. We know that those people who should rather have a way through or at least try to go that way, and actually don't belong in this emergency system, take a considerable amount of time inside the system. This is an attempt by a larger part of the General and Education Committee to propose a suggestion to try to remove that stopper from the system. Fourth, we propose a proposal aimed at making the National Institute of Foreign Affairs available to provide information to those in need of security, such as the police at the start of the trial, but there is also the source of the National Institute of Iceland to make a decision without interviewing a trustee. It is a change that helps with the trial, and we believe it is important to take immediate consideration of the committee. We suggest that the value on this matter be established immediately. It is reported that the case received by the NTSB committees prior to the execution but has not been validated by the laws of the law, so it is quite clear. It is also a provision to ensure that the current members of the Committee of the charges are to carry out their orders. The minister of this law commands that the four more members of this law be taken in accordance with the law of 1. g., including the alternate member of the Committee. The current vice president holds his order as such until a new vice president has been appointed in accordance with Article 1. The whole thing is like I said at the beginning, the purpose of the bill is to ensure reasonable and efficient treatment. It is quite clear that in 2015 the number of applications for international protection was doubled in the country compared to the previous year. We can only see that number going up this year because of the circumstances that have developed, especially because of the language of Syria. We need to be aware that we always need to keep our eyes on the ball and pay attention and take whatever advice we can to strengthen our legislation, increase our efficiency, and try to put things into place so that things don't take too much time on the system. That's what we can agree on in a greater part of the General and Education Committee. The movers on this matter are, plus me, okay. Councilmen Róbert Marshall, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Karl Garðarsson, linein Þorvarðardóttir Þölphdorfdóttir, Haraldur Einar Einarsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur of Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u55	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir At Konráðsdóttir Kálsdótir for history with this bill to correct the change in the law of foreigners. I want to thank you too. The General and Education Committee for writing the bill and moving it to the council. As shown in the introduction, the main objective of the bill is to ensure reasonable and efficient treatment and I think that it is absolutely correct, as of course. One senator said that, due to world conditions, we can expect an increasing number of candidates applying for asylum in the coming years. I want to agree that I think it's absolutely right that we need to strengthen and speed up the situation. But I'd like to ask why. A member of the committee may not have been increasing to ensure that the treatment will be good and, of course, faster than now, but that this is not the point of shoveling people out of the country faster than it is now, i.e. that growth will only result in faster application of trust, whether or not there is a need for emphasis on fair treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u56	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, which is very important. It is important that we be made clear here, that we keep things in place so that the trial is reasonable. When we set up the DA's committee - we ran it through a full-scale board and we considered it best at the time to set up a case about the DA's committee, we had a point of view at the top of the list and we're still. But it's always that way, when you're creating a new system like this New Committee, that you have to be free to say, "Hey, you did good for us, but other things didn't work well enough. We need to expand our legislation even more on experience, as well as on the fact that much more pressures are being put on the committee than we anticipated a few months ago when we were legally establishing these regulations and that committee began working. It is important that we realize that the nations we prefer to compare with and view are changing their foreigners a few times a year. That's how we have to look at things, when we're in a situation like this, which is, in fact, an unprecedented rapid trend in the seminary, that we have our eyes open and always ready to take action and look at the laws when appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u57	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like to come up here in this second answer just to stress that I think the increase in the committee will never be that it can be done faster to run things through, to maintain a point of view and to tell it from this platform that I believe it will be absolutely fundamental that it will be to strengthen the treatment and that it will be reasonable even if the system at home becomes more stressful.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u58	V.E.G. President. Iceland is a state of justice, and we want to take into account the rules and views in the state of justice. We respect people's human rights, no matter where they come from, and of course we need to be careful about these and other matters as well as that of guidelines. That's certainly what we're going to do, and there's nothing else that will be up for a global and educational committee than to strengthen the legislation and try to put things into place so that the project will be efficient as well as fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u59	President. I want to thank you for this case, which I think is very important in many ways. There is a need to promote the activities of the NGOs where the treatment rate has not been adequate. In addition, the aims of them are worthy to support careful court treatment and to increase the speech rate at the first administrative level. An adjustment in the way countries are classified as secure nationalities is also part of what is being discussed here. The one quoted here had doubts that such a list is usually right, but the changes proposed to the existing arrangement are for good. In that respect, I believe the bill is a improvement. However, I would like to give my brief talk to encourage the bill to give the highest part. Minister of the Interior Minister now in the fall, we will begin to see the light of the day. I think this must be considered unacceptable at the time of March and it is a matter of Congress that is presented in such an unusual way, i.e. This is a procedure to create a bill that, unfortunately, we haven't done enough at the council. In view of the sensitivity, wide, and important nature of this class, it was decided to initiate a transnational Senate commission to make a new bill for foreigners. Me and what. paritaprevir Brá's beloved Konráðsdóttir, who is chairman of the General and Education Committee, sits on the Council Committee, which has been completed, along with other members of the council from all classes of the General Assembly. The work has actually been incredibly interconnected and cohesive. But there is no pleasure that the committee will be returned to the minister in November and now it is March, and we still do not see the case at the council. I believe we must call for a minister to bring the case to the council, as expected. Otherwise, I believe, if there are any obstacles to the government or board, that the Council of Congress itself makes the matter known. This case was prepared for us. It was done in a vast and extensive consultation with a large number of people, with the Ministry involved, in the university environment, in stakeholders, in subversive movements, and in human rights organization that are concerned with this important issue party. It would be a real honor to the council if we were to finish this matter. It is March, as the people know, and the natural process is soon to blow. We are talking about a matter that is both important and important to human rights and therefore needs to be treated at the Council and with plenty of time. I think that we, who have been at the Council for more than one terms, know that all cases of this magnitude and weight category, if I may say so, have better ways for any council than any election's. I think, in that light, it is very important for us to bring the matter up to the council, as well as to the minister of the jury and the government, but most of all, in order to make this delicate sect more decently than we have ever done so far. We will be aware of the news almost every day, both reports of what the international community has to deal with, what Europe has to do with, as Iceland deals with political discussions, both the international and the world debates at home, that it is important to control this fair and reasonable category, in which we will be able to bring together the bonds of humanity, the personality and the respect for the diversity of the people of the earth and the understanding that we are here on this land, as in other civilized states, to cope with the activities that will likely be larger in the years of life during the challenges of this century. My main contribution to the discussion was to encourage the subject to be discussed. I've had a word with the highest possible. A minister in the General Assembly's symposium and encouraged it and becomes aware that this is both the will and the understanding that it is. Minister to bring the matter to the council. I haven't heard anyone argue with their plans. I have not heard anyone doubt that it is both right and the time for the matter to be treated by Congress. In view of the lack of acceptable work there, I saw the drive to mention the state of the matter. I hope that we will be able to complete the big issue at this council because the jury really needs it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u60	A respectable president. Here we discuss a delicate matter. As some have observed, I'm the only member of the committee who has ever known. A top-of-the-art educational committee that's out of the question. There's a reason. She's because I'm worried it's not the right way. First, I'd like to say that today there is a crisis in the affairs of inmates and refugees, especially in Europe. It is not only a question of whether to take the steps to consider the rights of inmates and refugees but also a question of how to do so. I think this case is an example of it. I firmly believe that everyone who puts the bill on the bill will do good one thing, that these fine whales. Councilmen are trying to get the best of the rights and interests of refugees and refugees. However, I am concerned about the influence of the bill, and I would like to list it because the reality on the floor, as you say, is often very different from what we see here at the high Council and in the administration, such as the State Department of State or Foreign Affairs. There is an underlying fear in this series of languages. It is the fear of the Flood, the Flood of people who are going to run into millions and die of some dead thing here in Iceland, if not the economy, the culture, or the tongue, or anything. I would like to point out that there are 500 million people in the European Union and we are in the EEA. These 500 million people can come here and live here if they want. They have to register, but they don't really need a special license. All they have to do is let them know they're here and go through some paperwork, but they can stay here. All the Greeks, all who have Greek citizenship, may move here if they wish, if that happens, they may. 500 million people. Over 7% of mankind, more than 7% of the animal species we belong to are allowed to move to Iceland today. Where is the Flood? It's not here. This is because these fine people, these 500 million, can move to other countries of this 500 million people of the European Union. By the time EES was approved, you're supposed to come in here with millions of Italians. Where are all the Italians? They're not here. Yeah, they can move here if they want, but they haven't chosen to come here. Of course, there are different reasons why people want to live where they live or move where they want to go. Today, Europe faces a very serious problem with the masses of refugees and refugees. But the main reason for the problem is that only some countries have welcomed these people. That means all the pressure goes there. The people go to Germany and Sweden. Germany has some 80 million people. Sweden has about 9 million people. If all these people could freely travel about 500 million people in the market, I believe that this rice would be solved in a few years. Of course, some social change would be, of course, some cultural change. Well, I guess it's normal and thank you very much. They are positive for a long time, as the history of population is most evident in my opinion, such as the United States and Canada and other countries. When it comes to this case here, we're always worried about this flood of people who will come here. Of course, this can happen if we make wrong decisions. I mean, wrong decisions are building more walls and more barriers in this suit. On the contrary, if we have any of these - to cut down fences and obstacles - we should encourage our fellow workers countries and friends nations of our own, if any, enemy nations. That's my point. Of course, the right thing must be done; it is of utmost importance. As I've mentioned earlier, I firmly believe that all people who put the bill forward are doing good, but I'd like to take a tenth of the concerns I have in mind about it. One is that I'm really worried about an ancient man. The Commission has the authority to decide matters on its own, let alone that a vice president is permitted, under certain grounds given by the bill, such as that the state is on a safe list, a matter is clearly unfounded or anything. I don't believe that these tools we have, i.e. The term "probably unfounded application" and the list of secure states (s) to be good enough. I don't think they're working right now, and that's why I don't feel like giving this great power to so few people. Rather, I would like to do more to enable the Board of Overseers to work on all matters quickly and surely with simply more people and more time. Of course, it means more capital. I don't think there's anything you can do to make a sense of this class without extra money. So I'm really worried about that. I also feel that taking away the right candidates to attend a meeting of the Committee is a huge setback. I realize that it takes time, but I believe it has the more important rights of these candidates to go and meet these people and talk to them and describe their situation and circumstances directly. I regret that this right is to be taken away, although I understand that, of course, people are doing well and suggest it. I am basically against a list of secure states. I believe that he is merely a servant of the task of not taking matters for enough coverage. I think one of the consequences of this list of secure countries is that the people who make these decisions are less likely to take a step. I don't see what this list is supposed to do, and that's why I'm basically against him. I don't think the change suggested in the bill is an improvement. I think it's going to stick to the idea. It's contrary to the course I want to follow. Then I am further deeply concerned that justice will not be suspended. I have reason to believe that it should always be possible to postpone a court order. Again: I get the support, and I respect the goal people are trying to reach, i.e. to improve the rights and interests of these candidates. I just don't think this is the way. I believe it should always be possible to postpone the right effect. In other words, I simply don't agree with what is stated at the outset, that the bill is a more reasonable and more efficient treatment, although I understand that this is the purpose and respect the purpose of it. I have the greatest respect for it. Of course, people are doing well, but I just don't agree with them that it's the right way. Now the bill's going to get a little coverage on what? The General and Education Committee where we can take this discussion with the outside bodies and I look forward to doing it. But not, for I suppose that discussion will be very difficult. The language group is very heavy, and it is an overwhelmingly important subject and rights of a wide variety of people. At this point, I'm not going to extend my case on this bill, but I just want to reiterate that I have a lot of respect for people who want to do well. But it is not enough to want well. We also need to know exactly what we are doing. I don't think it's the case when it comes to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u61	Madam President. It's a delicate matter. I think we can all agree on that. It's not our wish to speak for most members of the Committee of Generals and Education to present this case, so I can speak for myself, and I think that I can speak for most members of the committee, because of course, we had hoped in the past that the large bill from the transnational council would be brought to the council. Everyone was expecting that at least we would be inside, and we wouldn't have to take these factors out of it, because they are part of the big, important work being done on it. And when the case is so far, as in that case, almost ready in November, you would think it would be simple for a minister to finish it in a relatively short time. I think it's perfectly clear that if the Minister doesn't bring the bill in here very soon, I'll support the idea that the Council of Congress is taking the case. As we have seen, the discussion was enormously extensive and broad. It's a sensitive, cuddly group of subjects. We need to take time to discuss him in the Senate Hall, and this is not good at all in view of the situation I feel is forming in the community. I'm sorry, but I feel a little more racist, and I don't think the next election should be done that way. We need to settle the matter at this council and get our hands on this party. It can never be made that much like, as they say sometimes, because there's a lot of opinion in this, of course. A senator before me talked about. I can agree with that, for example. with the list of secure states. I strongly object to that thought. We made some progress because it was supposed to be in the law, he was supposed to be in the Ministry, a formal list. It won't be, and it's that way, but I agree with the principle that such a list shouldn't exist. Of course, we are dealing with people, inmates, or refugees, who even live with social isolation and are under great emotional stress, and in view of their pressures, I feel that I have had to share in taking the steps outlined here. The bill isn't as if I had written it, it's not as if I'd wanted it altogether, but it's acceptable. There has to be an increase in the number of members of the board, unfortunately, that job started too slowly, it doesn't have to be drawn over, that was the case, that was a problem at the beginning of the Committee. This may be part of the explanation, but it does not change the tremendous increase in the number of cases. The number of them is multiplied over the course of years. Of course, it is just part of the world scene that we are facing. That's why I think it's like trying to speed up a trial and give more authority to president and vice president and hire them both in full - time employment, one already is. One of the important things is that people can distribute their responsibilities and their jobs, and one of them always has to be included in the group that handles matters individually. I think that once we get seven parties, it's gotta be odd, then this should be on its way. That's why we need to make the matter go through fairly fast. That does not change, however, that it would be good to see a country on the big issue and that a minister would give answers to someone other than just coming in the next few days. That's what we've heard, I think, almost from New Year's, so it's kind of stopped working. The bill is six articles, followed by temporary regulations. First, the increase in the committee is discussed. The change in visas is discussed on the basis of a humanitarian view of health issues. I suppose we are freshly reminded of things that had to be done for Christmas and the council did things, including... Because a new bill has not seen the light of the day, and the setting is not all right. It is then suggested that justice will not be postponed in cases where the state is considered to be a secure state of origin and circumstances so that the measures of 44th will be clearly apparent. and 1st. 45. g. Not relevant to a foreigner. This may be what many of us do. I agree with the senator earlier that it was difficult to see that a foreign agency could handle matters without talking to people. But the source of the Foreign Institute for making a decision without taking interviews with a trustee is taken away, just to be told, because I felt I could hear a case straight away. A senator earlier thought that he could handle matters without interviewing. That's not possible. I think it's extremely important, that's everyone's and everyone's having an interview. That's why no one can be pushed out of the Sanhedrin. However, this is likely to result in people being classed according to the ideologies of a secure and not a secure state. Then, the trial treatment should be given for a maximum of 90 days. Of course, it's something we haven't seen in the past few years, and we've heard of things in the system that are totally unacceptable. I think that alone is very important. It is also important to note that although a party is expelled from the country, since it is not thought to meet the criteria of international protection, he can dismiss his case abroad and he has a spokesman in Iceland. That's all that matters to me too. In the 3rd. it is suggested that if the application for asylum is denied at the first administrative level when the applicant comes from this blessed list and the application has been reputed unfounded, the applicant is asked to leave the country after the result is reached at the first administrative level. However, this does not change the fact that there are no demands on the treatment and that the deadline is 15 days. In the 5th. it is said that the Commission has the same authority as the Foreign Institute for quick treatment and priorities. Code two. suggests that this has not been carried out and that decisions at the first administrative level will not be made without the application of the candidate and the execution of a researchal government. I think we've been trying to get as close as we could, considering the circumstances and the basic thoughts of all of us who have had to deal with these issues is humanity. It is also important for us in our speech to distinguish, I think it is fairly obvious that people confuse them, when applied for international protection, what it is to be a fugitive or a fugitive. I don't think it's clear to everyone. I like it when I have a conversation with people that they put all this under one hat. I don't know exactly how to inform people that there's a difference. Madam President. I'm not gonna have this any further. As I'm saying, it's a little bit of a emergency bread to have to put this bill on the side of the committee. I encourage ministers and, in effect, ask that they show on the big cards and don't let the council and those in the system and of course those who need to contact the system and get its services, wait a while, but give us the impression that it's bringing the bill into the council, I would most likely like it to be only in the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u62	A respectable president. I come up here primarily with the members of Congress who have advertised for the big foreign - language bill. It has been accomplished in a remarkable way that is exemplary, in a parapolitic stand. The bill is in the Ministry, and the extent of the issue has become a bit strange, and the solidarity that the bill has not arrived at the council. So I would like to stress that the bill is coming here as soon as possible. It was important to submit this bill covering changes in alien law because of certain situations that have been given the application procedure for international protection in this country. It was shocking when this bill was discussed in the General and Education Committee not to have the overall picture in front of them. That picture, of course, is in the bill series. One often had to remind himself that in this bill, we are only talking about the specific aspect of the matter and putting into practice some adjustments in a process that is part of the big matter, which is the way we are going to do well in welcoming people who want to live here. In this vital work, it is simply a matter of establishing the nation, this closed nation, shutting society down until now, some wise and ambitious course for immigrants. So I'll make it perfectly clear, we're supposed to open the land a great deal. I think that's what needs to be done in the 21st century for our own good and so that we will be in the community of the nations. What are they doing in this bill? I don't have much trouble with the bill, especially after certain articles were cut off and referred to the big treatment. The first sentence of the report says that the primary objective of the bill is to ensure reasonable and effective treatment for application procedures for international protection. That's all they're doing on the bill. I think it's good to have applications for international protection as the best and most efficient and the most humane and the most beneficial. There are some things in the bill that will improve this subject, such as simply increasing the number of the NTSB on the decision issue. I think that if these applications are handled as most efficient and that it is also a great improvement not to make a decision in these matters without interviewing the trustee, for example. Clearly, you have warned about a list of secure kingdoms. I asked the guests who were before. The General and Education Committee, the value of this list. I agree that he should not be tied up in a court of law. Of course, such a list should not be sufficient to deny a person of international protection in this country because it comes from a country that is considered safe in some sense. There must only be one person who's been taken care of. I think it's in the bill that it's like this. The application for international protection must be unfounded otherwise, or it will show that it is unfounded in other respects. I can't imagine us taking applications for international protection for granted and that the person applying for international protection will simply get it. We must stand by offering help to people who are applying for international protection, asylum, the help we would like to provide. People often come from disasters from war - torn areas. As a community, we want to be able to welcome people and bring them back after a disaster. In some sense, there are limited benefits we can offer in this regard. I am simply the motivationist for us to step in and try to put as much money as possible in it and try to do what we can. We have a long way of meeting with other countries that are doing well in that regard. We're here to receive people who need this help and who need to get their feet in a new and safer community. But when we say that some people are rejected because an application for protection is unfounded, because for some reason there is evidence that the person has not been afflicted in any way that he needs community assistance, it is important to me that this person is pointing to other ways to become an active member of society. That's exactly what they need for the other bill. That bill is making it all more open, that I understand, and much more efficient, that people can come here and get a living permit and work permit, which is now a very complex thing, and puts people under uncomfortable limits. I know for certain that on the bill that's coming to the council and coming in which these routes are first being made much more open. I see this work very well together, if we have a careful and effective case treatment when someone's applying for asylum here and international protection and the rest of the ways, they're also opening up and going straight to the Yankees if they don't meet the international protection criteria. I told you earlier that in this bill, there is no telling how many trustees are to receive or how open the land is to be in that area. There is only a fair and just case. I'm on it. But when it comes to the question of what to do, I believe that we should give a lot of attention and try to do this. We're supposed to aim for other Norwegian countries when it comes to this. But I think we have to face it, Icelanders, this community, that we have been very closed. It's been a very difficult move to Iceland. This has changed since we became participants in the European Economic Area. There are, however, national barriers to all voices opening the country better. It was recently established by political groups that have the goal of trying to prevent further opening up the land. The opinion that we are to dismiss people has been heard in the Assembly Hall. It's nothing that's heard for the first time here and now. In many ways, this attitude has marked the foreigners'policy for decades. Only recently do we see changes in that subject. I think it's an assignment to convince the people to open up the country, which I still feel is a cheerfully lonely place in a Senate hall, more difficult than people realize. I think that's why it's important to have the big alien bill in here as soon as possible, in good time for the next election, settle it before elections and have this conversation in here and with the nation. And then I think Iceland has to make a move for import policy, as many societies do. What do we think makes sense that many people live here? I think we're looking at a time that's different from the one who ruled in the 20th century. I think that in the 21st century, there will be a lot more migration and a much greater demand that people be able to live where they choose to live. We need to find ways to make good of it, to make good use of it, to benefit the Icelanders, and to make progress. I don't see anything in this bill that keeps us from taking positive steps in that whole business.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u63	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee (EC) that changes the bill to the legislation on Iceland's Penitentiary on the treatment of stability initiatives. You can find the attention of more parts and the change in shape. 909, but in short, I will explain the issues and the work of the committee. The committee received four reviews on the subject, and the committee was contacted by a representative of the Bank of Iceland, State Reservation, U.S. Marshal's Office and the Ministry of Economics and Economics. The lead-in bill will be that of law No. 59/2015, about financial companies, which paid for the emergency contracts of fallen financial companies, were made changes in temporary regulations III of Iceland's Secret Bank that made it possible for the bank to receive valuables on behalf of government funds, while a minister would be permitted to hide special members who worked on the bank's commission to care for valuables. During the fall months, the work of the Ministry and the Council Bank revealed that the laws about living, reporting and the duties of the specialized bodies that would care for the management of valuables had to be explained more fully. The bill suggests the adjustment of temporary regulations III in the UN Bank Act to explain this point. The bill suggests that the legislature body should include a business to care for the management board, full and selling valuables that flow to the state fund because of the stability of the pair of fallen financial companies and are not in the form of cash. However, the Subcommittee's review of the bill shows that the Navy bank does not seek the project, saying in the review, with permission of the president: ▪ It was far from obvious that the bank set up a partnership to manage property that it did not belong to. It was noted that there are other ways of creating an arm length from the State of the Member States... Another quote later in the review of the Pentateuch: It is considered... that [the bank] sets up a union and appoints a government that has the primary objective of converting possessions that are not his and not responsible. In the management of the Economic and Business Committee, and in collaboration with the Economic and Economic Organizations, more part of the Economic and Business Committee contributes to the change, rather than to the UN base and operate a company to manage valuable funds, the head of finance will be allowed to establish a society and put it under the same authority. In this way the Minister's responsibility will be clearer to the overall construction of the project, both for the possession of the union and for the administration of an order. Having the management board in a special company gives you a suitable arm length from the state, and instead of allowing the Ministry to make a contract with the Society that reflects the importance of the State Fund as the owner of the valuables. There is a general government policy on partnerships and partnerships. If any of the organisation does happen, the management policy on how it operates and how it works. In addition, it is expected that State Review will supervise the implementation of the Convention with the Society and State Review has its own authority to view the Society under the regulations of the Agency. A critical point was made to the committee that a minister is permitted to recommend the destruction of the government and personnel in the agreement with the Society and to contribute a greater proportion to the loss of that authority. It was also found to be critical of the subject of the bill that administrative law was not valid for society's decisions. The majority suggest that this wording falls to the end of the private rights, however, the majority of the part of its perpetuation is considered to be to be the basis for the Community's activities, as appropriate, and is recommended in relevant laws and regulations, e.g. in terms of proper management requirements. Can be referred to II. a section of the administrative structure. It is suggested that the government's banking agencies take over the government's holdings to Iceland Bank, which is suggested in the bill that the Bank Management Board take over the financial property of the state. The Ministry has informed about this about the fact that property amongst assets is indirect stocks in financial companies, which are part of property in holding institutions and financial assets, which are essentially extraction sources. In some cases it is a written stock that is easy to sell in an open and transparent way in a stock market. These assets are naturally associated with other reputable assets and with the standard processing and sale of the company. In the meantime, there are some problems with the fact that such assets are transferred to the Bank Office, for the law of the institution is not suitable for taking over the State of holding societies that have an indirect share in financial institutions. Law No. Furthermore, 155/2012, the sale of the financial property of the state, is not to be found in the bank office or in the Ministers to sell other financial assets, which are listed separately. Clearly, significant costs can fall before selling possessions, e.g. for advice on food, advertisements, legal services, and so on. In view of the great needs to be worked out, it is suggested that the company be set up at a substantial rate of 150 million. In order to cover expenses. With the wearout of the company, its property returns to the state fund. It is proper to insist that no possessions of this stability flow into the organization. They're all at the government account the whole time. It's just this company that's taking care of the property. Not directly in the bill whether the management board will count three or five members, but more part of the Economic and Business Committee suggests that if there are a three - man government, then at least two members of the union will be in control so that decisions can always be made by a full - time government if, for example, cases of incapitation or other causes. In conclusion, the existing agreement has been put in line with this view in that it is compared to two defenders and that one of them consists of all the meetings of the government. The bill says that the Society's work focuses on transparency, objectivity, equality, and practicality. The importance of these views remains to be fundamental, as these are the same views as found in the 45th chapter. a new official financial law on the general administration of the state of property. The majority stress that a minister of the agreement with the Society's managers and staff always have a good and professional practice in this respect of all their jobs in which these are official property. In view of the greater part, it is important that the whole process of selling and handling of property is clear and clear and that the individual decisions are always available. Only through this will the process be used in line with the bill text. The majority of the figures are that if two ways of managing property are available, the preferred route should be chosen. Equality will be achieved by the fact that all meeting objective conditions have access to individual assets and that the necessary information about the trade process is available for all potential clients. In terms of objectiveness, the committee feels that there is a great need to make sure that there are proper requirements for meeting those who discuss individual issues. Also important is the whole process of the enterprise, e.g. prices or assessments of suitable candidates, based on objective criteria. It says that using practical wisdom, we are looking for the highest price or market price for property. In handling the case before the committee, it was stated that this is the same criteria as found in Article 3. track No. 155/2012, the sales agents of the state's financial capital. It has also been shown that evaluating what constitutes the highest price is always in relation to standard prices. The objective, of course, is always to maximise the value of the stocks, but it should also be endeavored to adjust the cost of business and sale of the property. The same principle applies according to personnel law, i.e. that the executives, managers, employees, and anyone doing work on the company's behalf are to be discreet about the details they are informed of in their activities and be secret shall follow the law or nature of the matter. It is suggested that committees of the Council will be provided with information on progress in the processing of property and suggest changes that a minister should make a financial and business committee and the WHO budget of quarterly informing on the progress of property waste on the basis of the estimates and other information provided by the organisation. Finally, according to the bill, the company will break up once it has finished its work. It is possible to wonder when this requirement, complete work, is met. It was noted to the Committee that the clients could obtain 64 billion assets and that 80% of the assets would be completed within 18 months. The secretary will probably decide when the Society will have completed the task. This is likely to happen when no remaining property is of that nature or value no longer sufficient to justify the continuation of the union's activities. The minister would likely present plans for the separation of the society to the two panels who receive a quarterly report on the extraction of property. A respectable president. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be accepted along with the change shown on panels. 909. Under the heading of February 29, 2016Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman and executive, Brubbur Níelsson, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Linika Sævarsdóttir Savarsdóttir, Sigmi Á. Andersen, Willmur Bjarnason, Willum Þórsson, and Steinunn Árnadóttir, daughter of Aarna, in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u64	Madam President. I'd like to explain why. paritaprevir When Árnadóttir's daughter Þóra signed this opinion in favor of the case, she did so. On the other hand, I have been on the committee for a discussion of the matter, and I would like to account only for the warnings against our position. Like what? Senators remember that I was very critical of the bill as it looked when it entered the Senate before Christmas and was particularly critical of the arrangement of setting up a special society within the World Bank, which was vaguely responsible. It's not a bank administration, it's the Board of Banks or the Warrants' Council. Secretary of finance. I felt that this would create a very different responsibility for the activities of a society that had very much possessions. This is a provision of property around 64 billion as we near it, so that important assets are being taken up. I'd like to say that I thought a financial and business committee was taking a good time to review the situation and review the subject of the bill that came in here. Asked questions, would it not be reasonable to treat these possessions simply as normal government property when sold? On the other hand, there is a grammatical evidence that, of course, this is not for traditional government property. Rather, it is a matter of property that has come into the hands of the State because of stability agreements, but is the nature of a matter that is not owned by the State of normal times. It is not unusual to consider whether it is normal for special rules to apply to such possessions. This, of course, involves good procedures and guidelines. The committee considered reports on such sales. As noted, this is not entirely the same principles as selling traditional Kingdom interests. However, it was quite clear in my opinion that the responsible system was very vague in the bill presented here and I believe that there is a better way to do this with a special society of the highest degree. The minister of finance is then responsible for the government set up there and is responsible for political matters, even if it does not come to each individual act. On the other hand, I want them to be on notice in this matter, which makes me doubt. I fully agree with the stated views displayed in the bill and in the Committee's list of members of the Committee, that we should make sure that equality and transparency are being guarded, that we have gone as a transparent route. As I said before, there is a grammatical argument to shift this process into a private property environment, but in the light of the nature of the possessions, I fear it will still be a war against the stated targets of the bill on transparency and equality. There are very different practices between public property and property commonly found in the property rights environment. As I say, I believe this is a much better way, i.e. To establish a special union as a minister of command, he does not have access to individual decisions, but is responsible for forming the Society and appointing the administration. I began to criticize, and I still agree, that the II Parliament's arrival is a very demeaning event in the bill. At that time, it was assumed that the provision of valuables would be in line with economic and financial stability targets and that the budget should account for the planned management and provision of the valuables. The Minister should agree with the Council on the evaluation of this impact on economic and financial stability and introduce the case to the Economic and Business Committee at the preparation level of the budget bill. However, during the adjustment of the majority of the Committee, significant changes have been made. It suggests that the World Economic and Business Committee and the General Funds shall be provided quarterly with an explanation for the development of possessions on the basis of the estimates and other information provided by the organisation. This is a significant change that I agree with too. Another factor that was a great deal discussed in the activities of the Committee was that of the original bill on a particular crime problem, that a minister was permitted to give governments a special damage to the government and personnel of their activities in the contract. This is not part of the conversion proposal for the majority of the Committee. I agree, too, with a fine discussion on the committee, I think that would be the right conclusion. On the one hand, my concern is about what I mentioned earlier about the stated targets of transparency and equality and then whether the exclusive environment really war against them. If this route is gone, I think the doubt will remain. However, I worry that when we put together such a union that makes a considerable amount of property, there is a considerable danger that the motivation to complete the project, although it is said that it should occur as soon as possible, is not sufficient at the end of the day. It is assumed that the highest. Ministers have some deadlines to negotiate with the company. I formally request that the case be taken back into place. The Economic and Business Committee between the 2nd and 3rd. I don't think that there's a complete possibility that there's a set of deadlines on the job. True, we have an example of the continuation of the period of activity of such associates, but this calls for the highest level of activity. To extend your hours, a minister needs to consult the Generals and may even increase his motivation. There are some who say that this will even cause the incentive to sell property too low to become too poor. But I don't think so, because this is a very clear statement that it should be based not only on transparency, equality and objectivity, as mentioned earlier, but also on practicality and defined as the highest price or market price for property. That declared goal is clear. However, I do not consider it a crime to try to shorten the Society's hours in view of the fact that we have many examples of a wide variety of societies living much longer than is expected. The most intimate example is the credit committees that many thought would not be as long as they have proved, so we have many examples that allow us to live longer than is thought to be indicated at the outset. I think that in part of the Committee's Committee section, the discussion is under way, but I think that while we in the left movement feel that the matter has undergone great and positive changes in the activities of the Committee, we have yet to warn about the situation, including the project. and especially for the reasons I've been tracking here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for a good speech and advance explanation. Of course, the committee will take the matter back to themselves and discuss whether the company can be set up for some kind of final period. The bill says that when the company has completed its work, which is truly vague, it will be in my memory as to what it means to be finished. There's an enormous amount of interest there if the property collection that the Society needs is up to 60,470 billion. 1% of that number is 600 million, and if your company succeeds in raising the property sales by 1%, that's a lot of money for the state. Whether it works one year longer or less, I feel that there's some additional thing I think it might not be very important. The big thing is that it will be well done, and no one will rush it. Has a what? A senator does not worry that this could cause any hurry that could damage the interests of the State? Is it not better to say that it is over when it is over? Something may come up. These are called financial resources, a fiscal device, which may need to be collected right after the end of the period. I ask: " How low does the figure of property have to be? ' A senator thinks it's time for the company to finish the job? What, then, would happen to the remaining possessions?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u66	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. In a new model, it's said: The money should be removed after it has finished. Likely, this means that the sale of these assets has been arranged. The reason why I'm worried about this is because I think that if we appreciate it, let's say, let's just think aloud in the public chair, that we'll ever put this partner, 2018 just into the blue, set that we're happy after having received quarters reports, which are very improved, as I said, about the progress of the union, should be slow for the minister of finance at this time to seek the approval of the council to continue this group for a certain period of time. Of course, we do not want to do that as a matter of course. A senator mentioned, and, as a legitimate indication and comment, that property is being subversive, is very clear as to what is meant by practicality in the objective of the bill, i.e. that property be sold at the best price. If the decision to extend the work period of the company rests entirely with the Commission, I also believe the pressure to end the work is smaller, i.e. if you don't have to go through the Council. I wondered if this will help to improve the council's situation to monitor the company. That's the thought, but I'd like this to be discussed a little bit more on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u67	A respectable president. I'm not going to be long on this matter. For one thing, I support it, and I think it is wise to call a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. for further discussion of previously attributed causes. From the moment I first saw it and after we started discussing it on the committee, the bill becomes increasingly strange to me. I felt that I could sense it from many other members, if not all, that there was a general feeling in them that there was a lot of things--what should be said--disturbed or rash in the bill as it looked. It was strange, for example, that in the original bill it was assumed that the cow's penitentiary should be used in the holding society. It was strange to have the Council Bank's representative come to a meeting and realize that the bank certainly did not want to do that. Of course, it was correctly explained that the property was not the management of the Federal Bank but the State's property. I find this to be the most intimate explanation because during the last assembly, when the laws on stability were set up, the assets were expected to enter the Secret Bank and were passed at that time. It is only natural, then, that humans thought that without much thought, they thought it would be wise to form a society and put it in value. However, they needed to criticize the Commission, the Ministry, and the Federal Bank as a team to find out that this was not wise, of course. They are government property, so it is much better for a wise chain of responsibilities and decisions and for all that society is then under the Ministry of finance. I am very happy that the committee came to the conclusion in cooperation with the Ministry that it would be much wiser to have it there. While the hanging bank has its own estate, with possessions that ran to him after the crash, we must certainly not view the Council as a member of a business community. Of course, he is not, and he should not be. How wise it is that we do not take that step here because the Councilman has all other and more responsibilities than handle the property of the estate. It had to be discovered together and very good to conclude that we would disappear from putting this under the Secret Bank, although it would be reasonable and in fact obvious that financial assets for preservation flow into the Federal Bank. This is a good step, and I welcome it, at least for my criticism and for many others. Something else that seemed very strange to me in the original bill was the rich law of the destruction of those who came to be in charge of these substances in the company. I actually associated it with -- or it was a theory that became quite clear in my mind, and I feel that I can argue, that because the Navy really wanted nothing to do with this project, he required that employees who are going to do that work be harmless by their actions. That's not healthy. It is far better to set up a body with a clear responsibility and that the person who handles these assets should have them, i.e. State. The Ministry of Economics should represent the government's property and its members and the management of this group will not be harmless beyond what is normal. And, of course, the people involved in this difficult task are to be responsible for their actions. If it becomes known that the criminal act or even willfully violate it, it can be prosecuted. It was all very vague with the original harmful principle. Now it's just back and forth, it's gone from the bill. Today, there are much more natural circumstances and circumstances for all of this. It is obvious that no one will have to take personal responsibility for the company. The government will always defend the body against all accusations of the other and the very things that may come up. But that would have always been a matter for me, and I could not have heard anything else in the language but that it was obvious, so you don't have to have one of the very, very extensive, damaging rules that were in there. It was also said that the Society should be excluded from administrative law, but we emphasize here that it is based on administrative law and that information law applies. Similarly, improvements are expected to be made for information related to the General Assembly on the activities of this group. I welcome all these changes. So I'm speaking to my hat, the criticism I was most concerned with is the committee, and then, of course, I'm on the bill when my criticism was present. In the bright future, we have been positive about the road to stability and agreements with the old. On the other hand, we have emphasized that accepting all these valuable things is very difficult. Some are requirements; others are money, stock, and all kinds of possessions. Some decisions are made in judicial matters. It's going to take a lot of self-improvement. But at some point, you have to trust people. I must now admit that after all that has happened in the Icelandic economy, it is not easy. It is not easy to express that you plan to trust the people involved in this work, but I expect you still have to do it, and maybe it's time in this society after all the trouble that we're about to be ready to trust that those who choose to take these things and put them on price will do it well, they'll be fine. But it helps in this project to trust these people that the bill we are here with is good, and it has made good changes in the conduct of the committee and is the preferred basis for this challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u68	President. There's no need to extend the discussion much. I'm a representative of the United States of this Committee and the members of the Committee that have listened to talks here may have noticed that I do not sign the committee's opinion. That doesn't mean I suggest it to my council to lie against the bill, but we'll sit next to it. I agree with the speakers who have spoken before and who agree with many of the viewpoints presented in their case and, in particular, that the case has made a huge improvement since it first arrived at the council when it was intended to be a private partner in the Navy bank. As mentioned in the preceding talk, it was found that the zebra did not want this assignment, nor did he consider himself to be a part of it. Among these were the letters published by the U.S. Councilman from the fall when he made comments to the estates, the Council of Iceland's Office, which is different, as it has been shown, because it handles the Navy with possessions that flow into the Secret Bank. This was where he was assigned to handle the property of the State. It put me in my eye why they couldn't hear them directly under the secretary of finance. Things were different, and things have changed for the better. I emphasize that the responsibility of being fully prepared, i.e. that the political responsibility for the work of this company, even if it is a private partner, is with the secretary of finance. I think it's very important. It is also of great importance that the laws of this enterprise apply to administrative legislation and that the rules apply to the sale of state property should be followed. It's all very important. The transparency is important. The surveillance we were told should be there is important. On the other hand, this is a private partner. I would have thought there should be a state agency or an official community. They thought it was too heavy, saying: " This society is only supposed to work for a short time, and it's much easier to establish a private partner. It should then be put off and taken into the official ways that we may have had the opportunity to do so, i.e. On one hand, a government agency and an official community. That's mainly why I've decided to recommend it to my party to sit by the release of this bill, so I didn't think it was right to be on the committee's opinion. However, I do say and hope that it is clear and clear that the work of the Committee has made a great improvement, and the head of the Committee is worthy of great honor as to how he has worked on this matter. Yet the matter is the responsibility of the government, and we will sit by. That's why I didn't sign the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u69	V.E.G. President. I'm here to present this little matter of child-creature. The bill's text is simple, but I suggest at 4. 20. the law on social security, which adds up to a new court, with the permission of presidents: 'The same condition as if the father was a motherless child for a reason other than an article in 1 mgr. The Social Security Act contains a complete list of cases in which the payment of child care money can occur. In 1st. 20. it shows that children under 18 are paid if another parent is passed on or if they are a microenergy pensioner. If both parents are dead, or microenergy pensioners, then double the pension is paid. Four. 20. it says that children's pensions should be paid when there is an ID that suggests that a child will not be a father. This directive is used in cases where a single woman gives birth to a child using assisted reproduction techniques. But now only times have changed, and there are cases where a child has only a father, only a father. For example, it is when a father has produced a child with localist assistance outside Iceland and in cases where a single person has been granted permission to adopt. In these cases, the parent, the father, has no right to apply for a pension. This has been tested by applying for an insurance agency and requesting that it be legalized from the law that this applies also to a father and not to a mother alone. The Agency's conclusion was to reject it because the text of the law is clear. So there is no other way to correct this than to change the law. It's done with this bill. The plan is to ensure that if a child is only a father, it can be applied for a child's pension on the grounds of the law and that this is the full equality of the sexes. I know it's just Congress business. But I certainly hope that the council is able to complete this matter through a welfare committee. I hope that the welfare committee will respond because this is not only a matter of equality but also of laws that do not take into account modern times. We must want to fix it so that everyone is equal to the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u70	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people to whom I am the first messenger, and many members of the council are with me on this strict and well - off. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: The General concluded to commit the government to validate Iceland's agreement on the rights of disabled people approved at the UN General Assembly in New York on December 13, 2006. The proposal's report includes the following:Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: This arrangement suggests that the government will be committed to validate the rights of disabled persons approved at the United Nations General Assembly in New York on December 13, 2006, as mentioned earlier. The contract is a copy of the proposal. The objective of the contract is to promote, defend and ensure equal status of all individuals regardless of the degree of impairment. The agreement provides a guide to ensuring the same human rights and opportunities as others. It includes the recognition of the international community that, throughout history, disabled people have not had the same legal rights as opportunities for socializing as others. The contract is based on a social view of disability, as is 2 mg. 1st par. The contract, which says that to disabled persons, it is considered that those with long - standing physical, mental, or intellectual impairment or impaired perception and who face various obstacles that can prevent a full and successful community involvement from taking place just like others. As noted earlier, on December 13, 2006, the contract was adopted with a conclusion of No. 61/611. He was submitted for signing in New York on March 30, 2007, and signed for Iceland on the same day. The contract went into effect on May 3, 2008, when 20 countries had validated it. 156 countries are now members of the Union, as well as the European Union. A respected president may have suggested that, although I do not have the latest numbers, these countries have increased. During the signing of the contract on the part of Iceland, it was not considered necessary to give advance notice of its unique regulations. The following will explain the terms of the contract. The structure of the agreement is the same as with other recent human rights contracts, such as the United Nations Children's Convention. In the preamble of the contract, human rights are required to be intertwined, undisputed, and efficacious. Therefore, laws dealing with political rights are mixed with regulations that deal with economic, social, and cultural rights. Thus, like the children's covenant, the agreement is complete when faced with obligations. The contract is divided into five pieces. The first section includes, as well as forewords, the objective of the contract and definition. In the second, 3, breakdown9. "re., of course, is the principle of the contract. Third, i.e. 10,◯30. Article 6 of the Treaty, entitles the rights to be protected according to the contract. Fourth off, 31st to 1940. Article 4 of the Treaty, the procedure and supervision of the Treaty, and in the fifth sections of 41,◯50. par., traditional finals. First of the rights to be protected under the contract. The contract is primarily an equal agreement that is to ensure disabled people's equal positions. In other words, the obligation of the State to further progress in the seminary includes ongoing tasks in respecting, protecting, and ensuring the rights laid down in the contract. Based on the fact that human rights are a permanent project, the United Nations Committee on the rights of disabled people should be consulted in explaining the agreement and its articles. The objective of the contract is to promote, defend, and ensure the equal right of human rights and basic freedoms for all disabled people as well as to promote and work in respect for their natural human dignity. This is discussed in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1. The agreement includes all disabled persons. In fact, those who are disabled include others. those with long - standing physical, mental, or intellectual loss or impaired perception and who face various obstacles that can prevent a full and successful community involvement to match others, as discussed in paragraph 2 of paragraph 1. The principles of the contract are: a. Respect for inherent dignity, self - sufficiency, including the freedom to make personal decisions, and individual independence, b. Discrimination contraindicated, c. a full and active community involvement without separation, For example, respect for diversity and recognition of disabled people as part of human diversity and humanity, e. equal opportunity, f. bioavailability, g. equality between men and women, ............... [................. This is discussed in Article 3. The deal. Member States must ensure that the disabled are the rights of the contract by agreeing with appropriate legal regulations and administrative measures, by means of policies and by eliminating discrimination, by performing and promoting studies of absolute design, products, services and equipment, by providing people with information in available formats, by respecting, protecting, and taking measures to make economic, social, and cultural rights higher under the head and to their policy-making policies and legislation. It's in 4. Member States acknowledge that all are equal to the law and that any discrimination on the basis of disability is forbidden. In order to accomplish this, Member States will take measures to ensure appropriate adjustment for the disabled. Specific measures to speed up or achieve equality are not considered to be discrimination based on the contract. It's in 5. The Member States acknowledge that disabled women and girls are victims of multiple discrimination, and they should take steps to ensure that they have the full measure of human rights and freedom to match others. The Member States should take steps to ensure the development, progress and authority of women. The Member States should take all the necessary measures to allow disabled children to enjoy full - time human rights and basic freedoms to match other children. Member States commit themselves to agree with effective and appropriate measures to identify awareness in all areas of society, to counteract political ideas, prejudices, and harmful practices associated with disabled people. The measures taken should also be taken to increase awareness of the ability and contribution of disabled persons. The Member States should take appropriate action in order to enable disabled people to live their own lives and to share fully in all aspects of life. The measures to make sure that the disabled are accessible to like others to the material environment, transportation, information, and communication. Member States claim that each person has the right to life. The Member States should take all the necessary steps to ensure that the disabled are protected and protected in a crisis. A respectable president. The contract stipulates self - determination rights for disabled persons to the same extent that others do. People everywhere have the right to be recognized as law-enforced and should have their own sovereign capacity, and Member States should ensure access to the needed support. The measures should be appropriate and effective. The measures should be in accordance with the individual situation. The Kingdom should take all appropriate measures to ensure the right of the disabled in order to inherit and possess possessions. At the same time, the disabled will not be removed from their possessions. The active access of disabled persons to the justice system should be ensured. The Member States shall ensure that disabled people are entitled to freedom and immunity as much as to the fact that disability should under no circumstances justify a detriment of freedom. Freedom from torture or other cruel, inhuman or mini-invasive treatments or punishment should be ensured. Freedom from abuse, violence, and abuse must also be guaranteed. All disabled people have a right to respect their physical and spiritual immunity. The Member States should recognize the right of disabled people to travel as well as others, including those to whom they live. to guarantee that disabled people have the right to gain citizenship and that they have the freedom to leave any country. The children that are dressed shall have the same right as others to record, to be named, and to know their parents, and to take care of them. The Treaty calls on the right of disabled persons to live independent lives and lives without separateness in society, including the U.S. by making sure that disabled persons have the opportunity to choose a place to live and where and with whom they live, just as they do others, and that they are not made to live in a place where there is a specific home for living. It should also ensure that those who are disabled have access to a variety of social services, such as assistance in homes and other support, including the U.S. Personal help that is needed to live in the community without segregation and to prevent its isolation and separation from society. It should also be ensured that community services and facilities for the common people are available to disabled people. The Member States should take effective measures to ensure that individuals are enabled to travel and ensure the independence of disabled persons, as far as possible, including those who are disabled. by paying for all disabled persons to travel in the way they choose, and at the time they choose, and against the affordable price, and by encouraging the producers of tools to look to all the possibilities of disabled people for travel. The contract is about freedom of expression and communication. The Member States should take all appropriate measures to ensure that disabled people can use their right to express freedom of speech, including by providing disabled persons with information available to the public in available form and by means of available technology. Member States should acknowledge and facilitate the use of sign language, Braille, and unorthodox forms of communication. The media should be encouraged to make their services available to disabled people. There are laws on respect for privacy and respect for home and family. The contract contains general guidelines for the education of disabled persons, health, suitability and rehabilitation and work and work. The Member States also acknowledge the right of disabled persons to the appropriate lifestyle and the continued improvement in living conditions, and Member States should ensure political rights and opportunities to enjoy them to the same extent. Then there are the rights of disabled persons to participate in cultural activities, hobbies, leisure and sports. Member States commit to collect relevant information that enables them to achieve the objectives of the agreement. Member States also acknowledge the importance of international cooperation. A respectable president. I see my time is getting ready for this premiere, but about the implementation of the contract, it says, in this council decree: Member States should implement a system for the implementation of the contract and monitor it within the country. Civil society, especially the disabled, will be involved and will be fully involved in the surveillance process. A specific committee should monitor the implementation of the contract. Member States must submit a comprehensive report on the measures taken by the State to cover commitments within two years of the contract. Thereafter, reports should be sent no less than every four years. The Commission takes up the reports and offers general recommendations. The Committee shall agree with Member States and UN special organisations. Forty-five hundred and thirty-five. par. is a standard requirement for the Parliament of Member States, holding the contract, agreeing with the contract, validating, warning, changes, regulations and values of text. At 44. will be considered on the part of regional cohesion. It also says that the text of the contract is available in a accessible format. A respectable president. Then, in the Senate arrangement, you will find a section on comments to a few articles of the contract that discuss them all, a team for a team, but I'm sorry I can't go through them now. But what I'd like to say after the initial transfer of this case is that I have a name for all members of the council that we take this matter for discussion from this move and suggest that the matter be referred to the welfare committee and that the committee operates rapidly and effectively on this matter. We're supposed to be making a resolution to the synopsis before the council ends at the end of May. I think it would be a great challenge for all of us to accept this agreement and not to be submers of the nations. Actually, it's rather shameful to me as an Icelander that we shouldn't have validated the contract. Hence, the synopsis is presented. What I've been doing here for support is so that every senator I think should be able to unite in this. So I'm supposed to be the head of the board as well as the minority here at the General Assembly to board the sleeves, first on the welfare committee to take this matter for a material discussion, send it for review, and get guests, and finish the case so we can finish it in our own time. [[The president calls.]] It would be a real challenge for the Council to finish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u71	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller for recommending a proposal for a resolution of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people. I'm with a lot more heads. Councilmen are a co-opposer at the motion. I don't think it's necessary, but it's better to say that I really support this matter. I think that with this concierge proposal, we're going to insist. Congress members who operate in the administrative capacity to complete the changes to be made in the Icelandic legal environment in order to validate this agreement. Now it is, as shown in the language of the day. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, that Iceland signed this contract in March 2007. So it's been quite a while since Iceland made a debt to accept the contract and to deny that the work required to validate it is not yet finished. However, there has been considerable work to be done, both during the last terms in trying to map any layer that needs to be changed, and during this terms, this work has continued. But it just works out, Madam President, way too slow. You can only think that this may not be a matter of special importance because it has been nine years since we signed the contract. It was at some point before Christmas. The Minister of Internal Affairs recommended a bill related to validation of this agreement, and it was better, so the General agreed to that bill. But, unfortunately, it went all too far, for it was primarily a bandorm with the word "translations" in which the word "falmat" was replaced by the term "temporized people" to say. However, it did not contain any material changes. Of course, I realize that such changes are necessary, but they fail to be the only ones that continue to be satisfied, that only what is easier to do, and in itself, will not matter so much to support the status of disabled people. Of course, what we use when talking about other people is always important, but it does not change political content. I'd like to remind you that it is absolutely important, because this work is going on and we're committed because we're party to the deal, even though we haven't fully validated it, that we're going to take care of it and the Ministry will agree that all the laws set at the General Assembly are in harmony with the deal. On the other hand, there are new laws that are not in harmony with the agreement and are working to change the law to fulfill it. That's why I think it's very important that all Ministers and departments agree to review any prime radios that come from them in terms of the agreement, so we can prevent new laws that are not in harmony with him. Then I also think it's very important for everyone to go. Councilmen dedicate their vision to themselves. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller expressed himself so perfectly in his entropy speech, that everyone was disturbed. Councilmen develop the social vision presented in the contract. It would certainly make it easier for our work to see that everything we do here is in harmony with our agreement. I can see that it gets pushed quickly, so I want to take one example of what we need to think. Councilmen must dedicate themselves to us. Now it's like the 9th floor. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people deals with access. It shows that measures should be taken to ensure that disabled persons are able to access as well as others to material environment, transportation, information, and communication. I want to do something about what this means. In order for this article to work, we need to keep it in mind when laws are made for building houses. I'd like to mention the specific construction principle in this context. We need to think of regulations like building regulations to the beat of this contract and this 9th paragraph. Another example that I would like to mention is that we need to reflect on Count 9. is a transport plan. Accessable public transportation. Strengths to the disabled because of automobile purchases would also be dependent on transportation, since the life of disabled people cannot be thought of in small, closed - up places. It is not enough to have access to your home or the location in which you live or if the way in between is inaccessible. We need to think this whole thing up. Third, I'd like to mention access to information. It is designed to form a texting of material or even to put it on Braille or to present information in easy - to - understand language. In this context, I would like to give an outstanding example of this: The brochure of violence against disabled women, presented in easy - to - understand language. This will benefit all because it is especially available for all to approach the main points when it comes to the main issue of violence against disabled women. Finally, I want to make a decision that this contract, as important as it is, is not a new right to disabled people. It is only a matter that is already to be guaranteed according to general law, but it is not, because the law as it is now a discriminated people who are not taken into account their specific needs. All of that, I hope that this council proposal will be accepted quickly and well and that it will be the highest. The government encouraged us to get it over with and put powders in it so that we can validate this deal. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u72	President. First, I would like to thank a speaker for her fine talk and take the opportunity in return to express full support for this proposal. Pirams agree to a proposal for a resolution of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. I have often been amazed by such contracts and negotiations to discuss how long it takes to make them legally and work on what they contain. Hv. The senator was very much aware of the importance of this for one of our most vulnerable groups in the community. I wanted to ask. A senator whether she thinks there's a chance we can make it through now. I really hope so. I don't see any senator from the greater part of this proposal, and it grieves me. But I hope, just as we were able to reverse the validation of OPCAT, that we now succeed in ensuring this matter of progress, for I would in fact say that our community is a very deluxe if we don't. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she thinks it's possible to get this case through every spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u73	Madam President. Thank you. Birgitta I'm Jónsdóttir, but I don't know what you're talking about. Now I have to admit that I don't have a perfect picture or the board that can be found on the Homepage of the Ministry of State, where any songs are in order and where changes need to be made. I'm sorry, I don't have this picture in my head right now. I think there's a lot of work left to do. But I am absolutely convinced that if this matter was put first, then, of course, it would be possible to complete the changes in the laws needed to validate the contract. Whatever tracks you need to change has been mapped. All you have to do is change. I certainly hope so, as I said in my speech earlier that this council proposal will be the highest. Government--I don't know, Madam President, whether it can be said to say kick in the ass, but that she will encourage her to finish this case. I'd like to reiterate what I said earlier that I'm concerned that the terms of the contract are not being read right now, so there may be additions in the tail of matters that do not fulfill it. It's natural that it's totally unpleasant. But I think we, as senators, are also expected to have the ambition not only to the minister and the Ministry but also to protect ourselves when we make a case and try it on this agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u74	President. Thank you for a very meaningful answer. I totally agree with what. Senator. If you look at the proposal, you will see that much of the current legislation is in accordance with the terms of the agreement; therefore, there should be no great problem in validating the contract. What is often maintained in everything related to various stakeholders is that if there is not enough support for the Commission then it is necessary to ensure that basic human rights are the basic theme of the administration. That's very common. I really hope that we will find some more modern ways to monitor the administration and conduct all these conflicting factors in a good administrative way in order to pressure, without always having to take some strokes about things that are so said themselves. I hope that when the case goes to the committee, it will be done very well, all of this knows a thing well, and then we will see it become reality with the honour of the spring. I'm a tiny way out that my name isn't here, you don't always answer all the requests to be in, but I'm completely complete and a hundred percent on this matter, and I know that a lot of the senators in the greater part agree. It's my feeling.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u75	Madam President. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir Her Birgitta, Jónsdóttir Jons, declared that even though she is not an evangelizer, she supports her whole mind. I certainly hope that at the later stage, there are other steps. Councilmen forward and support the matter, whether in speech or in the payment of it, for I really hope so. The welfare committee will consider the matter and address it. Of course, I'd like to see the contract validated by spring. But I don't know, maybe it's a lot of optimism. At any rate, though, I thought that by 2017, when we were ten years from the time we signed our contract, we will have all those issues fixed. Then the law that has to be changed will be changed. Some may not feel that this is ambitious enough for me. But I don't know, I think maybe it's realistic. Then, everything that has to be changed in the legal environment will have been changed and a clear work trajectory will be established so that the laws we put will always be in order from now on. I'm worried that we're just not getting along with a general law source because we don't always think about it. How many people think about disabled people when they hear their name on a travel program? It is in all matters, especially in all these important matters, that we must remember to have all members of the community underneath. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u76	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I don't think that I need much discussion here on a previous discussion and the transfer of the case. I have great respect for this, and I say that it will be our job to follow up on the welfare committee at work there and then to try to get the case up for a second discussion and a vote before the assembly goes home at the end of May. I just want to guess what I didn't do at first, and I failed that, along with me, the movers are advising. paritaprevir Essphédin son of Skarphéðinsson, Ingadóttir, Svandís of Jakobsdóttir, Óttarr Proppé, Helgi Hrafn's Gunnarsson, Afni Páll Árnason, Árnadóttir Thornadótir, Brynhildur of Pétursdóttir, Ásta Helgadóttir, Sigirur Ingjöndjörndótir, Svavarsdóttir, Guðmundur Steingrímsson Helgi of Hjörvar. I'd like to guess, sir, that there were, of course, a lot more senators who wanted to be on the proposal, but this was the kind of thing that was arranged by the people at the outset. But I know a wide range of support for members of the Parliament in this regard. As I told you before, it's hard for us not to confirm the deal. Of the 157 parties to the contract, the document says here, when it was written, that 151 validated the contract. But I don't think it's true, that they've become more numerous, so there may be a few left, and it's a failure for us Icelanders to be there. A respectable president. As soon as I thank you for this discussion from then on. Jónsdóttir I think that all of us can agree to finish our first discussion with those words that are the last lines of the Parliament's resolution: In view of this proposal, it is time for the Icelandic government to remove the warning and take the step to the commitment value of this important contract to the full. It shall be my final statement here, but I have not said my last to get the case approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u77	President. I hereby recommend a small bill for a change in the law on the affairs of the elderly. It's really just two articles. The first article, with permission from the president, is as follows: ▪ A permanent resident in an institution for the elderly should be able to stay with his or her spouse. 2.g. has assumed that the law will take effect on January 1, 2018, to adjust. This bill is designed to ensure that married couples and couples remain together, even if one of them has to be temporarily or for a long time in an institution for the elderly because of health problems or skills. Since this court may seem unbelievable, many cases are forced to separate from one's will when it comes to these older and delicate years. The separation is heartbreaking, and it can be difficult and difficult for people, as well as for their family and family. It must be a matter of interest to the elderly to ensure this right to remain together, and as such a change would completely conflict with the views that are growing at the heart of the community, which is about to promote the right of independence and self - determination of older people. According to a bill report, criticism of the existing arrangement resulted in the spring of 2013 being at its height. The minister of welfare and the director of His Majesty signed a two - year trial contract that meant that a husband and wife could live together in a nursing home at the Hafuna, although only one of them needed to do so for health reasons. The final report of the 2015 project explains that it is consistent with the opinion of everyone involved in this assignment that the task has not been carried out. It suggested that the proposed mechanism of action not be continued. Instead, a mate would be given an advantage at home with a nursing home and frequent visits, but that option has, of course, been available for some time. They must be made aware of these conclusions that they were based only on two members of the household and their mates, on the other hand, for three weeks and for 11 months, so that the group was not a large group on which the conclusion was based. The report merely describes the opinions of employees and executives at the Hrafnyt, not the attitudes of their own home, which is also thought - provoking. The design of this bill was investigated the right couples to live together at institutions for the elderly in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. Such rights are for people in these lands, although they may be of different loyalty. In Denmark, the right older citizens to live together is guaranteed by social housing laws and social services laws. In Norway, rural society operates as a law on health care and community service. There, however, some rural communities, including Oslo, have committed themselves to providing marriage and living together in nursing homes. These requirements have thus been met. With a change in social services law in Sweden from 2012 to older citizens living in nursing homes or in other special homes for the elderly, older ones were granted the right to be married to their mates. This change of law was designed to increase the self - determination of the elderly. The legislation being proposed by the bill is in that spirit. The court in these lands is based on the precept that increasing both the rights and the quality of life of the elderly, a goal that all of us will have to share, and to that end, there are some reasons. That argument must apply here, as it did. Data is not available now when the bill is presented for a number of people in this country who may be expected to benefit from this right, but the report in Sweden found that few applied to live together on the basis of this first-to-be adjustment of the law. The people who chose that option had generally been separated for a long time, often 60 to 170 years, but they were generally happy with it among the members of the household and directors of the institutions that it was an option. This was thought to improve the well - being of older ones and especially their sense of security. The main problems were felt that healthy individuals felt obliged to accompany partners to clinics where they did not want to, and that there would be added strain on the institutions that husbands stayed there after the death of those who had to stay there for health reasons. Of course, there is a view that needs to be considered and much to be considered. The welfare committee is expected to take that into consideration. There are other matters to consider before such rights would be granted to the law as presented here. Therefore, adaptive period in the bill, as presented, to January 1, 2018, is intended to learn from the experience of neighboring nations, some of which are not long and of course, of course, of all importance, to explore the minds of older citizens living in nursing homes, i.e. those who would enjoy the ministry, so that plans can be made for needed changes. It is assumed that the hosts of the households can raise the elderly's financial resources to the changes that would have to be done under the current legislation on the affairs of the elderly. These costs are seen in the current law as far as they all go. V.E.G. President. Now I've finished measuring for this bill, and I expect that there will be some material and positive coverage in that bill. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u78	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct a law on basic school No. 91/2008 (human rights). Transporters with me have a problem. The members of Óttarr Proppé, Hrafn Steingrímsson, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, Róbert Marshall, Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Mnæn Gunnarsson, Össur Skarphéðinsson, Árnadóttir Thurna, and Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. In 1st. This bill says: ▪ Follow the words of its history and distinctive language of the 1st. 2 mg. 2.g. The law comes: human rights. But 2. Basic school is the very object of basic school law. Two. The bill says: ▪ This law already comes into effect. The article that follows the bill says: The Universal Declaration of Human Rights since 1948 provides the basis for which international human rights treaties are based. Icelanders have become members of all the most important treaties in this area and have actively participated in them. It may be said that among the population, internationally acceptable human rights should be one of the principal causes of Icelandic society. People's basic rights are also protected in the Icelandic constitution. A new 2011 main course of education is democracy and human rights to one of the top six basic mines. The core benefits are based on the goals that are already in the law of respect for worth and participation in a democracies society but also a great deal of cooperation with school students throughout the country. So it is necessary to ensure that the Icelandic school system emphasizes the understanding of human rights and their respect for the human rights of others and their ability to protect their own human rights. Respect for people, equal opportunities, and diversity in human life have become a red thread in all human rights contracts. You can even say that. From 1989 onward, the United Nations children's covenant with the Icelanders began in 1992 and was introduced into Icelandic legislation in 2013. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. of 42rd. The contract is committed by Member States to present the principles and terms of this contract in many areas, in a relevant and active way, children and adults. Therefore, it is necessary for the Icelandic school system to ensure that all Icelandic children can understand the important rights and obligations of this agreement. The aim of basic school law is to promote the education of students and to promote their skills in Icelandic languages, their understanding of Icelandic society, their history and their characteristics, their happiness, and the individual responsibilities toward society, the environment, and the world around them. This bill suggests that human rights will be given among those given specifically. Thus, the human rights of the law, which is natural, will be set up, and that will ensure that all elementary schools contribute to the understanding of students of human rights and respect for them. V.E.G. President. Never has there been a greater need for this than at present that we add to a child's understanding of the human rights. Especially in view of the recent discussions, the refugees and the refugees and the world situation, I think we should focus on people's understanding of human rights. Despite the fact that it is true here that the people of the country are very lonely about this, you have noticed in these last days that it is not quite that way. You wonder what people are thinking, if something has not gone wrong when you read what is said in comments and what has been said. Councilmen even give up here on a talk chair. As a teacher, I have personally experienced that children in the 10th grade where I was teaching had no idea what human rights were going on or what the focus of basic school law was about. The objective, the goal of high school - they could not answer, for example, what responsibility or respect meant, they just had no idea. It tells me that we certainly need to improve our social education, and especially in this, that people realize what human rights are. I was given the same day a book by Ágúst Þór Árnason of the University of Akureyri law about human rights, which he wrote in 1994 for the Red Cross of Iceland. After putting that book and going through it, I think it would be a very good teaching material in the basic schools of the country. I also received an appeal for not putting this into a school and high school goal. After I realized that maybe it was time for me to do so. Of course, education of our children is a key school. Education is about creating good people, people who are ready to work in a community for themselves and others. It is vital that we teach children human rights and what they do, but they also need to understand their responsibilities; it is not only that you have rights but that you also have responsibilities. I really hope that this case will be discussed in the spring council and agreed to do so, for it is probably part of a school goal. It is urgent, especially in these last and worst times, that people realize the importance of human rights in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u79	President. I hereby recommend a synonym of irreprehensible substitution, or civil pay. Transporters are Halldóra Mogensen, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, and Birgitta Jónsdóttir. I just want to review some important facts before I review the conclusions myself. First of all, the Pirantar has not submitted a civilian policy. By offering this proposal for action, we are creating a basis to see if it is possible and wise to submit a civil salary policy. You can never go to policy jobs unless you have every basis for it and when talking about fundamental changes in society, it is necessary to get a complete opinion of why and the consequences of taking up this course. A lot of discussion has developed this way, not just in Iceland, but in many countries where we would like to look in many contexts. In June we are going to the Swiss National Records on whether the Swiss intend to pick up their citizen's salary. At that time, about 20 rural societies in the Netherlands have decided to explore this process, as well as Finns have recently experimented with this method of changing their community structure. I have a very short period of time, but I'm going to read up some of the key things. The General concluded to hide a social and housing minister in cooperation with a financial and economic minister to appoint a team as a map to ensure that all the citizens of the country have unprovable frameworks with the aim of strengthening people's economic and social rights and eliminating poverty. The Group will appoint five individuals with expertise in economic and social matters. The Department of Social Affairs is enforcing the Chairman of the Group. At their jobs, a group of detailed consultations with the European Union of Iceland, the Alliance of colleges, the Union of Staff of State and Towns, EAPN Iceland, the Fong of senior citizens, the National Institute of Equal Opportunities, Iceland's New Arts, the Union of Iceland, the European Union of Employment, the Managership of Children and Iceland's Qualified Society, as well as other members with whom he feels right to discuss. The task force must look for ways to ensure all citizens of unprovable infrastructure. If you do this work, please: a. assessment of costs and defects of different means of unfounded superficial implementation, including with regard to the current social security systems and other forwarding systems, their complexity, their targets and effectiveness and their impact on the survival and buying of different community groups, b. A summary of baseline and consumption criteria observed in this country and their benefits and weaknesses, c. cost analysis of possible means of uptake of unrecognised core progress based on the current system's operating costs, d. holistic evaluation of the impact of unprovable frameworks on all state and local tax and rural systems including secondary effects on the health system, police, court and prison affairs, educational systems etc., with particular attention to potential savings, e. the exact publication of all public improvements, remuneration, funding, etc., which may be eliminated by the recording of unprovable frameworks, B. examination of how to make the most money funding the project, g assessment of methods to measure the social impact of unrecognised core inputs on and by system uptake, h. assessments of benefits and defects of modified community making that are expected to result in the system. The work will be considered to be the experience of other countries where experiments have been carried out, including in terms of saving that has been achieved by a reduced level of inefficiency and a lower cost of operating and the cost of falling, as well as other social and economic impacts. They will seek the help and guidance of national and international experts, as well as stakeholders and relief parties as needed. The report highlights a few things that I find important to address: ▪ The concept of welfare and human rights includes fundamental differences, for the welfare is not a legal concept and does not refer to human rights in itself, and should be borne in mind that the State is obliged to ensure that certain needs of the country are present, not on the basis of welfare or charity, but on the basis of legal rights. Poverty in Iceland is largely the result of an Icelandic welfare policy based on a conditional well - being reserve in the form of minimal help and emphasis on charity and charity for the worst. Throughout the years, the Icelandic state has established laws and regulations that give people so little compensation that the amount is within the poverty market. According to Iceland's Habitat, in 2014 there were 34,500 people, or 11.1% of the country's population, below the minimum limit, or at risk of social isolation. Studies conducted in the lives and circumstances of the poor clearly show how serious the consequences of poverty have been for the community as a whole. The lives of the poor are characterized by a great deal of spiritual stress, distress, and degradation, leading to a loss of self - respect, grief, anxiety, and a breakdown in mental and physical health. Poverty contributes to the loss of a social train by individuals, including children, losing the spirit of competition and thus not enjoying the opportunities and quality that are considered normal in society. The results show that babies born into poverty are in grave danger of going into life with a broken self - image and experience as second - rate citizens. If the aim is to ensure that all citizens of the country can be actively involved in democratic society, economic and social rights must share the same law as civil and political rights. The consequences of excluding involvement in the community of the troubled social rights group will cost us longer. The wishes of the Icelanders must be a community where human rights, democracy, and freedom are highly emphasised. Without a foundation development, there is an idea that a system designed to replace or at least simplify the social security system, make it more righteous, and also uproot a certain built - in discrepancies in society. This is done by paying each citizen a small amount of money from the state regardless of employment or other incomes. This amount is thought to be a basis for improvement to ensure the economic and social rights that Iceland is contracting to secure under the UN International Convention on Economic, Social, and Culture Rights. In other words, this is a type of shallow growth which differs from the defined basic progress used in various European countries because it is: 1st paid to individuals rather than authorized, 2nd no matter what other takes, 3 without a prior requirement or willingness to accept the job oers. Some countries have experimented with irresistibly shallow progress. In North America, between 1968 and1980, five different attempts were carried out on the subject of unprovable infrastructure. The purpose of this experiment was mainly to investigate the impact on the labour market. The first attempt took place in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, in 1968,1972, where people were examined. Another attempt was made in Gary, Indiana, to examine the effect on single parents. A third attempt was carried out in North Carolina and Iowa to investigate the effects on the region. The fourth attempt in Seattle-Denver was the most proud and reached a much larger population. The test was ▪ Innomme Maintenance Experiment, and it was completed in the first century C.E. The last attempt with GAI, also the most famous, was called MabIOMA, which took place in the town of Daupin, Manitoba, Canada, in 1974,1979. The results of these different experiments were surprising, since there seemed to be little impact on the workforce but there was a significant impact on the physical and mental health of people and their opportunities for education. Those who stopped working or reduced their hours were mostly women who chose to spend more time in the home, and the children and young ones who chose to be educated, thus delaying their arrival in the workforce. In North Carolina, children of experimental families showed improved results in primary school testing. In New Jersey, tests were not collected, but there was a positive effect on the school program of children, with a large reduction in deletion. One experiment had a large increase in adult education. These findings were rather remarkable in view of the fact that scholars have long considered it almost impossible to influence test results, deletions, or decisions directly involved. In the Indiana experiment, a positive effect on birth weight was found in high risk groups. The results of the Manitoba experiment showed a reduction in hospitalisations and particularly hospitalisations for accidents and injuries and psychiatric disorders. The rate of health care saving was 8.5% during the study period. In Alaska, the oil industry began in 1977 with the largest oil source discovered in North America. A short time later, a Constitution was made that enabled the government to set up a fund called ◯Alaska Letter Fund to set aside items (at least 25%) of the oil industry's income for future generations. When the fund was founded, it was intended to prevent all the income of oil production from being consumed by politicians who feared that money would be wasted. The Alaska Fund is an investment fund with the aim of profiting about 5% a year and being the capital payer paid out to all Alaska citizens every year. Although the amount may not be high enough to cover basic progress, $900 per person in 2013, the Alaska Fund alone is a reflection of how the required framework might be implemented. In Namibia, the impact of unrecognized shallow development was under way in 2007, and this study lasted for two years. The study was conducted in a small village of extreme poverty, crime were frequent, and unemployment was high. It was decided to pay the entire population of the region (excluding those at 60 years of age and already those who received conditional pensions from the state) monthly amount as sensitive to half of the amount defined as poverty bounds. The results of this experiment were many, but to mention the major, the reported number of crimes dropped to the police by 36.5%, the percentage of undernourished children fell from 42% to 10%, the school drop was 42%, unemployment decreased from 60% to 45%, and employment participation increased, with the exception of the magnitude, 29% increased, and a number of new enterprises were formed. Now I don't have the time to read everything that comes out of a paper, but there's a lot of knowledge in there. I think it's very important that we look at the systems we've developed, and have become enormous and extensive, humane. Today, we have heard that people diagnosed with serious illnesses, such as cancer, have to pay a lot of money during illness. We have heard and repeated that both older people and high - risk people face poverty and those who live under illness find themselves on walls that have become so complex that there is no way to resolve them. I think it's worth looking at this route and getting at least all the details. It is possible to test such a system solely for those who have to accept benefits. You can try this in villages where there's a lot of unemployment in Iceland. At least I feel that, considering how many offenders you see on the present system, not just necessary, but obliged to explore other ways. Based on what I have studied in civilian pay, I find it a practical option at a time in which the unemployment rate of young people around us increases and is estimated to be fewer and fewer because of technical progress. What are we going to do then? Are we going to leave all our young people on unemployment, or are we going to build a foundation for another society where people don't have to live with constant anxiety about advancement?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Birgitta Jón's Jónsdóttir for the talk on this proposal for the interpretation that she recommended, there is no basic development. Last assembly was offered a reason. 1st Artist of the proposal, Halldóra Mogensen, me being one of the partners. I found the matter interesting, so I took a considerable time to read the suggestions and the paper thoroughly and think it over. I certainly agree with what is said at the outset of the suggestions on the goal of eliminating poverty and strengthening people's economic and social rights. In effect, those passwords in the sentence led to my giving the case time and thought it was worthwhile. I concluded that I didn't want to be an importer. I would like to use my talk period here to relate to what it was that led me to that conclusion. I hope that's what it can do for a reason. a welfare committee to look into their work, but after the discussion today, the proposal will be referred to that committee. First, I disagree with what is stated in the report that poverty in Iceland is the result of Icelandic welfare policy. This does not mean that I am not critical of the well - being policy we have been expelled here, but I do believe that poverty and discrepancies would be much greater if it wasn't for the welfare policy we've had and for the welfare systems we've built up, as well as for a strong labor movement that I believe would be relevant to. Of course, much better can be done. There is a need to do much better. But I'm Greek, so it's the way. In short, I agree with the conclusion that the movers reach, i.e. I will destroy poverty, and strengthen the economic and social standing of people, but that is the civilian wage, as if it were based on the report that I am skeptical of; I don't think they are the right way. This does not mean that I object to reviewing some interesting points set in the motion. I'm not going to question whether it's a good thing for every community to look at the system it has. It must be good for us to examine our welfare system, for I really don't object to the fact that it will be done on the job of looking into it. On the other hand, I am very skeptical about the factor, which speaks of irreprehensible progress without regard for other rewards. As a result, the state pays them all evenly, regardless of how people earn money. I simply don't think it's a good use of the capital that one community has for each occasion. Now we can argue about it here in this hall how to earn enough money to run the community and then again how to dispose of it. Although there are ways to save some of the combined effects of not running a system, at least I would like to see the calculations that convince me of or help me to see the better results of people who have no income other than the basic development. I'm worried that if the system became like this, people with little or no job ability will be systemized in the community, because they will always be on the shallow forward, while others have income, income, capital gains, whatever income they earn, on top of basic progress. In this context, I would like to remind you and review the discussion that was here in this hall in connection with 2016's budget. We discussed, among other things, whether compensation for disability and sensibilities should be accompanied by increases and increases in minimum wage. A few of them. Councilmen made that observation, including the highest. Secretary of finance, that they believed that minimum wages should be higher than compensation, and you would have, among other things, evidence that there was a risk of seeking compensation. Of course, we could prevent anyone from applying to go on compensations that don't need it if everyone gets paid compensations, but me and others get paid. For example, members of Congress reasoned that we do not feel that it should be written into the system that disabled people or older ones, for example, should be systematicly submissive to others. That's basically what I think is most wrong with the proposal for irreplaceable implementation. A single Mass may be worth considering. The welfare committee. [[The president calls.]] I certainly look forward to seeing the reviews that come from different sources. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to reading them and then taking another turn on this matter here during a second discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u81	President. I'd like to reiterate that we're only going on a reconnaissance tour of the system to see this or any other route; there's a lot of outputs from the civilians. At the same time, we watch very carefully how we manage the countries around us. For example, one of the many grass - based groups that are found in the European Union of Podemos, Spain, is a basic subsidiary. There's a lot of fermentation and a lot of research in Europe, and we're just starting to figure out what's possible. I couldn't agree. A senator who has discussed this process and knows that no one who says that this suggestion would ever want to be able to make the terms of those who are at least to be found worse. Never. I think we should be delighted to have an opportunity to discuss this matter rather on a committee with those who are concerned with these matters, different institutions, members of society. I'm glad that we have the opportunity to discuss these matters rather and to look forward to further discussions. paritaprevir Steinunn's aged Þóra's Árnadóttir on these matters. We're burning up in time right now, but I'm looking forward to more communication and talking about civilian pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-02-84.u82	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for a synopsis proposal for advanced milk science. That's the second time I've made the decision, but this time there are five parties to the Senate resolution proposal. I've been waiting almost a year and a half before to reinvent the matter in the meantime. The report explains the purpose of the synopsis proposal. I'm not going to go into him specifically now, but in the ground, we're expected to have a more efficient review of the progressive study of milk science. During the last assembly, the matter was made available to a committee for review. The process included a national relationship between cows'farmers, Iceland's Galologists'Association, the milk - industry Association, the firms of industry, and the firms of industry, who were positive and gave a good impression of the situation, and what was needed to be considered in this matter. The report mentions the waiting for students to endure. The reviews that were handled at the last assembly also show the need for the Senate arrangement to be paid to make a better examination of these issues and to take into account some of the factors presented in the reviews. About a year after I first laid down the matter, I noticed that an order in the educational committee of the milk industry was delayed. So she would have been, in effect, out of control since February 2015, i.e. ... betweenthe contributions of my synopsis proposal for growing milk studies. I had a word with the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture for Command and, in fact, an order in the educational committee of the milk industry at the highest level. A minister repeated to me that although the time of the command had expired, there had been a request for nominees in the committee and that it would be arranged as soon as the appointment was received. Some time ago, at the beginning of this year, it was found that the code of high school had been changed in 2008. They did not provide the support that was in the previous songs from 1996 on milk studies. I hope then it was corrected so that an order can be completed in the educational committee of the milk industry. I have no doubt that even if the synopsis proposal had actually gone further in a previous discussion, this would also have been true. I also believe that it is important that we receive information from the Ministry on the work that was being carried out in the setting for study in Denmark that changed school fees three years ago and focused only on foreign students in Denmark. Here I refer to the fact that the study in milk science has usually been through Denmark. V.E.G. A minister had mentioned that this arrangement needs to be considered, trying to find some way to cooperate with Denmark and the government there to help English students who wanted to study there. So I shall bring the council proposal back to the council, along with the surly. with my importers, huh? Councilmen Elín Hirst, Anna Sævarsdóttir, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, and Elsa Arnardóttir Arnardótir.
