ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u1	Borist has a letter from the 7th. Smoke. S., Gunnar Hrafn Jónsson, says that he will not be able to be a senator in the near future. Today, therefore, Viktor Orri Valgarðsson is taking his seat at the Council. Viktor Orri Valgarðsson's letter has already been investigated and agreed, but he has not taken his place before in the Council and must sign his pledge to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u2	Viktor Orri Valgarðsson has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to join the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u3	The president considers that a meeting meeting can last longer today, while the body of Congress dictates the need if no one makes such a comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u4	Mr. President. During the changes presented here in the State's Pension Fund, there is great opposition within the left movement to a green supply, especially because the matter seems to meet a great deal of opposition in those affected by it. The thought behind it was all the time to achieve general peace over the changes in the land's pension rights. As mentioned in my speech on the subject yesterday, it is most unfortunate for people to interpret the agreement made in such a different and extremely bad way that we are working on it in the same amount of time as we really do so that we face extreme opposition in the community. I recommend that the motion be taken. A report has been sent today by the Economic and Business Committee to consider between the 2nd and 3rd committees. It's a suggestion that comes from the Union of Human Resources... and seeks the possibility of settling matters. I suggest that the matter be discussed with a committee. With that reasoning, I'll be sitting by myself at this point, but as I say, there's a real opposition to the situation within the left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u5	Mr. President. It is the joint position of the Group of Congress that it is appropriate to settle the civil and public pension rights between the public and the general labour market. Sadly, though, this issue has not been a well - worked case, and it is best seen in the different understanding of whether the bill meets the agreement made in the fall, and this bill is based on it. The Group of Group members supports all the changes presented here, both from the major part and from the smaller part. Mr. President. My particular emphasis is on what happened. Councilmen agree to the change as 2 smaller things, i.e. I, I'm out. It is first of all about securing the pension rights of public employees but on the other hand, for precautionary reasons. These changes match the agreement made in the fall and take part of the comments received by the committee. The changes are important to make more sense of the equal pension rights and thus increase the likelihood that a global agreement with the labour market partners will achieve an improved standard of living in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u6	A respectable president. For decades, the state, the public labour market, has been up to a pension fund that is not sustainable. A limp builds up every year. Everyone seems to agree that this knot needs to be cut, and here we have a unique opportunity to do so with money through the stability process. Everyone's happy about it, everyone's spoken for the important thing, but then people are just going to get kicked off the train when it comes to making it all right for the future. It's very unfortunate, Mr. Honorable President, and in no way responsible. They're making a system adjustment while the money is being pushed so that the snowbolt will not continue to roll and reload. If this is not done, we are standing in exactly the same place in a few years. Is that what people want? Wants what? Councilmen offer young people what future taxpayers? That's what's going to happen. Also important is the balance between the public market and the general market. That's what we have to do, it's gonna be easier to do now that we fix this pension system all together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u7	A respectable president. It is heavier than tears to say that this matter is in its perplexing state. It started out well in the fall when the parties showed great trust in each other. I'm sorry, but I failed at the highest level. So Bjarni Benediktsson's secretary of finance gave a bill that was not in accordance with the agreement that was signed. It is empty to talk about any agreement on this matter, if the bill is accepted, it is merely an authority to change the pension fund into the opposition of those to whom we live. Whether the bill will pass the constitution, the tools are about whether the pension is a part of pay or not, but there are no tools that do not agree with it. I'll vote against the bill and I'll state that I'm disappointed that we have not been able to work as important a matter in greater solidarity as by listening more to one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u8	Mr. President. Sadly, the objective of this matter has not been met. In the community, there is an excellent agreement to make these changes, but there have been overcrowding; there have been insufficient efforts to ensure some of the conditions that it can go through in the way it is being suggested. There has been no assessment of its overall economic effects. This could be a dangerous economy, and it's a violation of a contract with the paymen involved. As a result, I cannot at the moment agree that the matter is settled. I'd love to, I'll say no, but I'd wish we could win this better, in a better void, and don't take unnecessary risks with society.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u9	A respectable president. Here's another thing we're working on too much time right before Christmas. This is a fundamental matter that should be settled. Most agree on the goal, but the project has gone wrong at the highest level. The secretary of finance and economics so that those involved in the agreement against the state are most, if not all, to be disagreeable, to point out a major problem in the matter, that it may possibly violate the Constitutional rights, and encourage us not to go through it quickly. I think that's probably happening, and I'm not gonna be able to support this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u10	President. I may take to heart the warning given here on this matter. The point is that it is complex and will result in significant changes. It is a matter of opinion whether this violates the property rights, the constitutions I would have thought the Independence Party would not be much for participating in, taking such a risk compared to his previous lawsuit. But the situation is also so clear, there is little debate in the community, and those with these rights are not aware of what is being done in the chamber. So I dare to go over the matter properly, discuss it in detail, and have this process more easily and more productive.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u11	A respectable president. It's been a while since I got involved in politics. When I started up with them, the guys said they wanted to see what happens now if we accept this matter. I want to take this opportunity to thank all those involved, especially the highest. Secretary of finance and all the agents who have gone to this difficult task. We only have this only chance now for reasons that everyone knows. I don't think everyone's gonna have a problem. Members of the council, who have come to this matter, were conscientious and hardworking in this regard. There are some things that remain, but they are not directly related to this matter. We are taking a very big step, and future generations will thank those who stood for completing this task.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u12	A respectable president. As we have seen, this matter has been worked out for a very long time. The objective is to create, on the other hand, an integrated and sustainable pension system for all the people of the country, a project that I think in this room all agree. In order to accomplish this, changes are assured that there will be no impairment of current financial development. In fact, those 60 years of age and older will also enjoy that assurance. The situation is that we can pay over 100 billion to finish this matter now, i.e. 108 billion. The choices we face are that they will do nothing and raise their wages both for state and rural areas by 4◯5%, on significant sums, and sending the bill into the future, in future generations. That is the choice we now face. We are simply in an unusual position to cut the knot that many have been dealing with for a very long time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u13	A respectable president. It is quite simple, though, to argue that it is only natural for everyone to agree on this. It's not normal, it's normal. What a wonderful news it was when an agreement was made with the entire organization of government associates! This is the case with interest that not everyone has been content with the matter from the beginning. Throughout the process, comments have been made. Many government employees do not want any change in any kind to be taken away from their responsible state. They exist. They have shown up in this treatment of the matter here at the council. They've had loud protests. That was prepared. But that's a very different debate than whether the bill is in accordance with the agreement. It is not true when it is claimed that the agreement signed in the fall set out that the responsible state would live for all public employees until they do an amplification. [[The president calls.]] That's wrong. It is a fundamental premise that was taken from all the time that the back responsibility would be removed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u14	Mr. President. This change turns to those whose rights are stored. That's a reason to secure all the funds of pensions, not just the one who has paid to the fund during the past 12 months. I mean, the individuals who have paid for the fund, even for a very long time, but who have decided to move to the public market and not get the pension money, they decide to return to the public system. This is primarily fair, that they are equal with those working within the public system today. The change is that this group can move back to the public market and enjoy the privilege of sharing in it before. This is also meeting the objectives of the agreement on greater mobility between the public and the general labour market than if the proposal is not approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u15	Mr. President. There are many fine modifications made to the defective bill that is being elected. I will accept all of them except for those of today's votes, although I will say no to all the regulations of the bill. The suggestions made under the commission are good and to make good of bad ones. I will, however, sit by this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u16	Mr. President. It is important, as it has shown, to live by the agreement on which the bill is based. This article changed from its late autumn onward. Preservations were prescribed if 10% of the problem's insurance status was lost in one year. This was in an agreement made in the fall, and it is made in the appendix with that agreement. This suggestion suggests that the five - year period should be considered without proper explanations for the agreed parties. This work is devoid of trust between parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u17	Mr. President. Here is a provisional principle designed to match comments made by the bill that the pension age of a particular class might be lower than that of other classes because of the pressures of the job. To meet these views, it is suggested that a panel of employees be appointed to be represented by the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, and a trade union in a public labour market, which is a comprehensive definition of the need to reduce the pensional age for certain classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u18	A respectable president. As a member of the British Parliament, we agree with the views presented before the committee to form in unions such as the staff who perform extremely heavy jobs, it should be taken into account as to whether an increase in pensional age is reasonable. That's why we're paying our vote for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u19	V.E.G. President. This is where we vote for a change-in-law 1st-mind of the Economic and Business Committee, from the left-green Katrín Jakobsdóttir. We in the leading category vote for this provisional principle, which involves the establishment of a minister in the implementation of the legislation of these ships by representatives of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and trade union unions in the general and public labour markets, which provide a comprehensive definition of the need to reduce the pensioning age for certain classes. We'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u20	A respectable president. The Parliamentary Organization supports the view that certain classes may well be considered to have a different retirement age than the general population. On the other hand, the panel believes that this is an abnormal practice by the lawgiver to intervene in the labour market, as well as the opinion that the Council feels that the proposal presented here is faulty because it is assumed that the arrival of a trade union in a general labour market and, for example, not to be supported by a body of employment that we believe would strengthen the case. In fact, this proposal did not appear on the committee and could have been discussed there. But we won't vote, and I won't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-21-9.u21	A respectable president. I can only account for my vote because I accept this change proposal, even though I object to this bill. I think the adjustment is a great improvement. This work would have been done much sooner in the process. If so, we would have a much clearer case for ourselves now than we are, unfortunately. I support the adjustment proposal, even though I object to the approval of the whole bill.
