ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u1	A respectable president. I'm concerned with the advice of the EFTA Court yesterday. In view of the Court's opinion, the EEA commits that its Member States should allow the import of fresh meat as long as it has passed health control in their home country. It is not permitted to demand that products be frozen, as the Icelandic government has always required. However, I would like to make a decision that is considered to be a counselor and not automatically abdicating existing rules in Iceland. Over the years veterinary surgeons and other experts who are best familiar with this field have warned against importing fresh meat. With the permission of the president, I would like to quote the words of Dr. Vilhjálmur Svansson, a veterinarian at the University of Iceland at Köldum, in the News magazine, where he gives this conclusion to the public and animal health report for those who have human and animal health for the breast. The import of raw meat to Iceland was banned from animal disease protection and was the first law in that direction set in 1882. Iceland's situation in terms of animal diseases is unique in the world and should be maintained by all means. The purpose of the ban is complex and includes ensuring that the most wholesome food in the country, helping to produce expensive food, preserving genetic diversity, or genetic resources, reducing drug costs, protecting human health, and so on. An animal's assistance is to promote the well - being of the animals in the country by preventing new infectious diseases from reaching the country. At the same time, the groundwork is laid for continuing to produce healthy agricultural products, free of the consequences of certain diseases, or related products. Besides, we could discuss the undesirable environmental effects of meat transport, which is another matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u2	A respectable president. During the past few weeks, there has been a few discussions about the government's contract with a hospital hotel. The discussion focuses our attention on what limits to agreements with private members for the implementation of fundamental management services, such as health care. I'd like to express the opinion that it is risky to negotiate with a member of a professional investor for such a service because, as a result of their need, they are a profiteerated in the nature of the situation, paying interest on their business to their owners. That money will get out of medical care and will not be a source of service. Sedation's experience is very bitter in this part of agreement, that profit-employing enterprises make profits and the need for interest in money more for themselves in the ministry if there is a choice between these two. It's unacceptable. Of course, it is and should be allowed to negotiate with employees-infested enterprises who are unable to pay interest from their activities, but we are supposed to unite on the main points that there will be no agreement for the implementation of health services to businesses who are profit-employed and paid for their activities. We're supposed to set up a staff ownership requirement and that the budget is closed so that money can't be paid if it's negotiated with a private health care provider.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u3	Mr. President. It is contradictory that at the same time as we rejoice that the nation's interests are improving over a year, and we are getting away from the tribulations of the postmortem period, all too often reports are coming about the decline of the services in various areas. Whether large - scale mail distribution services in large areas of the country are available for one week, such as just one week ago, in which this service is cut down by as much as half of some places or then now, reports that air traffic control at the airport at Akureyri is being cut off from what has been and even decades ago. How sad it is if we cannot endure at least as good a ministry in this respect as has been through thick and thin in the last two decades! While there may be more or more than a lack of money, which, in some way, may cause problems with human operations by qualified air traffic managers, we must make the requirement to the government to handle these matters an effort to resolve such matters by temporary means until men have been trained up to fill the gaps. As far as I know, at the national Service Convention on Istavia, there are regulations that in Akureyri Airport air traffic services should be held 24 hours a day, just like Reykjavík airfield and Cheflavík, as these are three of the largest airports in the country. In addition, Akureyri is the center of a medical flight in the country, which, of course, needs a firm access to such a ministry 24 hours a year around us. I'd like to use this opportunity and challenge those with these issues to try to sort out the situation and do better than now, and maybe the best environmental and transport committee would have used one meeting for less reason than the review of the situation in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u4	Mr. President. Not long ago. The Minister of Home and Social Affairs had the head of the finance Department deliver energy bars with greetings. V.E.G. Home and social security minister wanted people to think that it was the laziness of the Ministry of finance to blame the lack of housing products, but it's far from true. However, the Ministry officials were unable to defend themselves against this humble attack, and this was known to be the highest level of knowledge. Minister well. V.E.G. The head of housing and social services was afraid to speak to the highest level. The secretary of finance himself, and therefore attacked the defence's defenseless employees. Another candidate, hm. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir Hauksdotttótttir, told the show last night at the Wavelula that the Ministry's Department officials had committed a crime in the form of documents and how the treatment of documents here at the General Assembly involved in the restoration of the banking system after a collapse and a bioavailability. Councilmen say they are the result of the claims of the officials. V.E.G. A president should be able to correct a problem. A member of the council is the head of the document. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir dare not directly attack financial advisers during the last term, but accuse officials of dishonesty through media coverts and want to exploit the suspicions that still exist in society to stir dust. I don't think that the conduct of both of them to the head of the Ministry of finance is unacceptable, as well as trivial. It is ministers who are responsible and who there to point spears rather than officials who cannot protect themselves from such slander and attack. I feel like the highest. Minister and minister. A senator should be ashamed, and in other democratic lands men will resign for my sake.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u5	A respectable president. When I was a young girl, I had a savings book in the Lands Bank, East Street. I once dragged myself into town and took out a nice amount of money I no longer remember what I was going to use. When I returned home with the money problem, the bank called and told me that they had made a mistake, that I had received too much money on my part, and that I was asked to come right away and return them. No doubt I did, and immediately I went to the bank and returned the money. This story from my childhood came to my mind when the so - called payoff case came up during the days, which is an amazing mess, and by the wonder that the bank was doing things the way it really is. First, when it comes to the property of the State or State Bank, open and transparent sales procedures must be required. However, it is incomprehensible that the bank should not enter the preparatory agreement because of the possible takeover of Visa Inc. and Visa Europe, which brought the share group billions to their share, is believed to be. It has been observed that when the bank sold its share in Valitor to Arion Bank three weeks later, it was installed as such a notice. Since the land bank is virtually completely owned by the State, when the bank's property is set aside, the managers of the Lands Bank are employed. Why does the bank not ask that money be returned because of the mistakes they made, as in the past? Would it not be the only correct and true conclusion in this matter that the shareholder would simply repay the bank the money that should rightly have been involved in it, thus improving this damage to the public? Finally, I believe it is right for the Bank Board to have an independent investigation of this case as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u6	V.E.G. President. During the past week, members of the North Eastern Quantum received a letter from the pilot of Norlandair and the training director of the Miy Flight, who have settled at the Eagle Island Airport. The content of this letter is that this is of concern because it is likely that Istavia's ideas on the level of reduced service will also lead to less security for users of the ministry. The Arizona airport is the third largest airport in the country after Reykjavík and Keflavík. Despite difficult natural circumstances and extensive air traffic, traffic drivers have been able to maintain a high security factor. The results are based on a radar station located at the side of the runway and are controlled by air traffic control in the air tower. For various reasons, air traffic drivers are headed for six to three. Not until recently we have taken steps to recruit and train new air traffic operators. Their training is known to take time and to have active air traffic directors offer to cover the period with shift planning, as they have actually done so according to my information. V.E.G. President. The policy seems to be that workers who have only a fraction of the education, training, and rights that the air traffic managers have. These workers, for example, do not have the right to provide radar services, so there is no security that that that station will provide when they are on duty. In view of the extensive air traffic traffic around the Akureyri Airport and the fact that it is the center of hospital service, it seems very important to me that this service is not restricted. Don't forget, the airport is an important backup airport for both domestic and international flights 24 hours a day. The importance of serving with a radar guide has been proved by the examples, but there is no time to list them here. There seems to be differences in interpretation of the reduced service. It's not working. You need to be on the same page when discussing matters related to security and important service. I have no doubt that the Minister of the Interior is looking closely at this matter, and I trust that a successful solution will be found.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u7	V.E.G. President. These days work anyway. The Senate welfare committee with the highest housing standards. Secretary of society and housing. Yesterday, the Secret Bank published his review on these important matters. The bank's opinion is that the impact of the bill will be in line with the target for the primary projections, i.e. to meet the cost of renting. The bank believes that the impact of the bill will be in line with their aim to reduce the cost of rentable living by increasing housing and increased supply of housing for smaller tenants. Regarding housing bill, the review of the Federal Bank, by permission of the President, says: ▪ This means that families who enjoy the cost of government participation according to the bill will eventually have to make some smaller amounts of their income for housing, and thus have more provision for other consumer products and savings. According to the Office on General Penitentiary for less tenants, the President's permission states: The bill suggests that large amounts of money will be devoted to building rented houses that will be set aside for the poor and the others mentioned in the bill. Otherwise, this will lead to a reduced rent price on such apartments. This review is in line with what Analytica's consulting firm pointed out in its review when the proposed primary warnings were used for the implementation of the Ministry of Health. The government has placed considerable money on housing for the past few years or since 2008, which includes expenses for camp loans, interest benefits, and expenses to cover the house's prices. The group with the primary products should include and are in progress within the range. The welfare committee has not been improved in housing. So it is important that these bills be fulfilled. All right, everybody. Councilmen need to keep in mind that the listed primary products are linked with collective agreements and part of a collective labour agreements deal with last spring's labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u8	V.E.G. President. Last Thursday evening, I took on behalf of the left movement ◯ green supply in an open discussion about TiSA, the political Party of the North American House. All groups assigned at the General Assembly were invited to participate by sitting on a platform and answering questions. There was a very informative discussion, and it was evident that many people are interested and concerned about these negotiations. One thing that many meeting men were referring to and concerned about is the secrecy that has been over the discussion and exactly what it is that is being negotiated. In fact, Iceland has published all its data officially, but it was confirmed at the meeting that publishing the contract text was not that the party's initiative, i.e. The text was not published until they had been leaked. They want to see that foreign affairs are taken out of the fragility when it comes to political discussions. They are often confined to a foreign legal committee, where representatives are often committed to silence. It is most unfortunate in my opinion and adds to public suspicion, sometimes rightly. However, there is a demand for more community talk on foreign affairs, and not just after the Commission has signed something in advance of the approval of the General Assembly. This showed it. I think this is something we need to consider in the way we carry out our work at the Generals. To say this, I'm especially glad that there will be a special discussion about TiSA later this week at the request. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u9	Mr. President. Calmon Calmon, chairman of the Microcracy Association, said during the days that it was extremely important to strengthen the infrastructure of the health system, education and social systems, among other things, to help control the growth of disability. That's why I'm all about it. On the other hand, here at the council, we are in such a way that we can reach the goal that I truly believe that most of us want to achieve. It appears in many things, including in the hearts of the people. In the years when we were finishing the work of the budget, many older citizens called for an improved budget, and today we have two reports that are unable to make this group especially acceptable. On the one hand, there is a news report about the switch between three persons and 170 million each year in pay. Three employees. This is unbelievable, and it is not surprising that people wonder if we are on the same path as before a crash. Then comes the report that former judges get a 26% rise in their pensions or their surviving mates. This is 44 million each year's basis for 29 people. Hence, if we consider why pensioners receive these terms, judges, or promotions, it is based on the rational support put forward because of the increased stress of the judicial system carried out by today's judges. But why should she go to this special group of pension workers while everyone else in her pension is in line, as well as infirm? The government seems to always have money for special groups that have it better than those who have no memory. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u10	Mr. President. I'm going to stay here on the soft and warm notes today, never miss.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u11	Where's Jón Gunnarsson?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u12	Because Jón Gunnarsson is not in the house. During this week's recent theme conference at the Western American Council, I presented the work of Icelandic amateurs on the protection of the Icelandic sheep colors and the possibility of forming an umbrella on cultural wool work in Western countries as well as in other parts of the North countries. The sheep color society has worked out a presentation on the importance of forming and sticking together to a small - fold factory in this country so that pure wool and diversity of sheep's colors can be preserved and the cultural value of wool. A similar project is available both in Iceland and in Gothland. Among those who have shown interest and understanding are the Female Association of Iceland and Iceland's Home Industrial Organization and are working to achieve comparable organizations in the North countries. As the situation is today, my farmers are paid for the discolouration of wool than whites. By means of a small sprig factory, it is possible for a source label that would result in more value for rare colored fleeces and farmers'reinvigorated financial incentives to increase the number of colored sheep. The demand for clothing that is free of chemicals and produced by biographies Fair frede, or a witness to fair business, is increasing and there is a high potential for the marketing of the successful design of clean, discoloured wool. I believe the development of pure wool is a cultural value that we must stick together to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u13	V.E.G. President. Travel has increased here in recent years, and it is a joy to develop, although some may think that it is enough. But the fact is, about 30% of the country's production comes from the tourist sector. Increased tourism is accompanied by increased pressures on all kinds of factors, some of them seen, and others unseen. Increased pressures on land have already been observed, and governments have responded in part by changing some of the laws on nature protection. There has been increasing effort on the land's roads, mainly affecting road safety, which has included an increase in the number of road accidents for tourists who are not used to the streets with too many single bridges, narrow roads, as well as malarways and so on. Pressures on the road also grew, after the government's coasts were taken off, and heavy transport was moved to the street. It would be in my opinion that in the discussion, if the land's beaches were better equipped to reduce stress. The distribution of tourists through the country would have to be larger, and visitors have almost exclusively been through Chefavík, which is leading people more throughout southwestern. The L.A.L.L.L.L.L.L. Airport is an opportunity to experiment with the spring with the first welcome of six months of tourists, which should distribute the pressure on the land and increase the activity in the east and north. It's gonna be exciting to see how it's doing. The number of passengers has increased, but the larger ports in the country are better able to receive them. However, smaller number of passengers have increased, and there is an excellent experience in developing in the circles of such ships around the country. Is the tourist stream blowing up that could blow up? Ask anyone who doesn't know. Slowly walk through the door of joy, saying somewhere, but surely and cheerfully.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u14	V.E.G. President. If you keep looking, there's a bad problem in the lake for the Akureyri Airport. As evidence of this, two Councilmen of the North East have come before me and brought it up. So Istavia plans to reduce the service of the Akureyri Airport, leaving it with an air traffic control in only information services. This means that the service level and safety of the Akureyri Airport will be much less than ever before. Despite the fact that this does not have any effect on everyone's national TV, it's wrong. At Akureyri Airport, there is a very special situation. It's a mountain circle all around the airport, and we need the service that educated air traffic leaders can provide. There is also need for radar. In view of the fact that international flights are to be initiated, as noted in the Hall of Congress, it is clear that this is an action that cannot be carried out. I have requested that the management of Istavia and the president of Istavia be called to a financial committee, where these matters will be discussed. I know that the Environment and Transport Committee will address this matter. But it is perfectly clear that this will be done in the stitches. In force, there is a service contract between Istavia and the State where full - time service is expected to be on the Akureyri Airport.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u15	President. Wetland's today. The day reminds us of the bad climate impacts of myme, but at the same time it gives us the opportunity to contribute to climate by shoveling back into the ditch because the swamps will be a huge chest to store carbon dioxide. There will be about 35 of you. kilometers, six times the coast of Iceland and nearly twice the diameter of the earth - for those who enjoy such comparison. But I'm not here to do such entertainment. I don't think the people or the people leading up the swamps had any idea of the bad climate effects that came with them. The project was the first step in growing the land, but 80% of the canals ended by just being cut and toying. Only 14% have already been used for more efficient tasks and are expected to not be new to more than 20%. Most important, I want to draw attention to the fact that farmers were given the strength to dig these canals. It seems to me that the canals are paraphrasing about the country's textbooks as to the need for practical action when funding is made. The result must be considered, not just the primary objective, but the side effects that may be more serious than any initial concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u16	V.E.G. President. I'm glad to hear that the government's Bank Management Board is going to investigate the Land Bank's sales at Paying. The person standing here sent the Bank Office a formal address last year asking that the price of the share in Cities be evaluated, while the Bank Office did not trust them to do the business. This is not good for taking this matter and examining it because it is evident that the bank's leading men have become overt on this matter. Initially, the banker said that the bank bankers could not properly have appreciated the share of paying, but he still knew that the price was favorable. Later in the process, he argued that the Contestant Commission had fought very hard on the Lands Bank to sell this thing, but it has been found to be wrong. National bankers now argue that they have not been able to know about a so - called whale dragon, or in English ◯Wendfall, which defended the use of Visa Inc. bought a European section of Visa. Now it is not a criminal act to be ignorant or ill - informed, but the other is that in this case it is expensive to the public in the country. You see, there was evidence early in 2014 in the public news on the anticipated whale drivers. The effects of Visa Europe's sale to Visa Inc were also mentioned in the annual accounts and information on the subject. The lack of knowledge in the Lands Bank suggests that they are not very successful in their work and that they should find something else to do. If, however, they had this information and were to fail to use it, the same conclusion is easy to conclude. The Land Bank Government is to be replaced by this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u17	A respectable president. Recently, the High Commissioner for Sea Routes introduced a new catch rule. Last year, about 230 of you were caught. a ton of old order, but the new one's expecting approximately 177. tons. Most of these reports were quite surprising and have even been reported. A meeting of the employment committee shows that a reduction in the quota is estimated to be 2.5 billion for the Icelandic national set. Then there's about 400 million. K. ... huntingprices that go in the state box. Of course, research is important, it is absolutely necessary for our sustainable hunting and research of the Icelanders and their proposals and should be essential for allowed fishing in my opinion. But the reality is that research expeditions have been reduced. A few years ago, there were four research ships here, but they have been reduced because the Allied don't give much money to the jury. I think it's such a clear example of the endemic piety in our politics of Iceland, unfortunately, that we're always throwing the crown and saving the money. We're supposed to make sure Merro, Iceland's Oceanographic Institute, gets enough money for research so that the suggestions they offer for fishing are based on the rights and most of the data. It doesn't happen here. Even scientists agree with this, as do those who hunt. [[The president calls.]] We need to work on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u18	A respectable president. I recommend here for billing for changes in pharmaceutical law, No. 93/1994, and medical legislation, No. 16/2001. The bill is made up at the Ministry of Health in cooperation with the Marketing Authorisation. The subject of the bill is to allow the Agency to charge a fee for a service it should provide under current legislation. Until now, the funding of their projects has not been guaranteed and have the Department of Health and the Office of the Agency therefore required to withdraw funds elsewhere for the implementation of the tasks below. That arrangement is unacceptable, i.e. that the Agency is obliged to perform its legal function without its assured means of financing. Bank accounts under the bill are aimed at meeting the costs of granting the required services in the above laws. The bill also suggests that the definition of the medical device will be updated according to the European Parliament's Directive and the Council No. 2007/4/EC on the variation to Council Directive No. 90/385/EEC on the harmonisation of Member States on effective, targeted therapeutic instruments, Council Directive No. 93/42/EEC on the medical device and the requirements for the use of sterile materials by 98/8/EC. For the changes, including the definition of software and monitoring, the updates of the above definitions in line with commitments adopted by Iceland according to the EEA Convention Directive. The contents of the bill make it necessary to send it into a technical reporting process, as per the Directive No. 98/34/EC So the bill was sent to the Nite Owl Lab, which is responsible for dealing with the EFTA Monitoring Institute. It was sent to Netothal Lab 20 November last. As indicated in verse 6. track No. 57/2000, the switch to technical rules about goods and telecommunications, should be postponed three months from the date reported on the intended sentence, called the'real period'. EFTA confirmed the welcome of the talks on November 26 of the past. A respectable president. I have now explained the basics of this bill and allow myself to suggest that it be referred to. The welfare committee and to the 2nd. following the discussion taking place here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u19	A respectable president. At the European Parliament in 2015, the highest crisis in Ukraine, the Russian involvement in the conflict, and the state of the European Parliament, the Mediterranean refugee problem, and the fight against terrorism. This year, the Council of Europe, among other things, reasoned on the poor status of refugees and people who are at war in the southeastern Ukraine and the loss of lost people because of the conflicts in the province of Doetsk and Luhansk in Ukraine and in the Crimea. During her meeting in April 2014, the council decided to remove the Russian National Department's voting rights as well as the right to sit in the major councils and participate in the election because of Russian involvement in the conflict. The country's rights were re-evaluated twice in 2015. During a January meeting, it was decided to validate the Russian national stock but that its rights would remain as limited as before. If the Russians were trying to pull back a monster's indentation, investigate human rights violations, dissolve their military forces in Ukraine, and adjust to the pressure of the independent press, the Senate planned to restore Russia's full rights. At the June meeting, an agreement was adopted not to invalidate Russia's national stock but to continue its rights as limited as before. As a conclusion on the matter, the Russian Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament will now have to start a conversation with the Council of Europe, without condition, about their commitment to the Council of Europe, including their policy with neighboring countries. The conclusion emphasizes that the approval of such discussions is the basic rule of the Member States within the European Parliament, which all Member States must follow. As a first step, the Russian National Department should return to the work of the Parliament's surveillance committee and allow the committee's executives to attend the country in connection with their work. Just before the European Parliament's January meeting began last week, a letter received from the Russian Parliament, the Duram, which announced that the Russians would not take any part in the work of the Council of Europe in the current year, and this is the case today. Russia is a member of the Council of Europe, and as such, they should respect its baseline values. The role of the European Parliament is to protect the core ideals of member countries for human rights, democracy and the legal state, as well as for promoting economic and social progress. For this purpose, among other things, the governing body is used by means of a binding international covenant. Controversies and international treatys of the European Council have had widespread impact on the entire continent. The number of covenants of the Council in various aspects of national life is an important measure for nations that are developing democracy and justice, but the measure of the European Council also applies to other international organisations and international organisations. It is the highest human rights covenant in Europe, as is the law of No. 62/1994, and the European Social Convention. Since the end of the Cold War, the European Council has played an important role in supporting democracies in new and Eastern countries, including technical assistance in law and administrative development, as well as election control. The number of members of the Governing Body has increased rapidly since the Berlin Wall fell and is now 47. Montenegro is the newest member of the United States, which broke off national relations with Serbia after a national payment in May 2006 and became a member of the Council of Europe in May 2007. As a result, the European Council's countries form one unbroken geographic entity in the continent, with the exception of White Russia. The Council of Europe represents these 47 Parliaments of the Council of Europe. At the council, 318 agents sit and provide just as many. Unlike the Council of Europe's Ministers, where each country has one vote, a number of delegates will follow the size of a nation. The Council of Europe is a kind of the European Parliament's concept of politics, economics, social issues, human rights, environmental and energy, cultural and educational issues. The importance of the council is primarily that: take the initiative to conduct and direct proposals to the Ministry Committee, monitor the level of international commitments and the need for prompt action in cases of failure there; as a basis for communication and consultation between members of the Member States, thus strengthening democratic culture and building up the bond between national councils. During their April meeting, the European Parliament expressed deep concern for the continued tragedy of refugees and irregular Mediterranean circuits, with huge increases in deaths in the preceding weeks. In conclusion on the matter, the Council, following a comprehensive procedure by strengthening the search and survival of the region, adopted effective joint action to combat the traders and smugglers, revising the Dyspanic order, with the result of sharing responsibility and cost more carefully by saluting refugees for each state based on its population and land production, increasing legal transport to Europe for refugees, increasing human kindness and ensuring access to asylum for people who need international protection. One of the October meetings was discussed and concluded about the need for a new system for the capture of hospices coming to the continent and the challenges facing countries with refugees. In a conclusion on the latter matters, the Council requested that Member States of the European Council do not return to Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey, Greece, Macedonia, Serbia, Hungary, or other countries that carry more weight than other countries and/or where safety of fugitives is not guaranteed by receptions. In a conclusion about the terrorist attacks in Paris, 7,◯9 On January 2015, the European Parliament called on Member States to plan to conduct unscheduled urban population monitoring, to provide law enforcement and security services sufficient funding and training to deal with the growing threat of terrorism, and to ensure that European intelligence services cooperate between countries and countries in the Middle East and the Arab World. Finally, the council called for that member states and neighboring nations to sign and validate the European Council's Convention on Prevention of Terrorism, and in particular the addition to the treaty to terrorists that returned to their homeland. During the April Council of Terrorists, which blame themselves for the activities of Islamic states, Daesh or IIS, the council expressed great concern over the growing situation in Syria, while in 2014 76 thousand people died in connection with the conflict between rebel forces and the government forces there, with the loss of thousands of people unknown. At that time, 11.5 million people have fled the country, of which 4 million refugees and some 7.5 million people live in their own country. The struggles in Syria have led to the fact that the Syrians are now the largest group of refugees aided by the United Nations Refugee Fund. The Congress specifically commended Turkey, Lebanon, Iraq, and Egypt for welcoming about 92% of the refugees. The Parliament requested that the European Parliament's Member States and audience should provide financial support to institutions working in the field of humanitarian activity, providing temporary protection and visas to pursue study and work, to take action against moldrs in the Mediterranean region, to legalize people who had committed war crimes, and to see that women were involved in the peace process in Syria. At the beginning of 2015, Brasseur Brasseur from Luxembourg was re-elected president of the European Parliament to a year alone. At that time, Wojciech Sawicki was re-elected by the Council of the European Parliament until five years, with 140 votes for the 108 votes of the candidate. President of Iceland's Department, Bernu Unnur Konásdótsdóttir, co-founded with the president of the European Parliament, Brasseur Brasareur, 28 October, in Reykjavík, as well as the Feari Proppér and Luneka Anna Sævarsdóttir, along with Unnur Brá, in the trident European Parliamentary Committee for Foreign Affairs. At that meeting, the main source of refugees in Europe was Iceland's response to the situation. The senators informed Brasseur Brasare about the work of the Parapolitic Parliamentary Committee and reviewed foreigners in Iceland. Brasseur Brasareur expressed delight in the way that the Senate Committee was working on the litigation, on the contrary, and in the greatest agreement. In many lands, political groups would be using challenging circumstances to promote hatred speech and prejudice in an effort to expand their lives. A hate speech would be a threat to democracy, but not to refugees. Other issues besides Ukraine's situation, refugee currents, and the threat of terrorism, we find that the Council of Europe concluded freedom of the press and expressed a growing concern for the Senate for the security of journalists and media freedom in Europe and encouraged Member States to expand their work in this area. Mean attacks on the media during the Eastern Ukraine conflict were condemned, calling for the Ukraine and Russia authorities to investigate the fragmentation and legalization of bacteria. In a conclusion on population monitoring, the Council expressed great concern over the United States National Security Commission and their partners in several member states of the European Council, as Edward Snowden, former employee of the U.S. National Security Agency, was informed in June 2013. It led to a large discussion of the lack of adequate legislation and technical protection in this regard. According to the conclusion, the surveillance system that Snowden discovered about the establishment of fundamental human rights at risk, including the right to privacy and opportunity to communicate and information. The Parliament encouraged the European Parliament's Member States and audience to ensure that their legislation allowed only collection and identification of personal information with permission from the individual person or that a court order is based on a reliable suspicion of participation in criminal activities. At the summer meeting of the Council of Europe, some concluded the efficacy of the republics of Azerbaijan and condemned the council's worsening working conditions of civil organizations and human rights, calling for the government to withdraw systematic harassment to those who criticize them and to ensure an effective evaluation by the State prosecutor on such efforts. Then the council called after the Azerbaijan government fully carried out the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, ensured the separation of power, strengthened the Senate's surveillance with the Commission, ensured the independence of courts, and promoted the freedom of the free campaign and the media freedom of choice. In a conclusion on the survival of lost persons because of the battles in Ukraine, the council expressed great concern over the growing number of missing persons because of the conflicts in the province of Doetsk and Luhansk, Ukraine and the Crimea. It is not only soldiers but also citizens, including volunteers who were helping victims of the conflicts. It was suggested that special assistance be provided to the families of lost individuals. It would be the responsibility of the Russian and Ukrainian government and the segregation groups that have authority over the province Donetsk and Luhansk to help families find their loved ones without delay. An outside talk on Mediterranean refugees was called after members urged European leaders to share responsibility for refugees. They should be more united when it comes to accepting refugees in their own lands and supporting the highest responsibility in this regard. Increased cooperation with the European Parliament would be a practical solution to the problem. Sharing responsibility is not only legal duty but also humanitarian. Ban Ki-moon, secretary - general of the United Nations, gave a lecture on the autumn council and assured Europe that it had support for the United Nations when it came to the fight against violent extremeism and an increased hostility against Jews and Muslims and other discrimination. At that time, he stressed the rights of refugees, refugees, and traveling workers, linking them with legal means for transport and family unity. During the fall of the Council of Europe, Thorbjørn Jagland, the director of the Council, met with comments in the question period on the first day of a meeting. I asked Jagland if there would be a discussion between the Council of Europe and Russia regarding the state of the country within the council, and I referred to the U.S. and Russia's president at the United Nations General Assembly on the increase in military intervention by Russia in Syria and the emergency situation in Ukraine. Jagland explained that not only were there conversations between council and Russia but the Council Minister's Committee of the European Council agreed on a number of decisions regarding the illegal incorporation of the Russians to the Crimea and their share in the affairs of East Ukraine. At the same time, the Council of Europe supported Ukraine's efforts to build strong countries that do not thrive. However, the situation in Syria would not be discussed, since the Council of Europe was not authorized to deal with it. It would be the responsibility of the United Nations Security Council to ensure world peace and security and the failure of the Council of Security for Syria. On the other hand, in discussions about the refugee problem in Europe, we considered the need for a new system to receive refugees who come to Europe and the challenges to countries with whom refugees are facing them. The Parliament recommended that the European Union and its Member States shape commitment rules for the receipt and transport of non-concerned persons between Member States in an effort to improve the implementation of the Dublin Protocol and other measures for the capture of refugees. Then the council recommended that specific legal status of the European refugees be prepared, which could be based on that position moving between Member States and enjoying the same rights all of them, or otherwise that refugees under international protection may obtain long - term leave after two years. Regarding the Dublin Protocol, the Council called after the European Union and its Member States immediately a complete review of it. In concluding the challenges facing the countries that refugees are facing, the Parliament recommended that the European Union maintain a consistent policy with refugees, respect human rights, and the state of justice, and avoid focusing on border control and security. The Parliament also requested that the European Council member countries not send their refugees back to Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey, Greece, Macedonia, Serbia or Hungary or other countries that carry more weight on the refugee stream than other countries and/or where the safety of the safe people of the shelterers is not guaranteed by the receptions. In recommendations to the Council of Ministers of the European Parliament, the Council urged the committee to ensure the human rights of refugees in their cooperation with a third state and to support the State in their efforts to increase the protection of refugees and to shape a comprehensive policy for their adaptation. A respectable president. Finally, the largest committee of the European Parliament, the Committee on Political Affairs and Democracy, has decided to meet in Reykjavík in its second September, and is delighted to see what both committees and the European Council have shown great interest in the country. There is also the General Assembly that has invited the Council of Europe to have the meeting of the region, but it has a unique opportunity to promote issues and views that are especially relevant to Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson for an excellent report on the progress of the European Council. This report, as in many of the reports held by members of the Council of Europe in the foreign field for the National Parliament of Iceland, shows that one of the topics that have been held during discussions, and at the European Parliament's meetings, there is, of course, the controversy that has been involved in the intervention of Russia in Ukraine. Hv. A member of the State Department of Foreign Affairs is very well acting on behalf of the Generals. He too has been entrusted with confidential work for his class and is thus thoroughly familiar with it. I want to know what's wrong. A senator can understand this, from the discussions he has participated in at the European Council and from the meetings he has attended, how these tensions and disputes that have stood for Russia and Ukraine will likely develop. We've seen that the Western countries have taken some action. Some feel that they are soft and have little success, but they have at least called upon the nations that have carried out counter measures that have also resulted in difficulties. We have come to realize that some of the big games on the international scene are behind the scenes trying to figure out a solution to the case that could also be used to solve other problems, such as. Syria. I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether he sees any evidence that there is a possibility that this issue will be over the next year or this year some solution that both parties can have at their pleasure and possibly result in relief of mutual action.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for a good question. I believe that the solution to Ukraine will be related to a possible solution to Syria. The Russians come to both of these matters in one way or another, and I think that eventually there will be a connection between them. So, I don't think Monster will ever be a part of Ukraine again. I think there's evidence of that. There's going to be a continuing sort of shrozen conflict, as we saw in Nagorno-Karabakh and in other places, and there's a very small chance that Monsters will be a part of Ukraine again. As for eastern Ukraine, we're talking about Donetsk and Luhansk and the surrounding areas, I'm all optimistic. I believe that the conclusion will ultimately be that this province will receive a measure of self - control in its affairs, remain part of Ukraine, that will be the result, but with a high self - control in certain matters that they stress. I believe it will end that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u22	Mr. President. Shortly after the terrorism in Paris, a report was referred to by the president of France after he had even spoken of it. During conversations with President Pútín of Russia, he said that the mutual forced labor efforts of the Russians and the West would likely stop only when people were happy. I was amazed that the President's comment did not fly anywhere, not at all here in Iceland, and there was not much weather on those abroad. I read from this that men are trying to reach an all - time party in reaching some sort of agreement between Ukraine and the Monsters on the other side, which most likely would be on the way. A senator reported here, i.e. that the Crimean conflict, by permission of a president, such as the rest of the conflict areas we have seen, would be respected by the Russians for meeting laws designed for the eastern part, and they remembered that this is not the case, since it is less important to them and less expensive. But on the other wing, the same agreement would be achieved in what way they and others on the field in Syria would take their action. Now, I'm not necessarily saying that these actions are the best measures in the situation that can be taken to resolve a solution. I think it's a political solution where everyone comes in and it's totally ready for the Sunni to get what they want. This is especially the case that has led to the situation there. But I just wanted to say that I agree. Senator. Does he think that it is possible that we see any such trend during the first half of this year?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again for his input. I agree completely with what he has to say on this matter, as I am, in fact, most of the time when we have attacked the Foreign Affairs Committee on these matters. There are few in this house who have a better understanding of foreign affairs than just why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. It is clear that the pressures we have with the Russians have begun to bite heavily within the country, and everyone knows. It is a very increased pressure on Pútín to try to figure out a solution, because people are naturally experiencing severe inflation, the collapse of the rub, etc. there. Therefore, there is pressure on him within the country, the oil prices have fallen, etc. I believe that there will be a solution in this matter this year. It won't happen in months to come, but hopefully at the end of this year. I have full faith that this solution can be related to a possible solution to Syria. In fact, there are some signs of change in policy. We heard it last night in the news with the British, where people are promoting whether it is not right to begin even the army of Syria. Such speculation will no doubt increase in the next few months because of the terrors that have taken place in the West. So I think the Russians are only in the process now that they want peace in Ukraine and, of course, they also want peace in Syria.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u24	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, chairman of the European Parliament's Council for a fine review of a report on the Council of Europe and the arrival of our Icelandic senators. I also think of reasons to bring a member of the Committee's Committee, Guðjónsdóttir Guðjónnatir, to express thanks for her excellent contribution to the work of the Committee and help with us senators. As noted in the case of the head of the Iceland Department, the main issues discussed in the European Parliament during 2015, the issues of refugees at the Mediterranean Sea, and then after the whole European battle against terrorism were, and as it was possible in their speech, there was also a great deal about informing, as well as surveillance of secret services and law enforcement, and then there was a natural Ukraine deliberating the discussion during the year, which all streets since Russia were deprived of their rights within the European Council to participate in the affairs of the council itself. I think it was a very big mistake, because I voted against these decisions at least twice or whenever it came up for discussion. Sadly, the Council of Europe got distracted by what it is. The European Parliament is a post office for human rights and democracy primarily. The Council of Europe is Pussy Riot's organization against the Russian State. The Council of Europe is the institution against which the countries break 47. As we reduce the rights of Russia or other countries, or remove them from the Council of Europe, we are removing these people from the rights and the opportunity to attend their rights to the European Council and to the institutions of the Council of Europe. It sometimes wants to be forgotten. We have another kind of state block. We have the European Union and we have NATO who are dealing with challenges other than the European Council. But the Council of Europe repeatedly lost out on this role, took sides with governments in Ukraine, and frequently opposed human rights, such as proposals were offered in the European Council and the Council of Europe and agreed that Ukraine would under no circumstances become a relationship. We in the group of the left groups had suggested that we let it lie in part. It would be a matter of decision in Ukraine and a solution to such advice, not ours. Our proposal was made because a stand was taken by those who were in charge of the government in the garden of Punan. This is an example of how the Council of Europe got lost in these areas. Then it is considered that the Ukraine government was able to reach the throne by pushing aside a democratic elected president and snatching control from his hand. Everyone knows that the prints of the Atlantic Community, NATO, U.S.A., and unfortunately the European Union, which has been criticized for being too foreign in this matter, were also marking it. Then we, who followed elections in Ukraine, know how democracy was under pressure. For example, Communist representatives were persecuted, left in a garbage can. That's a pretty clear message, isn't it? When future candidates are attacked and thrown into trash cans. Who would like to volunteer for such a party? That's because it's banned now. This was done by banning the identifying marks of the sect and the ideologies. Of course, those with that ideologies are out of existence. Now it's in the courts, actually, in the Garden. This is the same as we have seen in other countries, for example, in Azerbaijan. I watched elections there at the beginning of November and could not fully sign the position of the surveillance committee because I felt that the team was missing to criticize the problem. It is one thing to think that elections are going on more and more honestly out of the boxes, etc., that we believe was in Ukraine, when we followed the election there. The question, though, is: How do those who promote political talk are criticized by government officials? Are they in prison, as is in Azerbaijan? Is the media tight? This must be considered, this context of the parts we have to look at before calling the election a democratic procedure. Of course we need to do so. And this is the Council of Europe, it's about this. To hear the representatives of the British Empire - they still leaped up after the invasion of Iraq in 2003, but the emotional heat and fanaticism were inexplicable when it came to condemning the Russians for their approach to Ukraine. That example is naturally very complex. Of course, we would like to ask what the people want to do. What do the people at the Crocians want to do? The chairman of the Committee came up with this in his history. It would be complicated, including having to look to the people's will. Of course, we must respect that will. I made a suggestion at the Council of Europe that, in addition to respecting national boundaries, we concluded that they should be viewed as democratic. It's been cut off. The Council of Europe suggested that we honor the democracy. I was very sorry. Those of us who attend these meetings should focus primarily on human rights. But this world is naturally complex. When we say, "We respect your democratic will, is it valid in Nagorno-Karabakah, as the president went away?" In that dispute? Which belonged to the Azerbaijan and Armenians? The democratic will is inaccessible Armenian, unwilling to belong to the Azerbaijan, but still belonged to the land of Azerbaijan. And in the international sense, the Azerbaijan is being broken. The same thing comes up with the Monster Man. If we take Cyprus. Turks were scattered throughout the island at one time; they are now in one specific area. Should the democratic will be respected there? Or do you look to Cyprus as a whole? It's not a simple thing. It's complicated. And I'm not saying it's simple. However, I felt that the simplicity that took place, and it has taken place, in Russia and Ukraine, was very sad, and I often expressed that in a discussion at the council. I believe the Council of Europe is a field for which Iceland should work a great deal. I'm glad the decision has been made to rebuild our office in Strasbourg. We are the only state of 47 who has not had an ambassador's position there. That was a natural consequence of the collapse. There were various areas in which the gathering was taking place. But that was a temporary decision. All these matters, I could and would like to have a lot of stuff, but we have the report. [[The president calls.]] I think it's important that we make it available. It's on the council site. There are some information there. But then it may be known that we are participating in this work to influence the discussion, which I can testify to the efforts of members of the council who have attended this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u25	Mr. President. That's the advantage of what. paritaprevir Agund by Jónasson that he doesn't shake anything from his point of view. I'd like to ask you why. A senator in the context of what he said about the circumstances under which governments can be changed and even formed a new state or state: Is it possible, in his view, for example, that a certain state will use military authority and cut off land and then enter into it and make a vote and the subjects there decide to create an independent state? Is that okay? Is that a way to write? I'm not quite sure about that. I may not mention this in the case of Crime but also in support of his case, Cyprus. If we then get to Crime and Ukraine, it makes me feel like the British. A senator pointed to me, that's coming up because of Iraq, but for all other reasons, for exactly the same reasons that came up from the wind. paritaprevir For years, I was jealous of Jónasson's son because of Iraq. Me and what. A senator fully agreed on Iraq, on the invasion there, and today we see its tragic consequences. But, sire, I cannot help but condemn the Russian case, both in eastern Ukraine and also in Crime, though it may be said otherwise about the Crimean. Is it all right, Mr. President, though, that because there is a vote in Crime and the conclusion is in a certain way involved? Is it not, at least, the minimum requirement for a man like that? þm. The count of Ögmundur or the rest of the members of the Council are there at the election board and will see to it that the vote is legal? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is that not minimal?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u26	V.E.G. President. Yes, that's a minimum requirement. A vote under Vladimír Pútín's heel is not significant, of course not. But I refer to votes that had already been asked in Crime and the Council declarations in the '90s on the independence of the Monsters. They were then threatened with military authority from Kiev, from the Garden of Corinth, by a then president. It's been informed and confirmed. I agree with what. A senator that there's nothing in this subject, and I don't prescribe the methodology he described. But when we look at the empathy that exists in the world between those who have the power to control the border in any situation, I have my doubts. We're going to go from African history, Katanga from the Congo in the 1960's and Biafra from Nigeria. I wonder if Katanga is the size of France and Germany, this small province in Africa who wanted to become independent. I can't remember what the proportions are. No, there is nothing unique in these matters, not at all. Regarding the Iraq war, we agreed that it would have been a prerogative to invade it. Do I condemn Russian behavior? I condemn all mismanagement. I condemn military intervention. I condemn it when men do not ask in a democratic manner. I'd like to ask you what. On the other hand, does he condemn the intervention of Western nations when the democratic elected president was deposed in Ukraine at the beginning of 2014? Examples of why. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Ophphphinsson excommunication of the Ukraine now? [[The president calls.]] Does he condemn this indiscriminately?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u27	Mr. President. According to the last question, why? For example, if I forbid the Communist party in Ukraine and use of its mark, I am absolutely ready to judge, for example, that political movements based on democratic participation are forbidden. I condemn their not being allowed to use the tools and tools used for peaceful purposes. Given that there is a perfectly peaceful purpose, I believe that all ideas and political views should be allowed to compete with the people in their country. I believe that in general the rule is that political movements should not be banned. The question of course. A senator prior to me was just the one I wanted to to swaddle here. I'm not convinced of that as a matter of course. A senator said that the events that took place in Ukraine were primarily through the Western powers. He specifically specified three, the United States, the European Union, and NATO. The European Union is saying that it may well have been involved in the European Union by some kind of lack of observation, lack of experience, as I thought it would be in some European leaders, to promote expectations that were not practical, e.g. that Ukraine could enter the European Union right away. That was never realistic. We know that. But in other respects, the European Union has not fueled anything. NATO has the best I know of no chance of fanning. The other is quite ready for such unique countries, such as the United States and Britain, as well as for others throughout history. It's quite possible, but I don't know it. I'm telling you, it's ridiculous to argue that the events in Ukraine were primarily due to some kind of external pressure. [[The president calls.]] This was obvious to people who broke down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u28	V.E.G. President. The issue in democracies is that the people's will is varied. There were many who wanted to overthrow the democratic elected president of that chair, that's right. We know that it also involved the work of pheasic forces that have been very difficult to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u29	They didn't get anything in elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u30	They didn't get any elections, but their violence in Nazi uniforms and Fascist signs, etc. That's a fact. We also know how the people who were murdered in Odessa were treated when they were burned inside and never thoroughly examined. Then we know it when these movements are banned. People have a wide range of democratic intentions. Our role in the Council of Europe is to protect all of them, always uphold human rights, and always maintain democracy, as I know it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson does, and he did well in his answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u31	President. I am always happy when we have an opportunity to discuss the activities of Iceland's departments in international work. I find very dull how few members of the Parliament participate in these discussions and are present here because the foundation for a great many approved ones who then pass through our national assembly is often at their origin in the worldwide work. I would like to call attention to one thing that I find very wrong with the international work. I have been a member of the international work since my arrival. I didn't understand first, for example, when we're in the agreement and resolutions many of which are very good, why they're not then made into some sort of council case in this country, and I've investigated a considerable number of these matters in other countries. For example, it has been my experience with the International Parliament on the conclusions of many or all, that there are more natural conclusions adopted than at the European Parliament and more international committees we are involved in. But it seems that we in Europe have become so arrogant that we do not feel that we need to make the conclusions that our representatives are that and often very active in making changes or writing them, that councils, while other countries younger than these old European countries, are much more effective in finding ways to do so. I would especially like to draw the attention of those here on some recommendations approved at the European Parliament. First, consider what was agreed on in the second part of a meeting meeting, dated April 24, 2067 and 2045, on mass monitoring, or on the Šmas surveilance. What a fine recommendation! Especially is the conclusion that this recommendation is based on a very good one. Based on this conclusion from the Council of Europe, which I approved, I concluded with the privilege of doing for the International Assembly. Then there are also 2073 recommendations worth considering, for the added protection of the informants. I encourage senators who are interested in the litigators to examine them. There are also a number of conclusions and specific recommendations at the Council of Europe that I find quite exorbitant of the basis for improving our laws. So I would like to challenge members of different international committees to find a channel, one way to find out where we stand on all these recommendations and conclusions, i.e. to request a report from a secretary who will be expected by each person. I think that would be a really good way. What I often experience is that we have done a lot of things in these conclusions, but we can do better, and we need to find out where we are because otherwise these conclusions and international activities are of little value to us, and we don't really do anything if we don't take them any further than we accept them at some foreign meeting. I know that many members of the worldwide work agree with me on this. That's why I decided to do a little experiment and see how it works by requesting a report from the Minister of the Interior from the conclusion of what will be discussed afterwards, about democracy in digital times, and threats against privacy. I want to do so much more because most members of the Parliament do not know of all the wonderful work taking place in the worldwide work. There you are so blessed with the privilege of working with members of the council who may have a chance of specializing themselves more. We have access to experts who are even the best in their field. That's why I think it's important to take it back to the country. I'd like to call attention to other things too. For example, a very detailed conclusion on page 19 is given on the subject of mass monitoring. Seven and a half. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson just walked in on it. It is very enjoyable to see how specific topics are reflected in what is next to us, which is then the Norwegian team, then the European Union, and then international cooperation, and even the NATO community. I think we should find a way where we can take and see what it is that we may be completely parapolitic to work abroad to call for something to be done with it, whether we are going to make common requests for reports or controversies from what we are participating in. I think that would be a good thing for everyone. This has been a real challenge in this work at the European Parliament and in other ways the world's problems are faced. It may be rooted in a major change in the weather and a decrease in access to resources, both due to a wide range of means used for the resources, such as The oil that many of those who know will simply call a currency war. Sadly, no matter what war it is, the victims are less than those who cannot bear the hand of their heads. Sadly, it is a very short period of time that you get in these discussions and usually only once a year. That is why I would have loved to see more members of them, for in this worldwide work, members of the Parliament are truly more experienced. Icelanders have been very diligent in applying themselves, as the report shows, and I want to commend our representatives in the European Parliament's Council of Iceland for their work and encourage those who monitor the activities of the Generals to study these reports, since they are very important to feel that they may not be very smoothly written for the public. Visiting the European Parliament provides these conclusions. We, the National Assembly of the Icelands, wish to be more diligent in making these conclusions in English so that we can discuss them more fully in our general Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u32	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss this report from the European Parliament by 2015, which I have. First, I'd like to thank my associates who are sitting there for a good cooperation, but especially my backup, Brudier son of Níelsson, who in most cases has attended a meeting during my recent years. But there is one trip I made as a member of the European Parliament during this year's work that is not mentioned in the report, since it was part of an external program. There was a visit to a refugee camp in Turkey, where I had the opportunity to study the situation there in consultation and cooperation with the Turkish Council of Europe. On the same trip, I accompanied the commission to visit Lebanon, then in cooperation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and then we finished our trip to Sicily, and this was done in cooperation with the Italian Council of Europe. As noted in the prehistory debate of the head of Iceland, refugee affairs were, in fact, the largest topic at the council's meetings for this year's work, and it is obvious that they have a large task to do. It was mainly at these meetings at the Council of Europe that I found worried especially, i.e. The Turkish senators, of what should come. That was before the problem grew much over the summer. In recent years the Turkish Parliamenters at the Council of Europe have been diligent in pointing out to members of other European countries that if nothing had to be done, the results would be that people are increasingly streaming to Europe. It all came together during the day. Europe and we fell asleep on guard and did not act immediately. But what is learned, and in reality, after this trip, it is a plea, both to the Syrian refugees that I had the opportunity to converse with, as well as to all the employees of the relief organizations we met on our journeys, to assist in the neighboring countries of Syria. It was number one for everyone interviewed. It might be likened to saying that if we Icelanders are facing a natural problem and had to flee our home temporarily, we would probably want to go to our neighboring countries rather than go far, and try to wait for the disaster to come back as soon as possible. That's exactly what Syrian refugees wish for, to get back home. That's what most people want. Today, however, people have been in the neighboring regions of Syria for four years, some longer, perhaps first fleeing Syria and then in the neighboring lands of Syria, and people have lost hope. This is evident in a way that people are willing to sacrifice their lives on small, leak boats in the Mediterranean Sea rather than remain hopeless in the neighboring lands of Syria. There are three things we can do to help: First, to help more in the neighboring countries of Syria, to welcome more food supplies from Syria and neighboring Syria, and to speak for peace talks and solutions in these matters. Madam President. I also want to discuss the worldwide work here at the council. I believe there is a full need for the council to take it all together for review and discussion. What do we want out of this? In what way do we put the matter? What's going to happen to all this? I'm so lucky to be the president of the Western Council of Iceland. We in the Western Council have a special position. We have a very strong weapon. The Western Council is the cooperation of members of the Parliament from Iceland, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands. After meeting together, we draw conclusions, and when we return to our own country, we make the decision in the form of the council arrangement. Hence, in the three Parliaments, the same synopsis is approved at the councils of the three countries. There, governments are challenged to comply with certain issues. So all our work finds its way directly to the Hall of Congress, and usually our suggestions are accepted, allowing them to come to the board of stewards as special tasks to be followed. So when I go to a meeting in a foreign country where you put forth a lot of work to get some conclusion, I sometimes feel a little disappointed that the matter will not go on. I have had the opportunity to sit at the discovery of the North American dimension, which is some form of cooperation between the European Union, the Norwegian states, Russia, and the Western Council. This meeting always leads to a conclusion. I was so lucky to be in charge of that work last year. The meeting was held in Iceland, where we included a lot of emphasis on equality and other very important subjects. It took a lot of time, a lot of conviction to get everyone to the same table. The Russians may have been the hardest, but we succeeded. But what happens to that work? There won't be anything about her. It will only be a memory to us who were at the meeting, especially those who served on the committee that produced the conclusion. But this does not formally enter anyone's table for some discussion or continued work. The same is true of the Arctic. Every two years a large conference is held in which members of the northern states meet, review the situation, and make such conclusions. I don't know what they're looking at. It was only discussed with the Western Institute of Themes that was held this weekend in Grindavik, where we were able to ask representatives of the State Ministry of State on this particular resolution in the Norwegian dimension. The Ministry official promised that when he arrived for work on Monday, he would look for this conclusion and see if it had hung up somewhere in the Ministry. But this just tells us that we need to try to get things straight. We could use the Western model as some kind of model for what we can do. I don't know how well the government would have it, but I promise you, we senators who put us through this work would be very happy to move the discussion into the General Hall in some formal and permanent way. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] The message of the conference this weekend was democracy in the North, and particularly in the Western area. We had the option of having a very capable lecturer. One such person is Savic Zlatko, a political professor at the University of Ljublia, Slovenia, who stressed the involvement of members in the foreign politics. When I came in here as a new senator, I had no interest in wasting my time in foreign affairs. It didn't bring me anything in my ballot bitch, it didn't bring much to my voters, I thought at the time, and I kind of thought it was just a waste of public money. As you grow into a job and see that Iceland isn't an island and things may have to do with you, human rights and so forth, you'll learn that it's important. We're supposed to be interested in foreign affairs. We can't afford not to. There is so much that we can learn from others and from giving. Therefore, I think it is important that we who serve on the World Committee of the Generals take up a discussion about the changes in practices and some form of the Committee on the Directorates of the Council on where we would like to see the work in the future and how we will make the most of the money we do in this work. To me, it's not like going to meetings and working at a lot of conclusions that just happen when they don't go anywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u33	President. Thank you. A senator very much for her speech. It's good to feel that you're not the only one who wants to do something to change this kind of thing here. I wanted to ask the senator if you should simply try to get members of the international team together as soon as possible and that we would even propose a suggestion to the head of the Generals on what we would be wise to do. [[Up front.]] I've just thought it would be good to use the Western model, as well as make use of it, to call for reports about what the situation is and then work out conclusions to reach the level of what you're going to agree with. But there is one thing that I have stayed behind, and it is that sometimes it is very difficult to get these conclusions translated into Icelandic. I've had to fight to get my own conclusions translated, which I worked on at the International Parliamentary Union. I'd like to ask the senator -- why. A senator has been a little longer than I am at the council - whether it's important to have this in Icelandic and whether it would be a good idea to try to have a special division that will handle it, for example, in the filing department.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u34	V.E.G. President. In that case I know best, which is the Western Council, the language is a Danish language. When we return from our annual meeting with the Western Council, we need to translate conclusions from Danish into English. There is no one here at the council who has expertise in the task but has been tried to save it. This year we had relatively powerful suggestions, which I will recommend below, which is extremely difficult to say. Translations need to be used carefully. I insisted on getting a translator to do this and received no, but after jap, jam, and fed, we were doing well. I thank Guðjónsdóttir Ása, the secretary of the Western Council, especially for standing with me in all this stuff. Although we're fine in Danish, it's boring to have all this work done and then come out with words that my 12 - year - old child school allows me to write down. That's not really nice. If we're gonna be serious about this, we're gonna have to be professional too. That's what I demand, and that's one of the things we really need to talk to the head of the council. I agree with that. A senator that we have a responsibility to direct this worldwide work here and to meet for the next few days, as we may have discussed informally in the tunnel, and to write a letter to the presiding committee. It may take a long time to reverse changes. We may not be able to do so just in the next few weeks, but we can take our first steps at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u35	President. What's so great about the international work is that you're working regardless of the class lines. You're often working with people who are totally involved in politics, but you get to work on making adjustments to these major groups, which are then so important when they filter in here, transpolental. I have to say, any of the greatest pleasure I have ever had from work that a senator is having the opportunity to work with people regardless of where they come from, regardless of political groups. You don't even ask about it. It is never discussed, for example, in the International Parliamentary Union. They just talk about countries. I love to hear the harmony I have found today, and, of course, we have the members of this worldwide work, talking in the tunnel. Now I sense that we are going into operations that is fantastic. Of course, one thing we must stress is the translation. It's also really exhausting. A man may have worked hard on something. Then you come home, and you're fighting windmills to get simple pieces of brands that cost little at all the cost of that battery. We're going to have to go over this whole thing. I look forward to seeing what comes out of this cooperation with our senators on the contrary to a group of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u36	V.E.G. President. It's been a great discussion. I look forward to the future, and I want to draw attention to what was presented in the SE Council of Iceland that there is work there to further develop a definition of where the conclusions should be made, how to work with them, etc. We have already begun to push this ball into the process of improving our work. It is always critical that when politicians are abroad, they feel that there is no need for them to participate in this work in some cases. It is simply because we are not good enough to know what this is, what it is, and how it works. I want to see results from what we're doing. I've just seen a meeting that maybe doesn't produce tremendous results. Then the discussion begins immediately: Was this needed, was it needed a trip, or was it just so called, with the permission of a president, a лliamentary tourism? I'm not interested in having a job like that. There is no such thing as history. We're supposed to be doing something intelligent.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u37	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The members of Birgitta Jónsdóttir's daughter and Unnur Brá Consley's Konráðsdóttir for their contributions. I couldn't agree more with what they've said about this case, I have to say right now. I have often thought about all the hard work I've done in the Council of Europe, and we are not the only ones to worry about this. I hear it from members of other countries too, most of the country. The European Parliament's president has talked about this problem of not implementing any conclusions made in his country. Much of this goes up to the Ministry, but it won't work any further, it'll just end up in a drawer there. True, in Europe, for example in the Council of Europe, the conclusion that every year there are probably 100 to 150, and a good part of this conclusion may not apply to us directly; these are conclusions that are being drawn to certain countries where reform is being demanded and that are usually taken very seriously in those countries. Then there's another part of the conclusion that has something to do with us. For example, there are conclusions related to large categories of languages that Piranha is interested in, etc., and human rights in general. These are matters we have to start filming. I don't have a direct question, but I'm celebrating this discussion. Thank you. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Brá very much for bringing this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u38	V.E.G. President. I had the opportunity of meeting with Brasseur Brasareur, who leads the Council of Europe and discussed these matters with her. I was a little forthright about the choice of words, but it was still all right. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson and I, of the European Parliament's Iceland Department, may be able to establish guidelines to settle down yearly over the conclusions of the Council and try to pick them out. Of course, we can't set out here a hundred and some council proposal on the basis of the conclusion of the Council of Europe, but we can choose who we believe to be here for discussion. There's one more problem, it's getting time here at the council to recommend these conclusions. It's not easy. I say here today, for three Parliamentary resolutions from the Western Council, which were proposed in the fall. These are the proposals of the International Committee of the Parliament, where members of all classes sit outside the Pirata. There are six members of Congress, so there are six members of this committee. And where are we put in the order? We are put in line by members of Congress, political parties on the matter of Congress. There we are in the honor order of the General Overseership of the Generals. That's what I strongly criticize and I'm doing now just officially for the first time, but it needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u39	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u40	Now that we have only a relatively short period of time left for the council, and our suggestions are heavy and varied, I am very concerned that they simply can't get through here while our members, the members of the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland, are well along with all their affairs. This is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u41	A respectable president. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, of course, at the General Assembly, there are a number of things to do with the work ethic. I think our next step is inevitable if we sit down. If we, as members of these international committees, are setting some goal in these matters, we will meet with a representative of the council and try to achieve what we believe is necessary for these classes and these cases to receive the dignity they deserve here at the council. I welcome this initiative by two senators who have appeared before me with their speeches, however. Senators Birgitta Jónsdóttir and Unnur Konráðsdóttir Consleyddóttir. I think we should get on with this as soon as possible because time is really fast. If we're going to get these things through as fast as possible. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir mentioned here having to work very fast on this, or they'll just be left over.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u42	Madam President. I heard about the moment I was in my chair that a proposal was made here from the Hall of Congress that men like me should have double speech lessons. I am prepared to examine that proposal with zeal. I come mostly to thank them. Councilmen here who have spoken and used this part of the program to comment on how we can communicate with the council, and even after events even as representatives of the General Assembly, suggestions that we have either participated in or accept. I agree completely with the people coming here and speaking in the very first place that the council sees to it that the key releases are translated and submitted to the council or come to members of the council; second, they tore off. Senator Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdóttir and Birgitta Jónsdóttir needed that even in some cases they also be placed before the council as a sort of policy. Third, I want to add that I believe that there is basically a black minimum that such suggestions are discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee. Now, at times, when proposals are adopted at large international conventions, where a number of representatives of many local councils meet, the conclusion may be contrary to what is wanting more than that. Therefore, I believe that the first step in handling such a procedure is to discuss it in the Foreign Affairs Committee, and then after events evaluate whether it is in harmony with the existing administrative policies or, in accordance with the importance of the matter, to introduce it in a proposal to the council. Hv. paritaprevir Unnur Brá's Konráðsdóttir rightly discussed the pain that comes from trying to bring matters into consideration from the Western Council. In recent years, the Western Council has grown substantially in weight and importance and, most important, by the route. Chairman of Unnur of Brá's Konráðsdóttir. But sir faithful, if it is difficult to get matters organized from the whole counsel of three nations, what about us losers, the senators who are in this room with perhaps six, seven cases, even years without ever having any room to discuss it? I've got here with a bang. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konás Konráðsdóttir and many other council members gave me a case that took me half a summer to work on cooperation with Greenland. There are two summers from the day I finished that suggestion and had some members of the council help. It's never been discussed. Although I may expect to sit here for another four or eight years, I do not know if there is a time to reach that point. But seriously, without fun, it's prerogative. I sometimes say that this council is a reward for lazy people. Those who work hard to write a lot of Congress matters - such as the one standing here as a monopoly of monopoly and creativity still hang out in this work - are not being rewarded for it, not even the little ones to be able to see their own suggestions discussed, so that you do not ask them to be accepted. What is involved in international work? Great insight into the course of international affairs. For people with a keen interest, such as me, in foreign affairs, it gives you at least a chance to gain a lot of knowledge about listening and talking to people who come directly from a series of events, sometimes from war. This is important. But there is something else that it gives to the International Assembly of Iceland. In case of a moment. Senators review the history of foreign ministers for the last two decades, and I'm afraid they're all raised by the international Parliament. I'm going to allow me to predict that any foreign ministers who may be taking over in the next few years may be sitting here in the audience, i.e. The people who are discussing these matters. Just so that people do not lose sight of the fact that this is of great value in creating senators who can do the work of speaking and making a deal for the people of Iceland. In some respects, such as the committee's committee, a school in the field of trade where men are working. It was now a form. On the subject discussed here, I wanted to have a big case. Why? Because there are rare occasions when a discussion of the most urgent international issues is discussed here. Things that are very important to us. The reports that have been delivered today and that may be moved in the following week, all signaled that it is the same language that has been at the top of our discussion at the top of every section of our discussion, i.e. The issue related to Ukraine and Syria on the other hand. And they're related. Underneath it is a thread. It has been shown that these are matters of enormous interest for the Icelanders. Yet, it is not really discussed here at the High Council, much as it is today. Because this is not a matter of foreign interest. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson gave a wealth of good talks on the activities of the European Council. I myself spent years in the Council of Europe, and I know how much shoeing it gives you, a lot of insight into the rights struggle in countries that have not reached as far as ours. The subsequent discussions with other members of Parliament show the number of events surrounding the European Council on Human Rights. There are a few things I wanted to kill on. For example, I would have liked to have a place to say. paritaprevir Aggmme Jónasson of Crom. I disagree basically with him on what is permitted and what is not permitted. Just so I say it on my behalf and on my party, I completely agree with those who say they must respond to the fact that a large country such as Russia cross the border, suspenses until riots and riots like they are even today going to be in the East Ukraine, and howling even skirm inside a nation's borders. Who are the primary ones to break down their feet and keep on guard? They're little nations. Who among the smallest nations should insist that international law be respected? Of course, those who, like Iceland, don't have an army to defend themselves. Our defense is in international agreements, international agreements. That's where we've got our greatest sovereignty. Especially because we have little opportunity to defend ourselves. It is very important that the senators understand and understand. We must always take our place with small nations that are being oppressed by some form of military force or other forms of oppression. This is important. Even if sacrifice requires short - term interest, it must be appreciated in the light of a long story, both backwards and even when people look into the past. We must always take our place on this mountain. About the way we have participated in those culminating in Russia. I have not chosen to bring in my main suspicions of that matter, but I make it clear: It's a major foreign matter and should have been discussed at the foreign committee first, just so it's clear. I think it might have been different. That doesn't change the fact that I'd never landed on that side any other way, so it's totally clear. In the field I've been working, people have been discussing whether these actions have yielded anything. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson said they had changed a lot of things. He pointed to the weakness of the bus, some of the economic consequences of the case. Before long, I questioned that very much. I can agree that the evidence finally suggests that it had an impact on it. Above all, though, these are the decisions made by the men who make oil prices in Saudi Arabia. I believe that this had greater meaning as a symbolic union with the West. Then there's always a question about how far a person should go to rule out wrongdoers. Hv. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson's son raised me in a remarkable way to reflect here on one of the subjects I had never thought of. I thought it was okay when the Board of Directors at NATO turned Russia out. I understood this well when the Council of Europe took a similar stand. The concentration of Jónasson pointed out that by dismissing the Russians from the Council of Europe, people in Russia are being deprived of the right to shoot things, when they feel oppressed by Russia's government, to the Council of Europe. It's an amazing approach. Either way. I quote that this morning, at the Coastal Guard of the North Pole, Russia was dismissed from its involvement under the front of Canada. But when the United States succeeded, they were reinstated. I'm going to think it's always best to try to have a state on the table and deal with them. So I come to the other matter in three seconds: the kingdom of Syria will never be solved by military force. It'll only be resolved by contracts. But that's where we need the Russian power. We need it through the United States and Iran. [[The president calls.]] Icelandic senators are always expected to put their efforts to achieve treaties, peaceful solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u43	President. I appreciate your speech. Hv. The senator came on many different surfaces. I cut by two things in particular. One is, and I quite agree. The senator of the matter, that we need to make room and make room for the conclusions that we are applying to. Of course, many conclusions are that they are not directed to us, but there are still a red thread in many of the conclusions throughout the worldwide work. Then there are specific issues that are very much related to our future and also to the present, such as those of the Arctic, which I find strange that there is no waterway for the council. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he knows what this is like among other nations. I have put much emphasis on trying to figure it out, and it seems so fun that at the next meeting of the International Parliamentary Association, special emphasis will be placed on finding ways and considering how other countries conduct their affairs, which we can use as a role model. There is much discussion about these international issues. I wanted to see if there was anything I could do. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson, with her great experience in foreign service, might give some perspective on how he felt it would be best to adjust our affairs in this regard. Then, of course, I expect it to be. A senator will be included in the anti - political group that fights that foreign glory is more important and stronger during the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u44	What I didn't come up with in my speech earlier when I was discussing how to handle such agreements that we might be able to bring home in the group was as follows: I believe that, except for this to come to the State Department hearing, the incident should follow the possibility of some sort of opinion of the committee to which the chairman of committees would move and after the events of one from the memory if there is a difference of such matters, if they are thought to be so that the importance of the viewpoint should come to the council. I have also often thought that perhaps it would be wise to give such matters a short time to talk about them. I'm not even asking for a free discussion, but maybe two members of the board and a political stand could come to their position in two minutes on this subject. But if it was a big deal, let's say, for example. the issues presented here, Russia and Ukraine, I believe that if more part of the State Department considers such a matter to be relevant for a general discussion, there should be time for such. I think it would be very convenient and could have helped with some of the things I've found awkward during this discussion. That's what it's all about. With regard to the actual previous question, why? Since this is the case with members of Parliament, it is the same as many members of Congress complain about. It's not a channel at the council. Why? Because the councils are old, sit on old ground, and have become an old - fashioned channel, but the international issues have become so much more extensive and urgent in the interests of the nations. This has somehow not adapted to each other. However, many council members are appointed under Foreign Affairs Committees, where special cases are arranged, for example, in some parts of the north. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u45	President. Thanks for the answer. I think I'd like to go even further. I think it's very important. For example, I find a very strange arrangement that once a year we are discussing the major issues at a meeting that are involved in the worldwide work. It would be very fun and useful if to form a foreign minister would be here and be involved in the discussions with us, especially when it comes to direct foreign political affairs, which foreign ministers often face in Iceland. I'm not going to go into too technical situations on how we should behave here, but there's one thing I wanted to ask why. A senator's concern is that we should always stand as a small nation with other little nations. I'd like to ask the highest. Former Secretary of Foreign Affairs and what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's pride is whether he agrees with me that we should really take advantage of the position we are in regarding a two - side business deal with China to discuss the violations of human rights that take place against the Tibetan nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u46	Madam President. I explained earlier that the reason the general European Parliament did not find a suitable route for the content and conclusions and findings that will occur at international conventions and councils on which their representatives are on is that the council is the nature of old institutions. But international affairs have overshadowed everything else as the world's business and trade have improved, and interests have become more associated with foreign affairs. This has not been able to adapt to each other. As a result, the situation is bad. A senator said that we will take one day an intense discussion of foreign affairs, and so is the case. Yes, it was at the height of Europe's affairs. I'll take the example of the northern routes. In the last seven, eight years, they have become real interests and interests of the council, where are they? They're with the State Department. Should they be somewhere else? Should they be with the Environment Committee? We rarely discuss them here for special reasons. It must be a channel so that the council can discuss certain matters. It is not necessarily the initiative of the Commission but the foreign committee. For example, I believe that it would be a good idea to find out that a foreign - business committee could manage it to take up a discussion about a global rescue center because it is up and there are political questions that need to be answered about national participation, such as Russians. I'm calling TSA. There's a lot of debate about that. Why don't we talk about it here? We won't. The thing of course. For example, a senator mentioned Tibet, as well as other such matters, Chinese and nonhuman rights violations of human rights, feels that it should be a case that would be discussed in a foreign committee and that if it feels that there is a cause for this, e.g. in connection with a particular possibility that we have due to a side agreement on the free trade agreements with China, it should be under the authority of the Foreign Affairs Committee to discuss in general non-announced discussions, which often carry the nests of action and are not subject to the issue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u47	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u48	V.E.G. President. I have sat here observing these discussions on the reports of the International Committees of the Parliament. For someone who does not sit on certain committees to listen and observe, to gain insight into what is happening. I must say, I wholeheartedly agree with what happened. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson in his speech earlier said that this is not a matter of foreign interest. In fact, I have been surprised at how little foreign affairs are discussed at the council just because they have become so important to us. I think their importance will only increase in the future for so many things. We have been referred to as the Arctic, the refugee situation involved, the climate change. These are all the matters that come into foreign affairs as well. So I think it's really important that we discuss these matters. I found this to be an interesting way of life. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphphénsson suggested that the Foreign Affairs Department get involved and work with them somehow. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Is it not vital that the matter be brought to the council? It is often said that cases, especially those from the European Commission, have been introduced to the State Department. [[The president calls.]] That's enough, considering why. A senator? Don't you just need to take the matter further and discuss it at a Senate Hall, but do you not just introduce it to members of a foreign committee who are often committed to what is presented there? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u49	I think it would be desirable for a foreign press committee to decide for themselves what subjects were of that nature that they needed to be discussed here. I've mentioned TiSA, for example. It is a typical case in which there are warm feelings and strong opinions and should be discussed in this field, but it is hardly discussed with the State Department, though it has already happened. It's just a matter of the north. It's a matter of fact, it's a matter of fact. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta's Jónsdóttir, Tibetan, was named. A number of other matters I could mention, but the first stop should be a foreign matter committee. She should have authority of some kind so that she can request that the meeting be held as a subject that she appreciates the importance of having the right to discuss it. It would likely be a fixed time frame, so it was clear that this was not being used to destroy the council's time. But this is very necessary. I think it would have been important in other matters to have a discussion to inform members of the council. So I come back to Russia and Ukraine and the penalties taken to them are, of course, an example of a case that should have come right over here and gone over, over the possibility that we might take part in it, go over the possibility of taking a part with certain conditions that would have been possible, or, as has actually come from both political wings that covered over the World Council, discuss whether we should stand by and not participate. That's a perfectly valid opinion, even though I don't have it. But it would have been necessary to have them all reasoned in the beginning, and that would have helped the highest. Minister to make a deliberate decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u50	Madam President. I think it's a pretty good example as hell. A senator took care of the Russian trade pressure because we now have a decision without actually being discussed and so far away from the fact that all surfaces have been pondered on this matter, e.g. For example, consider the interests of fish immigrants. I think we could have avoided a lot of controversy in Icelandic society if we'd taken this up first. There's another thing I'd like to talk to you about. Senator, it's a technical peace of mind that I like to call as I think I have managed to learn, but it's already the job or the highest level. Ministers sign agreements in foreign countries with what is called a government decree for approval of the Generals. V.E.G. Minister will sign abroad, and they will be discussed at the General Assembly. Admittedly, the minister's decision can be brought to a conclusion, but that is always so that part of the term is faced by the Council. It is always harder to attend when the discussion is addressed. So I want to ask you why. A senator would see whether he felt that this discussion would be taken up at the Senate Hall before then, so to speak. The minister out, then the form could be handled at the Senate Hall and confirmed the signature. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u51	Madam President. Yeah. I think so. I'll think about it before then. A senator, who did not sit here during the last term, that when I was a minister of foreign affairs and came to the council with a case that had a administrative notice, it was natural only EEA case, but almost always a case that was unlikely to make any gossip or strife. However, there were issues requiring adjustment of the law. In some cases I had doubts myself that the case would last, for in every case it was not clear. It was the expeditation of power, the mention of flying fines and other matters, but all taken together seemed to me to have come out of the gray area authorized by the management ship. Then I brought them to the General Assembly and discussed earlier. They were presented only in one case in which there was a rapid treatment due to a regulations concerning trade involving climateovate that had to be corrected for certain things. These matters were almost always done before I went out, or I allowed my officials to sign them. That's the way it should be. Perhaps I can give a more recent example of this investment bank in Asia, which obviously became a controversy over, unexpected, and cut off the bond between government and government opposition. It would be preferable that it had been settled before. For other contracts, such as the TiSA deal, the Minister has the perfect license to sign. He doesn't have to bring it to the Generals. But you can say the highest. Minister to compliment him, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, that he has decided to have the council discuss it and bring the contract in the form of a synonym. It takes into account the established democracy. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps such hard work should be taken away, with better rules on it. - But the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u52	President. I will recommend this report as a result of the absence of the Chairman of the Icelandic Council of the International Parliament. I have to say first that the International Parliamentary Union is one of the most awesome scenarios I have opportunity to work on. There are 166 countries, along with a large number of other representatives, such as those from human rights organizations and others. They gather twice a year and deal extensively with important issues. It is truly wonderful to meet members of Congress from lands that you had almost never heard of and can cooperate with them on things you would never have thought you could have a similar perspective, it is incredibly precious to have the opportunity to deepen your knowledge of our great world. I'm only going to review the work of the Committee during the previous year. Of the many and varied issues discussed at the International Parliament's International Assembly, IPU, in 2015, there are several things that the Iceland Department claims to stand up in view of the objectives of the Union, which are working toward peace and cooperation among nations, and trust in democracy and the National Assembly. First, there are the cases of immigrants and refugees who were very discussed during the Fall Summit of IPU. The importance of moral and economic factors was emphasized for fairer and humanitarian policies regarding immigrants and refugees. Among other things, support was given to Syrian refugees and neighboring nations who receive hundreds of thousands of refugees from the land. At the same time, the role of IPU, National Parliaments, International Society, and regional institutions was concluded to provide the necessary protection and urgent support for refugees due to war conditions, national conflicts and social conditions, under the principles of international human rights law and moral principles. To ensure protection and support for the refugees of the world, national and international organizations were designed to be activated. Then democracy was discussed and concluded in a digital world and threats to privacy. Birgitta Jónsdóttir was the second of the two authors of the resolution, first the Icelandic senators to get a resolution by the IPU. The resolution, which was adopted by the autumn Parliament, included emphasis on all national legislation, privacy and personal data based on the principles of legitimateity, transparency, moderateness, necessity, and justice, and was encouraged by the Congress to pay attention to the national laws and practices of the states and/or to be employed by their agencies to ensure that they respect international laws and rights, especially on the right to privacy of privacy, and on the National Congress to ensure that, by making sure, these revisions of public and private companies will not be forced to work with governments that they impair human rights of business rights, including those on the basis of international rights for national rights of human rights. There was also a debate over the role of Congress on combating terrorist organizations, such as Daesh/ISIS and Boko Haram against citizens, especially women and girls. In discussions about the disaster arrangement, it was emphasized that terrorism should not be associated with religion, nationality, or social groups. No matter what the cause, any kind of terrorism should be viewed as a crime and is always unjust, no matter what the cause may be. At the spring Council of IPU, the UN's new objective of sustainable development was discussed, in which representatives of the Generals included emphasis on the education and equality of the sex as the basis for successful induction and implementation of their goals. They said that it would be necessary to emphasize how the advancement of new goals, with government responsibilities as a guide and emphasis on the human aspect of the Kingdom. Other major issues discussed at the IPU Parliaments in 2015 can be mentioned as a military force on the Internet, how to ensure protection from the destruction and decay of human civilizations, international law on state sovereignty, and internal indifference. There is also the important work IPU in promoting democracy, but many of the EU Member States are not democratically elected, and some do not carry out their own legal work. As an example of this activity in 2015, there is a two - day meeting in connection with the United Nations Climate Conference that was held in Paris and a regional seminar on the new UN Developmental objectives for the Eastern European Parliament. Furthermore, the International Parliamentary Union publishes handbooks and reports for members of the Parliament to help them influence different language groups. In 2015, some reports on relief measures and treatments for HIV were published. I may have wanted some, because it is not at all enough time to review the entire report, although it is now not too long, to review the 132th Council of IPU held in Hanoi from March 28 to April 1. For the sake of the U.S. Senate Committee of the United States, President Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, Ásmundur Arna Bang and Vice President Birgitta Jónsdóttir, as well as President of the United States. The main issues on the program were how to contribute to a new system of water management in the world, international law in relation to national sovereignty, national and human rights, and privacy in the 21st century and the future democracy. There was then a general debate over the UN's new goal of sustainable development, as well as the meeting of women. Furthermore, an external talk on the role of national conventions in combating terrorist organizations, such as ISIS and Boko Haram, was held against citizens. I was so fortunate, given the intervention of the U.S. government on my privacy in connection with the volunteer work I worked for WikiLeaks in 2009 and early 2010, that my case was given a special discussion and coverage of the IPU Human Rights Committee. This committee is remarkable. I probably never would have found out that it really existed because my case was being handled there. This is the only approved international committee to assist members of the Parliament in need. You see, in many lands, members of Congress simply disappear. They are inhibited or imprisoned, even tortured. I have to say, as far as I've met the International Parliamentary Union, IPU is more important to me, this scene is more important. It has been available since 1889, and it has been growing, and it is reaching countries that have virtually no democracy; it has been able to communicate directly with representatives of those states and even try to develop the inspirera of the young generation that comes, since the special division of young senators has been established in the International Congress, which is usually met before the big council begins - there is an incredibly extensive fermentation and a lot of discussion of ways to increase democracy, for example. The most active countries there are many countries from Africa that you have not had the opportunity to study well enough. It gives you high hopes when you have the opportunity to discuss large things, such as the right to access water, much of it is directly subject to the basics of democracy, and whether it is the correct route for many of those countries. What's been worrying is that there's a certain geopolitic thing that I don't like and I'll offer some kind of advice on how to shake it up a little bit. I had the opportunity to write a resolution for the International Assembly, which was based on my concerns as well as on a lot of others after listening to the first interview at Edward Snowden, when he was in Hong Kong. There he provided three ways to secure privacy, one would be to promote better legalization at home, another to ensure international release and cooperation, and the third way would be encryption. I was delighted when I proposed and wished to make a resolution for the International Parliamentary Union, for democracy in a digital world, and for a threat to privacy, that the IPU had to do with that wish. That was not necessarily easy. It is usually taken for just one conclusion at each assembly, and we are competing with a thousand people, but it was successful. What I found important to this resolution and to work on it was that there were 113 different proposals and in some way managed to go through it with an enormously rigid and well - mannered conference board from a member of Congress who entered this committee's office at the Third Committee, which dealt with democracy and human rights. This New Zealand senator's committee was so successful that we were able to go through all these changes in the Council of Geneva in the fall and get the case through, that it was approved by a rumour that is most enjoyable. What was so important about this work was that in some way all these countries were able to activate. Although Russia, China, and India had very damaging adjustments, they were able to reject and accept the best suggestions. This was an amazing meeting that took many hours, since we were reviewing these conclusions. What a precious privilege it is to have the opportunity to work with members of the Parliament! paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir especially. paritaprevir Ásmundur the Einar Daðason to feel the confidence I felt of them in the work I had the opportunity to work for the United States of Iceland at the International Parliament. When you're in a job where you're getting out of this pop line, which often wants to burn around here at the Senate Hall, and you get a chance to work on the subject, things that are difficult to share in are happening here. We are able to find ways to establish a common view of where we are going as a nation. That's very precious to me. And the vision we have given much emphasis on, especially at the right time. paritaprevir Ragnheiður, the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, is about the right to attend, and especially for girls. Hv. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir has given much attention to our colleagues, the rest of the council, in this vast group of senators who attend the International Assembly. I think it's very important that we maintain that unique position. However, we have also begun to call attention to the speciality and expertise that the Icelandic senators have highlighted, of course, as well as to other sources of energy, but also to legislation before the 21st century. There's a lot to say when you've been watching these jobs, both in the International Parliament and elsewhere, how well you've been able to handle the responsibilities in this work by taking the initiative to make conclusions as well as many other factors. So I find it very enjoyable. It just shows that you're not like that, like what you're doing. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Kálsdótttir, who worked in the United States, came in earlier, into some sort of international profession. After all, it is clear that when you make the effort to leave and participate in such a work, you get a very deep knowledge of many language groups, a knowledge that is difficult to obtain here at home. You get a lot of insight into the mattresses going on in the worldwide work, and you're not going there unless you have something to do. I have seen almost no doubt this with the members of the council I have been working with in the international work, and I have participated in two international committees since my arrival at the council. Toward the end of this talk, I wanted to mention that the International Assembly met a meeting of the IPU and the French Parliament in Paris, 5,◯. December in connection with the climate conference there. What happened there was also very important because, usually when a climate conference is held, there are not much consultations with the council; there are not many members at this conference. Since many members of the council were going to the IPU and the French Parliament, there was somehow a much better access, both before we went to the conference and at the conference itself, than before. That's what I think is very important. I think it is important that international committees of this kind try to take such a meeting together with large international events, so that members of the Parliament are better aware of what they are doing in the name of their people. It was a marvelously up - to - date meeting in the French Parliament, and Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter and I both spoke up. I allowed myself to be ashamed of only the French government for speaking on the other hand about the importance of consultation with the grasslands and listening to the public and being arrested and placed under house arrest by a vast number of people who were impossible to find out why they were under house arrest. Then these people are the people who might be faced with protests, and they did not appear until people were released from that prison for what they were doing - and in some cases there was no particular reason, people did not even have to appear before a judge. I think this is a very serious development. I would have liked to review the report and read it all, but I would like to encourage those who are able to study the activities of the International Committees, or the international committees involved in it, for there is an amazing wealth of knowledge and it is necessary to continue on the journey to bring this deeper into the Senate work. Finally, I want to thank you for two members who worked very hard and unselfishly for the committee. First, there is the secretary of the Committee, Arna Bang, and a member of the Congress of Porta, the First Aðalheiður of Ámundadóttir, who came with me to help with my work in connection with the resolution in Geneva on autumn days.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u53	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir for bringing us the report of the International Assembly of Iceland. Clearly, in this regard very many and very interesting things are being discussed. I think there is no doubt that those who engage in such activities have very deep knowledge of many metal groups. That's why I think reports like this are very important, because at least we who are interested in the language will read them. This has something to do with the discussion that took place a few minutes ago on the matter of Congress, where we are talking about the importance of foreign affairs into the discussion. It is evident that at the scene of the International Parliaments Association, all of this is being handled in an enormous international setting and enough to mention such matters as the support of Syrian refugees and other matters. I wondered, " Is this not an example of making a process so that the case that is being discussed in this field somehow will be established during the Assembly? ' I can see from the text that such expressions are like a U.S. Congress urging us to do something, or a regional convention, to ensure something in the United States that this does not seem to be a legal problem that we are facing. [[The president calls.]] Is this not just an example of how we need to put this into this scale? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u54	President. Thank you very much for asking. Yes, it is of utmost importance to get it under control. For example, in the resolution I received to write for IPU in cooperation with a South Korea senator, who, in fact, gave me great confidence that in the end, I basically won it from here: To ensure that their governments work fully with special representatives of the United Nations on the rights to privacy, on the increase and protection of freedom of opinion and expression, on the status of defenders of rights and on the promotion and protection of human rights and on the basic rights of terrorism, including the challenge of a digital age; encourages the Assembly to present themselves to the teachers and to stipulation the necessary legal order for their implementation, as appropriate. It also says in step 22: It is strongly encouraged by the National Congress to facilitate information protection in the network and related infrastructures, to protect citizens' privacy and freedom of persons by formal and informal cooperation and international relations to exchange information and share experience; further limit national cooperation in technology and practice, and to work together to reduce the risk of Internet crime and network attacks, and in this regard to the modern debate of international agreements to handle multiple digital activities, including the speed of response. I'll take this as an example in which it is very firm. If I hadn't asked the secretary of state to get this translated, nothing would be doing with it. It's just one thing. There are a lot of other matters that vacuum. It is natural for us senators to be responsible not to.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u55	Madam President. I wholeheartedly agree that it is our responsibility not to vacuum, but when individual senators try to pick them up, or because they see an urgent political need to pick them up, they are always very heavy when all the plots and formalities and the system we're working on is really in trouble. Although I don't want to minimize the responsibility of our members, I think it's very important that we look at a systematic foundation and deal with it. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament later countered because I know that she has shared in various international work done by the Allied Icelanders: Does she know anything about this in other countries? You can read from this expression that it is lacking, or what I think, that it is missing in more places than in Iceland. I know what you're doing. A senator of some form of example, that of the matters discussed in the field to form the International Parliament Society or at the scene of another international work going into a course where things are taken up and out of the heads of Congresss of certain states?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u56	Thank you for the question. I have called for this information and found that mature democracy is at its worst rate, while, for example, South Africa has a set channel for this which is in the spirit of the one we discussed earlier today. .., how can we make sure that the international committees and the conclusions presented in our name end at the council in discussion and in resolutions. I am now making such a move in March at the next meeting of the International Parliament, where this will be specifically discussed, and I have arranged a meeting with the president of the International Parliament to discuss some of these matters with him. I can't wait to see what comes out of it. I'd like to challenge those senators who have not had the opportunity to read the conclusions of democracy in a digital world and a threat to privacy and individual freedom. I had it follow up with a request to report to the Minister of the Interior Affairs on this matter, and there's a lot of indications that we can already start to see if we can't take care of ourselves. I would also like to encourage members of the international work to promote their work in some way at the General Assembly. It is clear that these discussions we have here today need to take place with more members of the council, and they need to take place more than once a year, e.g. The IPU discussion. Last year there was no discussion. It was postponed for a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u57	A respectable president. When radical technological changes are introduced in society, they are for good and for bad. Learning to use oil made it possible for us to drive either ambulances or tanks. When it comes to information technology, it's the same story, that is, technology changes that cause profound changes in society itself, whether it comes to employment, privacy, or even legislation, government, etc. This will change our culture, this will change our future, this will change our instruments, and this will change threats. When technology changes, knowledge of it is only in the hands of experts, there is a danger of making wrong decisions by other well - meaning people. I used to reason with a man who, for example, wanted to enforce an author's rights online by eavesdropping a direct connection and analysing the material that goes between the user and some random contact online. There, the person who used the justification of Edward Snowdens's revelations used it as a justification for that, as an example of some kind, which is, of course, a failure. This, however, underscores the reality of the threat. You see, the problem with technological advances such as information technology and oil is how useful these things are, how much power they are, how much opportunity they unleash. There is a need for technology to be new, and we are aware of the consequences of our actions. As the previous article shows, we are likely to make a very serious mistake if we do not understand the nature of technology and the impact of our actions. In this regard, there has been an international debate over the effects of technology on human rights and civil rights. There are conflicts among all large nations, I think, and all the military powers, all of the secret officers, all the police officers who have access to technology, to use it for observation, which, in effect, means to shut down. Similarly, there is a rich tendency to the superior authorities, whether in the form of governments or businesses or whatever, to be in control of discussions and, in particular, information, because the management of human society is under control, and there is nothing less than what is at stake in this otherwise interesting and fine 21st century. Therefore, it is extremely important that the Council take it seriously when the International Parliament's Association deals with the situation in the way it has done and may be appreciated and received kindly. senators who have been behind it. But I fear that this case, which is human rights of the 21st century in relation to the information revolution, will continue to be defined by some form of ignorance, whether it is a lack of understanding of technology itself or a lack of understanding of the importance of holding to that rights. Again, information and information technology are extremely practical. How practical and practical it is for a great many to gather a lot of personal information and make use of it for every sort of purpose! It is extremely convenient to have information under control. This involves the temptation, the temptation to engage in well - meaning people who want their community well but do not understand the consequences of their approach to information technology. Yet, I am reasonably optimistic because, fortunately, things like those presented in the report under consideration are happening. The discussion takes place. She's a bit behind some wrong decisions. One fine example in my opinion of the wrong decision was to allow a businessman to impose a restraining order because of a penalties, I recall that it was in a Congress case in 2010 that it happened in Iceland. It was a very bad development, but it's not out of sight how that story ends, and it's still being discussed by the county and the judiciary. Perhaps it is best to tell of the struggle between authors or rights such as STEF, the institutions that protect the rights to the intermediate groups such as Networks. New ideas are constantly born to make use of the technology that may seem good and may seem reasonable at first, but it is important to pause and ask: How do they affect human rights? And not only are they affecting human rights at once but they are the effects of approach on human rights. A fine example of this is the closure of sites. A site shutdown is a recording of a publication, it's the same thing, the media is just different. I think that if we set a law that remembered the communications recording of literature, it would now be heard in someone who cares about human rights, it's over if we don't realize that it's the same thing online. It's the same thing. In some ways, indeed, because it causes the processes to control information to become more efficient, which they are not supposed to be. It's supposed to be hard to silence people. It's supposed to be hard to tap and spy. It should be an effort to maintain the human rights that we will take for granted in the 21st century. So I welcome this report, and the discussion really takes place and I hope that politics can keep up with technology.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u58	President. I would like to read this conclusion in a digital world, a threat to privacy and individual freedoms adopted at 133th C.E. in Geneva, October 21, 2015. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, It also reminds us of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which include the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the appropriate international Convention, including the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the International Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural Rights. Further, it reminds us of the 118th Parliament's resolution of the role of Congress in creating a balance between national security, public security, and individual freedom and the prevention of a threat to democracy (Purity City, April 2008). Guided by the UN General Assembly of 69/166, the right to privacy in a digital century since December 18, 2014. Also points to the United Nations Human Rights Report on the Rights to Privacy in a digital century. Reminds of the UN's guiding rules on business and human rights and of which both citizens and businesses can play a vital role in increasing or reducing human rights, including the right to privacy and freedom of expression in digital times, taking into account the fact that basic rights also apply in Internet worlds. Accepting the unscrupulous ties of democracy and the right to immunity, freedom of expression and freedom of information and open and free Internet, and in view of international recognition of the right to privacy, its protection in international law and the expectations of citizens around the world that the right to privacy is preserved both by law and by execution. It also acknowledges that in the field of digital surveillance it is not enough to agree and enforce the law and that righting regulations may be impaired and the control of an uncertain situation. Complaining the concern that systemic surveillance through digital communication and other forms of digital expression includes violations of rights to privacy, including national boundaries and threats of right to expression freedom and information, as well as other fundamental human rights, including the right to peaceful relations and community freedom, thus exoneration into democracy. Accepts the need for the building of the skills and authority of members of the Parliament and special committees to highlight a gap in the law, a sentence on the protection of human rights, including the right to privacy, and to prevent such rights. The rights of the National Congress to implement, in accordance with international principles and commitments, a collective law code on adequate Senate monitoring to have an effective vision of the activities of the states and/or their surveillance agencies, and to ensure that legal responsibility will be shouldered to all violations of human rights and individual freedoms. The need for activation and consultation with all relevant stakeholders, including the free partnerships, the school system, the technology community, and the private sector on digital policies. Accepts the importance and expertise of national human rights institutions, free society organizations and spokesmen of human rights and their role in monitoring, policy development, consultation and awareness, and celebrates increased cooperation between these parties and the members of Congress and members of Congress worldwide. Based on the work and contribution of these organisations, such as the International Human Rights Act on Communication and Interim Monitoring, which are supported by more than 400 Free Associations and Global Network Associations. Confirming the need for loyal and unsatisfactory communication in the interests of the public and the protection of fundamental rights. Appreciates the results of the UN's special ambassador for the promotion and protection of freedom of expression and freedom of thought, the use of encryption and anonymous identity. Accepts the contributions made by Parliaments and their impact on decisions that provide the necessary loneliness within the country and on international level on integrated and efficient measures in these issues. 1st National Parliaments to participate in the development and implementation of a global policy that will allow the public to, in the long run, enjoy the considerable costs that the Internet can provide for economic, social, cultural, and environmental life in order to achieve the sustainable objectives of the United Nations. 2. Emphasis that this global policy aims to create a digital ecosystem capable of ensuring all citizens of the same rights and to ensure that their freedom is maintained effectively; in particular, it is time to teach the public digital skills and to ensure equality between parties, which prevents misuse of the existing position. 3. Emphasizes that all legislation in the field of surveillance, privacy, and personal data must be based on the principle of validity, transparency, moderate, necessity, and justice. 4. Encouraged by Congress to review laws and regulations to promote and increase participation and participation in the public in digital times. Now I have to stop because I'm so sick. I encourage people to finish reading this fine conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u59	V.E.G. President. I recommend a report by the Western Council for 2015. The Western Council is the Council of Parliamentary Congress in the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, and Iceland, founded in 1985. There are 18 members of the Council, six members of each Member State. The aim of the Council is to work on the interests of the West-Northern, to protect the resources and cultural heritage of the region, to promote the cooperation of the governments and the national governments of the three countries on important matters, and to be a contingency between the Western Community partners. In the Western Cathedral of Iceland, the Watch Tower Society was seated. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Páll Björnsson, and Páll Jóhann Pálsson of the first half of the season. In the fall of Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who was the leading man, entered the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson from the forward party. The secretary of Iceland is Guðjónsdóttir Ása Gujonnasdóttir and I would like to thank her for a good job in behalf of the council. In 2015, two meetings of the Western Council were as usual. A theme convention was in Asiaat, Greenland, in January and then the annual meeting of the Governing Body in Runavík, the Faeroe Islands, in August. For example, at the University of Asia, Greenland, the theme convention discussed ways to improve cooperation between the three northern countries and particularly the possibility of a vacation agreement between the countries and a special Western business council. We had many good guests at the conference, including Sigríður Huld Blöndal, executive director of the Arctic Circle, who discussed the long - term prospects of Western northern countries from the view of those who are not of the region. At that time, Egill Þór Níelsson, director of the Chinese orgy of the Arctic National Institute of the Stupid Chinese Institute, was with us and discussed the policy of Western North America from a Western perspective with emphasis on cooperation opportunities as well as potential conflict of interests. It should be noted that Egill Þór Níelsson has been hired to advise and include: Working on these matters for us. We had many other good visitors, including Three Ministers. First of all, Niclasen Niclasen, the then secretary of finance of the Faeroe Islands, who discussed the importance of the cooperation of the three countries, the Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson, the sea emissary and agricultural minister of Iceland, who spoke of what it was that united the three countries, and stressed the need for us to establish formal meetings between ministers so that politics could create the necessary framework. At the same time, Vittus Qujaukitsoq, who was then Minister of Foreign Affairs of Greenland, was largely discussing the Greenlands'position on a Western vacation agreement. It should be noted that this was made clear in the Greenlandn case at the meeting that they were not interested in joining the Hoyvík Convention, which is a contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands. They are more interested in making a new three - side deal or a contract between Greenland and the Faeroe Islands on the other hand and Greenland and Iceland. This was a clear conclusion, and it is clear that we need to work at that process. We had in the wake of the meeting appointed a committee to sit at the council presiding committee and three members of the council, i.e. One from every country, to pass through the north ways. I have to say, that's a really good job. I sure hope that this will be done on an ever larger scale, the ship of the Subcommittee, working between meetings to prepare the issues that are best planned. A annual meeting of the Governing Body was held in Rúnavík, Faeroe Islands 10,◯13. August, last August. This was one of the largest meetings in the council's history because it was not just a traditional annual meeting but was also a celebration of the Council's birthday celebration that celebrated the 30th anniversary. At our birthday party, we had a nice guest, including... President of Iceland, Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, honorful of the Council's honors given for the first time. The president was given them for highlighting the stronger position of the Western region in the north and encouraging the Western Council to increase its international demonstration and to draw attention to the Western region in their conversation with the leaders of other countries, the business, and the scholars. I think it's safe to say that the Westnorological Council has few friends as well as the President of Iceland who is discussing our global work and the work being done. At a meeting of birthdays at the council in the Northern House of Thorsla in the Faeroe Islands, many good guests would present a address, including The president of Iceland, the highest. The prime minister of Iceland, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Kim Kielsen, chairman of the Greenland Home Government, and the one standing here as head of Iceland and vice president of the Western Council. The president of Iceland reviewed the strong positions and new facilities that the Western countries would have gained because of the importance of the north. It is clear that we in the Western Council must take this position seriously and focus on making it visible and drawing attention to the work being done in it. Clearly, the particular position of the Council is that we have the strong weapon that was discussed earlier today that we can draw conclusions that we agree on at annual meetings for the three Parliaments and that will be approved in all equal terms in all three countries. Governments of the three countries then have a joint task and work to implement the council's conclusions. The projects that will burn most in the Western Council in the next few years are free trade, transportation, ocean affairs, and northern routes. I think it's safe to say that this terms of the Council have been high in the Arctic. It is clear that the changed position in the northern part of the world is both opportunities and challenges, and I really hope that the Council will exist in that discussion. The Council played a great role in the past year. We were actively involved in the Arctic Circle Conference, which was a major program in Iceland. We had a special seminar where democracy was discussed in the North as well as two lunch meetings, one with the elected members who attended the conference and then with business partners in the West Pacific. In fact, that meeting was also attended by representatives from the United States. The reason we speak of democracy in the north is because we represent the people living in the region, who live in the north. We feel that it is our duty to maintain the interests of the local people and try to encourage elected representatives from the region to interfere with the Arctic, to take part in what the national governments are deciding, what the officials are saying, and what major corporations are doing in the area. Although it is not part of this annual report, it has now happened this weekend at the Council's Theme Conference in Grindavik that signing was a contract between the Western Council and the Arctic Circle for recruiting a member of the Arctic Circle. This means that we become a regular part of the Grand Prix every year in Harpa. We've got something to say about what the material of the Arctic Circle meetings are and we're taking the initiative to make a point. This is an enormous step in making sure that the Western world has a permanent position in northern languages. Another big story about the conference is that it was stated in Iceland's address that there will now be two fixed points in the Arctic Circle, i.e. The big conference in Harpa every year, and then there will be a regular meeting in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands every two years. It is of utmost importance to us who work in the Western region to see that the Arctic Circle and the President of Iceland emphasize the decision that the Western region is actually the center of the Arctic. Of this, we are extremely proud and, of course, look forward to participating in the use of certain materials at the Arctic Circle meetings. In addition to the regular meetings I have already mentioned, of course we met with members of the European Union, as we do each year. It covered issues that are best burned in the Western Council in cooperation with the European Union. At the same time, the one involved in two meetings in Alaska on behalf of the council. On one hand, the Arctic Circle Conference for harbors and shipping routes in Anchorage, August. There I was able to sit along with the president of Iceland for a business meeting, including the U.S. with Bill Walker, governor of Alaska, Fran Ulmer, U.S. Secretary of State on Northern Affairs, and Nils Andreassen, director of the Institute of the North. At that meeting, another legal vice president of the council was invited to join the Arctic Energy Summit Conference in Fairbanks, Alaska, on September 27. There I began a discussion and participated in a panel on sustainable development and regional energy strategy and was able to present the challenges and conclusions that have been discussed in this subject. Mr. President. The Western Council has a clear course, and I hope to see in the coming years that we will further use ourselves to strengthen democracy in the north by continuing the discussion that we already have with other elected representatives in the north. I'd also like to mention, because earlier this afternoon's discussion discussed how to strengthen the upcoming Arctic discussion, including the idea, has been developed. at the theme conference that I quoted and went on for the weekend by the Western Council in Grindavik, whether it is time for the council to form a special committee of the north. I think it might be a little too much to attack on it right away. The idea earlier today arose that a foreign - language committee would take additional initiative in discussing northern languages in their own area. That's one idea. Another idea would be to include with a collaborator of the Western Council, the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Northern Council, and members of the Council of the North to review the issues that are most important to the council and see if any of them need to submit to the council. Finally, I'd like to know that the Western Council has applied for an audience at the North Pole. It is clear that in the next year, we need to work quite a bit in obtaining that application. The United States is now leading the Arctic Council, and it has been published that all applications will be postponed until May 2017, then the Americans will be submitted, and then they will be taken into account on these applications. An important point in considering our application and following it is to meet the representatives of the people who make that decision. I certainly hope that in the months to come, the Presidency Committee of the Western Council will empower the Council to present the council and call attention to our application. As part of this, representatives of the Council will attend the Arctic Circle conferences both now in March of Québec and in the spring of 2016. At those meetings, we meet people who can help us in our fight, and we certainly hope that they will accomplish everything. Mr. President. Great work was being done in 2015, and considering the spirit of our camp for the weekend, I assume that this year, which has begun, will be even more effective in our work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir Consecretsdóttir for the report. I would like a short talk to highlight the importance of the cooperation of Greenland, Iceland, and the Faeroe Islands, and I believe that it was probably never more important in just over 30 years of the Western Council than at present. The Council is appointed members of the three countries, and over the past few years, it has emphasized the importance of strengthening the state of the Western states of the north and protecting common interests against the challenges facing them. At the 2012 Annual Meeting of the Telecommunications Council, the Council agreed to further strengthen cooperation in northern affairs and to define in detail the areas of national interests. At a theme conference in January 2014, Egill Þór Níelsson, a scholar of China's stupid Chinese Institute, presented a report he had prepared. The report discusses the state of the Western North with special emphasis on their economic interests. It is not only a matter of discussing which areas of cooperation can be considered and where major barriers and stakeholders are involved but also of important environmental issues to consider. A writer points to a number of ways of cooperation that must be considered in the future, such as in the fields of fishing, investments, trades, transportation, health and education, search and saving, oil and gas development, water and land temperatures, tourism, research and culture. Further development of ideas reported in this report has been carried out as president of the Western Council for Iceland. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir Congisdóttir, passed over earlier. The areas of cooperation that have been most widely discussed so far and apparently basis for the transport of ships and airplanes, both between the three countries and other faraway countries, as well as the market of international marine roads and the tourism industry. Healing is already quite a fact, but he needs to be strengthened even more, as in education. A great deal of discussions have also been made about a common center of searching and saving, as well as the need for it by increasing migration throughout the north. Companies that show interest in trade based on national cooperation need clear guidelines and therefore the three countries need to work together on the game rules and to work diligently to combine the benefits of existing contracts between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands and Iceland and Greenland, on the other hand, with the products that can be profited by all. The Western Council is the site of cooperation that should ensure that such a frame will be ready for all three countries as soon as possible. In March 2011, the General approved a resolution on northern policy. It is expected to increase cooperation with the Faeroe Islands and Greenland and increase the political importance of the three northern countries. It is also aimed at building a business partnership in the north and making it easier for Icelanders to compete for opportunities for employment that will result in an increase in economic activity in the region. Here, however, caution is needed, since increasing activities can reduce the quality of the future, to ensure that the UN Sea rights Convention will be based on a UNECE solution, to protect the indigenous rights, to provide protection against climate change, to sustainable use of resource, responsible integration of vulnerable ecosystems and environmental protection. Now there are many who look to the north. Some think well of the coals, even wanting to profit from the situation. It is very important that Greenland, Iceland, and Faeroe Islands grow closer and defend their common interests. In this regard, there is the key to the increase in knowledge and discussion among the peoples of the three countries and that we in Western countries will not allow others to decide our future, for that is what we shall do for ourselves. It is important that we become team members to the Arctic Circle Conference, and we, of course, are also expected to be in the Arctic Council. Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion. I believe that the work in the Western Council is improving and increasing, and as I said at the beginning of my talk, it has never been more important than at present.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir In 2015, Brá Konráðsdóttir for a report on the work of the Western Council in Iceland. As the report shows, this has certainly been an eventful year. That was a major stage when the Vistorinian Council of the Faeroe Islands celebrated the 30th anniversary of the Westnoric Council. It was done with a bang and a bang, for good reason. There were many good guests. It is a joy to see that this cooperation has been very successful and is always growing stronger. The combined interests of these three neighbors, Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland are great, and especially now, in the affairs of the north. How important it is to maximise the influence of the three countries on the north, where the major world powers are now looking, and it is urgent to protect the interests of the nations in the region for the future! The nations today have a wide variety of cooperation in fishing, education, culture, and health. During the recent annual meeting, it was concluded that there would be a further improvement in this cooperation and a map of how countries could expand their cooperation in the waters of the seaways, the vacation shops, the transportation, and the development of community infrastructure. The geographically Western region in the middle of the North Atlantic, between continental Europe and North America, and with increased linking to Asia, makes transport there much to increase throughout the region. There has been much talk of opportunities that arise when Arctic shipping is increasing, but less is said of the threats to which the breads of the nations will live if, for example, a pollution disaster occurs. North Pole's topic is discussed at the Arctic Council and in other places. Granted, big nations, also having great interests, are at risk. That is why you have high hopes that the review of the Western Council for an audience at the Council of North Pole will be accepted. The voice of the Western states is very important. In the long run, the development of a responsible and sustainable policy in the North, and further shipping throughout the North, is making Iceland an ideal place for international search and rescue centres. The Western nations have concluded in that subject, and we Icelanders through it have given us a key position. The Western Council agreed in 2013 to investigate the cause of a reduction in women in Western America. The conclusion has not been fully fulfilled, but a conference was held in June 2015 at Nuuk, where representatives of the country discussed this problem. In the Faeroe Islands, what causes peripheral transport has been charted. I think this is an important task that needs to be thoroughly distinguished and to respond to without disaster. This problem is well - known in Iceland, where we share it with these countries, Faeroe Islands, and Greenland. There is a large increase in the transport services of these three countries, although nothing compares to the explosion that has occurred in a number of tourists in Iceland. It is important to improve cooperation in national tourism and work on a joint market for the north through sustainable and natural cleanness. Let us remember that it is primarily because of nature that tourists travel to the countries. Exciting projects are ahead of us in the fields of courses for Western writers. The National Education Ministry of Education is to consider whether such courses can be set up in a collaboration agreement for education, culture, and research that is being developed between these countries and was discussed at the Council of the Northern Council in Reykjavík last year. There's a lot of pressure on resources to land and sea in the Western countries from big countries and rich circles. It is important to coordinate the forces of these neighboring nations so that their resource efficiency is sustainable and that the product is used to build up at home by the growing community and that the nations maintain their sovereignty over their own resources. Hv. The head of Iceland at the Western Council spoke of a cooperation agreement made at the Arctic Circle Conference, the Circle of the North. The Western Council participated in that conference last year, and now we are joined by such a conference with this cooperative agreement. I believe that it can benefit us and help us to find that ringboard. It is not good to be heard because we need to be everywhere with a decision - making campaign on the affairs of the north, which is now urgent for some time. In general, I think that the cooperation between the Western countries is very important and, as agreed, is under the Parliamentary arrangement which will be recommended as follows by the National Department of England, all of which are on important issues to continue the cooperation of the nations. One suggestion is a long-term policy regarding transport and infrastructure in the Western Netherlands. Another suggestion is to strengthen the cooperation of the three nations on the seabed. The third proposal covers the analysis of the joint benefits of Western countries on the free trade agreements and the Western Business Council. All of these are subjects that have been under discussion and are important for the development and that there is also some conclusion that we can build on and benefit those nations thereafter. I can totally agree with what was in the discussion earlier today, that for the cooperation of nations and products of international cooperation and work committees it is very desirable that the results of that work are visible, and people do not view these as regular dance clubs and then come home with something of no use to anyone or anyone. At the end, I want to make a statement from the Prime Minister of Greenland, a statement he gave to his birthday speech at our annual meeting in the Faeroe Islands last year. He said, with President's permission: We don't always see the stars, but we know they're there. Similarly, the friendship of these three countries is always there, although the oceans are understood to exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Brá, president of Iceland's Western Council, for the report. There is little more to her than simply repeat and merely call on the importance of this cooperation with the next neighbor in the East and the West. It has been particularly enjoyable to work in the council, and you always feel more and more fully about what these nations have in common, how much that connects them, many of the problems are similar in those countries, and how important it is to increase the cooperation of these nations. As we have seen, the president of Iceland, Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, honors the Council's Honorable Prize in the Faeroe Islands on the 30th anniversary of the Council, and would like to reiterate my gratitude to him and ours for the extent to which he has played a major role in putting this in the discussion of the North Seas. This Arctic Circle example is increasing quite a year from now, and there are great conferences involved and clearly exerting considerable influence, and thanks to him, we have signed a contract with the organization to be allowed to sit at their table so that the native voices can be heard more in that area. Much has been accomplished in this cooperation. There is increasing cooperation between health and education and culture. We are moving along the road, and there are apparent successes in these areas. For culture, a meeting was held last weekend in Grindavik, where they were tested for cultural evenings, where local residents were invited to meet them for a presentation of culture and art. They were singing and dancing and showing documentarys from Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. This is an ideal setting for them to become better acquainted with; we learn a little more about their culture and life, even though it is merely a personal bond and a different one between these nations, it helps us to understand one another. I'm not going to extend this to overemphasizing how important it is for us to keep in good contact with those nations, even though we don't always agree and argue about any things, but it's all the way to connect with them and to help us solve the problems that arise.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u63	V.E.G. President. The Western Council's Department of Iceland has proposed three proposals for Congress and will now be recommended here. First, we'll start with the Western holiday contract and the Western Business Council. At a theme conference held in Asiaat, Greenland, a year ago, we discussed these matters. We had the goal of developing the common interests of Iceland, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands by building a common Western Arctic policy. One of the ideas and suggestions created from that work is the one discussed here, which includes that governments of the countries of the three groups of experts, who are assigned to identify a common benefit that would become a Western holiday contract and a Western business council. First, we make it clear that there will be a minimum of the advantages and weaknesses of making such a Western vacation agreement or, on the other hand, a two - side agreement between Greenland and Iceland, and Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. Second, in which areas the countries would benefit from increased vacations and in what areas a growing vacation store would not be desirable. Third, consider the pros and cons of forming a Western vacation area that involves free flow of goods, people, services, and capitals. Fourth, consider the benefits and defects of forming Western business agencies, including the opportunities and barriers to free and open trade between countries. In the Western Council, these issues have been very discussed in recent years. Iceland and the Faeroe Islands have made a free trade deal, the Hoyevík Convention, and for years it has been discussed with the Greenlandns to join that contract. It has now been made clear on the part of Greenland that there is no interest in becoming a member of that agreement, but rather interest in going that way. I think it's important that this proposal be well discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee. I really hope that it will be approved so that the governments of the three countries will ship this task force of experts to further matters. The best course of action is now clear. The board has now been carved off this possibility for the expansion of the Hoyvík Convention, and there is nothing more to be done than to start with the next job, which is to go to this analysis so that we can make decisions about the next steps. I hope that council proposal gets a positive report on the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u64	V.E.G. President. I recommend a Senate resolution on the long-term transport policy and infrastructure policy in the Western Pacific, which is rooted in work established by the Western Council following its annual meeting in the Western Islands in 2014. At that time, a joint committee of the Presidency Committee of the Governing Body and an additional member of the body was appointed from each country. The committee met twice to identify areas where the three countries share common interests and may increase cooperation. We have published a report on this work adopted at the annual meeting of the Council of Runake in August 2015, and the idea behind the report was that this work could become the basis for a joint Western policy between the three countries. One of the points at the top of this report is the very subject of this series, i.e. Transports and infrastructures in Western countries. Because of the geographic area, we are now well aware that we have a great opportunity to have closer cooperation between the three countries. Transport is of great importance to the three countries, including economics, and we see that by working better together, all three countries can profit and the common benefits are that, not just on the field of infrastructure and transportation, but in general, in the north. But we're gonna start at the beginning. Today, other nations are increasingly taking up cooperation in the northern regions. We think we, the West Witches, have every opportunity to be stronger in unity if we work better together. Materially, the synonym suggests that Iceland's Government and the National Governments of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland operates as an analysis with the aim of considering the possibility of developing a common long-term policy in the area of transportation and infrastructure in the Western Netherlands. The purpose of this is that the area as a whole will be better established by increasing international rivalry in the north. It is important for all of us who live and work in the Western region to realize that we are in international competition with other surrounding areas of transport and goods, as well as with our basic work practices, fishing roads, tourism, and energy industry. In order to strengthen all three countries, infrastructure needs to be strong, and the synergistic effect can be intense in this area. It is possible to improve transport efficiency and infrastructure through increased cooperation in the Western region for the benefit of all. I hope that the Parliament's resolution proposal will get a good publicity on the Foreign Affairs Committee and will hopefully be approved at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u65	V.E.G. President. I recommend this time from the Western Council's Iceland Department. It involves a suggestion to support cooperation between the three countries in the fishing business. The objective of this is to fully use the unique state of Western countries as marine waters. So we suggest that the national governments study, through diagnostics, how to strengthen cooperation. We're counting on the co-operation of marine practices, the cohesion potential of fish fishing management, common Western brands and common market fish products, the cooperation potential for marine research, the state of the environment and sustainability, the benefits and problems of cooperation on better markets, including EU markets, common policies and agreements in the seas, and other analyses of the areas of cooperation of the three countries that are stronger than one and the other. We live so well that we had a theme conference in Grindavík for the past weekend and a guest from the Icelandic government was the highest. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. It is safe to say that the minister is very interested in the fact that the three countries strengthen their cooperation in this field. It is, therefore, a joy to tell of the fact that the minister of the seminary remains to suggest that this material be fulfilled. It is quite clear that the three countries can, in the long run, strengthen their economy by starting more cooperation. The area's uniqueity is that the income of fishing is much more than that of other countries in the north. Fish and fish products are 88% of Greenland export, 41% of Iceland's export and 94% of the Faeroe Islands, which are numbers from 2012. We believe in the Western Council that the points listed, and we suggest that the analysis take place, will provide sufficient results so that we can step forward. In recent years, at our meetings, particularly with the European Union, we have been trying to work together to solve the issues that the three nations, either on their own or on all, have shared with the European Union. This shows that we can use ourselves as a team. It also states that as a result of changes in the temperature of the climate change, we see changes in the up-to-date fish; we can talk about mackerel, etc. We believe that increasing Western cooperation, on the exchange of marine populations, could be a major benefit to the region. Of course, we would like to be based on scientific counseling and knowledge, including marine research institutions of the three countries and joint research. It is true that we all live in the same ocean area and have a common responsibility to maintain the resources provided by the marine environment. V.E.G. President. I certainly hope that this council proposal will receive a positive subsidiary and good treatment on the foreign committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u66	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but trust that the case will go to the committee and be treated appropriately. It claims to itself that the land of these three countries is enormous, and experience shows that the fish has lost track and swim between them, they don't respect borders, they don't respect the limit of the fishing history of Iceland and Greenland or Iceland and the Faeroe Islands. So it is in nature that if these three countries came together for the common use of fish stocks, they would be able to catch from their common stocks on what. Of course, certain cooperation is there, both for scientists and for those in charge. There's a trade between fishing warrants and fishing permits for what. But it's all possible to make up, and I'm really happy here that we're trying to move on in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u67	V.E.G. President. The purpose of this bill is two aspects, on the one hand, to bring in the terms of the current author law, which deals with the rights of authors and authors, in accordance with the development of authorial legislation in other Norwegian states, particularly with respect to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2001/29/EC from 22 May 2001 on the coordination of certain aspects of the authors' union and related rights in the information community, and on the basis of a legislation of the change of the Convention Directive. For example, when discussing contract requirements, it is legal to use tasks protected by the Author's rights, which have made a deal with a author-sized body on the use of member or its members, e.g. with photocopies, it should also be permitted to use the works of authors outside the organization, provided the work is the same as the work of the contract, and the use in other respects depends on the terms of the agreement. We received many good visitors and, among other things, was the case with the committee's 1st par. The bill involves restrictions on communication and information freedom. The Commission wants to state that authors' exclusive rights are listed in chapter I of the law and II. The section of the law discusses the limitations and exceptions of authors' exclusive rights for various applications. We believe it's right to point to 2 and 3 mg. The previously proposed Directive, adopted by authors in 2006, provides a full list of all the exceptions and limitations of the authors' exclusive rights of the EEA Member States. We received information on the Commission that changes in the exceptions and limitations of authors' private rights have already been made in the field of European Compatibility and at the scene of the World Health Organization and the European Commission reviewing the contents of the Directive. This, of course, is being done in the light of the rapid changes that have occurred in information and communication technology. We feel that it is important to keep an eye on this discussion. We also indicate that the exception and limitations of the individual authors'review of II are expected to be discussed in more detail. chapter of the currently existing author song. I say today, three committee opinions on the change of author law are recommended, so it is clear that there is a great deal of change in these fine laws. Among other things, we had good visitors from the Audio Library. In the opinion of the committee, there are fine answers to comments received from them. For one thing, we refer to 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Twenty-niner. The law is a common warrant. The model for this law is made from Norwegian and Danish laws and is intended to be used within such institutions as schools, health institutions, and nursing homes, where disabled people cannot take advantage of 1 mg. 1 1. The author's laws to make copies of the information that is for personal use. We do not really consider it a reason to respond to such comments. We discussed quite a few aspects of the Commission's view that the legal rights of the intermediate services introduced in 2010 had proved to be a challenge to the rights of the head and that it was being referred in particular to the court of the county office in Reykjavík. Clearly, a minister tore those views up when the bill was measured at 1st. We discussed this in the Committee, and we wondered whether it was time for us to establish a direct access to a national court to have a prompt treatment on such matters, which is the conclusion of the Committee to address the Ministry on the matter in further consideration and to determine whether there is a basis for providing a comprehensive bill on this subject before the 2016 fall. This is because we simply believe that the matter is that it requires more than the committee itself can make such a point. Overall, it is concluded by the Committee that, with more detailed terms of contract consent, the legal rights of those who do not choose to be members of the WCC are much clearer than before, and the public's availability that the author-sponsored activities will be improved, and therefore the bill is improving. We suggest that the bill be passed on. Three o'clock. Senators sign this opinion in advance. Foreman of the day. paritaprevir The Ólína - eyed Kjerúlf of the Þorvarðardóttir of Cheflörstein has been trying to limit the possibility of disabled persons to use sound books in the manner laid down in final paragraph 9. The bill. I can see why. Councilmen who also sign in advance, why. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson and what. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, is in the room and assumes that they are aware of their own warnings, and it will be much better if it comes directly from the council than from the one listed here. Under this opinion, the person here writes a letter. Councilmen Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Willum Þórsson Þrírsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason and Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir. As mentioned earlier, it was written in advance of what. Councilmen Ólína Þorvarðardóttir Þorvenardóttir, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u68	A respectable president. I take a sound to account for my findings in the bill and the opinion of the committee. They are three factors. First of all, I'm just as alert as what. paritaprevir Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þordónardóttir and what. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, who is attracted to limiting the potential of disabled persons to use audio books in the way that is required for the final part of the 9th chapter. The bill. Furthermore, I'm warning that after implementing the 2014/26/EU directive, this should preferably occur before a legal approval of such a bill, of course, that is part of the way this case develops here and abroad. But to me and us in the Piranha, it was important to keep them in line. Most important, I have a warning about what is presented in the Committee, which I do not in itself disagree with, to direct it to the Ministry to examine specific regulations on the law. My client lies in my agreement that the decision of the law does not belong with a businessman but with a court court, if that happens. However, I am basically against such a law over my head whether the case is with a businessman or in some emergency court treatment. But there's a discussion later, probably if the Ministry responds by presenting a special bill, then, of course, that discussion at home. I thought it was important to keep this up because I'm opposed to the introductions of the Internet, whether there's power in the courts or in the county. I, however, find it highly unnatural that this authority is with a businessman because it is rather an intervention, and therefore it has a proper place in the courts. In my opinion, the comment is that there is more power in the courts than that, but that does not necessarily mean that it is totally justified. But there's a discussion that comes later, and I've made an account of the warnings I have about the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u69	Mr. President. We're here to discuss matters that are about to be authorized, and we're not all over yet, even though the three of us are scheduled for today's program, there's more coming along. As we have just noted, I sign this opinion in advance, but then I'm on the two that follow. This one of my models looks like she's 9. Maybe it's worth reading it up here, but he'll say so, with President's permission: This law contains a general authority to negotiate which allows contracts to be granted in behalf of disabled people. A similar law is found in the Norwegian and Danish writers. The law allows recording of tasks sent on audio and TV if there is a contract that meets the requirements of a-party 14 paragraph. The bill. Such recordings can only be used for the benefit of blind, visually impaired, deaf, or those who are disabled or for other reasons are unable to make good use of standard media services. The authority provided by the Council applies to state and community agencies and other agencies working in the public service, for use within relevant institutions. While it is not required that a public agency be involved, institutions that are profited are out of the law. At the same time, the provision for uptake includes the provision for distribution of copies to individuals who agree with the directive. Those of us who have signed in advance do not consider that it is sufficient for those who are disabled and have access to audiobooks. It is a very special point that the committee referred to, quoting the comments of Iceland's Audio Library, says that the Audio Library believes that it will lead to double acts if the museum always has to produce its own audio books instead of using recordings published on the public market. That was a significant subject. It says here that those who are self-employing decide whether or not to deliver a source of the published marketing book. I remember that at least I was obliged to return copies of the collection, the National Library, and others, so that early editions were stored there. These were the audio books I published, or the tape actually at the time, that was so long ago. But we had to return these copies of ourselves so that they existed, e.g. in the Amts Library in Akureyri and as in the National Library, then, in fact, sent to the Sound Library, but I can't remember if it was related. But it's something special, if you think of this authorship and this right, if it's required to hand a source to these museums--now the Audio Library is the head collection of those who use audio books. I would like to follow up on the subject again and see if there is anything that can be corrected without the cost of a creative move, i.e. that the authors also have an obligation to submit this to audio books. At least I'd like to check it out. I agree with my point of view. A senator who spoke before me, when it came to this warrant, found that it was difficult to do so. But I trust the Ministry will continue to cooperate with this matter as presented here and has been discussed in the Committee. We can see that when a holistic bill appears as expected in the fall, it will be subject to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u70	V.E.G. President. Now we're on that bill about the change in authorship laws in the matter of orphans. The purpose of the bill is to implement the European Parliament's Directive and the Council on the right use of orphans. When we talk about orphans, we have works that are legal but authors or other courts are not known, or they are not known, but we cannot find out where they are, nor do we look for permission to spell or make them accessible. By means of this directive, certain cultural institutions are authorized to use works without the right authority if it is concluded that they are orphans. The premise for the use of orphans is that a detailed search has been made to try to find a right place before this use begins. There are no detailed numbers on the magnitude of orphans, but in some categories it is clear that there are considerable numbers. Actually, all who gave a review of this case agreed that the bill will bring great compensation and will eliminate uncertainty about the use of orphans. If the bill is to come forward, it means that the public access to authors of activities in the possession of cultures will become more readily available. The management committee made comments on the use of terms, but the bill is really not discussing it, and we refer them all to the overall review of the law currently being carried out. The Commission suggests that this bill will be passed on as it happens and under the opinion of the committee will write the one here and before. Councilmen Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Limited Árnason Þorvarðardóttir, Willum Thor Þór Helgi Gunnarsson, María Sigmundsdóttir, Mæfjörður Bjarkey, Móln Gjörn's Gunnarsdóttir, Álmjölmursson
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u71	V.E.G. President. I recommend a committee party regarding the Authorship and prolongation of the time of audio recordings. The purpose of this bill is to introduce the European Parliament's Directive and the Council on the change of the previous Directive on the protection of the authors' due and specific related rights taken up in the Annex on the Ideas of the Convention to the European Economic Area by Decision of the European Commission in 2013. This directive was to be implemented in the EU Member States later than November 1, 2013, but we were given time to implement it on August 1, 2014, so it is clear that we are only behind the protocol of the induction process. The primary objective of the bill is to suggest that the calculation of the text protection time will be consistent with the same rules for calculating the protection time for the two to-dos in question, i.e. The music and the lyrics. The period of protection for artists is about a lengthy time of recording and the duration of protection for audio recordings that have been published or made available to the public from 50 years to 70 years. This is to be calculated, as stated earlier, from the day of publication or when audio recording was made available to the public. A comparable increase in protection time for the producers of audiographs is also recommended. In handling the case of the committee, the need to list the protection of a book that will be 70 years from the death of the longer author. We discussed this in the Committee, but we emphasize that the bill does not include a change in the time of authoritarian protection that is now 70 years from the death of authors, as shown by 43. The law. In view of the fact that a note with a text can be viewed as a two-owned task, the duration of protection can be calculated independently for whether a job can vary after the death of musicians and text writers. Hence, it is necessary to state the overall protection of a music project with a text so that this does not cause any problems. In our committee opinion, we stated that the bill does not require the prolongation of the protection of authors, but of other related rights, i.e. transporter and manufacturer's rights. The objective is to reduce the risk that the artists of audio recordings will lose an important form of income late in their working years, and audio recordings are thus used to weigh their artistry's honor. It was noted that in view of the omission of the publishers'expansive contract, a number of audio recordings is not available on the market, although 50 years have not since the first edition. We believe that this is one of the points the Ministry should consider in the overall review of the existing author laws. We will then draw attention to the fact that we are a little late for implementing the directive, and therefore we believe it is urgent that the matter will be resolved at the council, as the EFTA Office has reported its decision that Iceland will be appointed for the EFTA Court due to a violation of the EEA Convention, but before the Agency has published a brief opinion on Iceland's contract break-off. We suggest this bill be passed on as it happens. Under the heading, write why. Councilmen Konráðsdóttir Krá Consleyddótttir, Steingrímsson Steingmursson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Ólína Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u72	Mr. President. I'm just gonna come in on the case mentioned earlier, i.e. About the fatherless acts. I think it is very important to increase the availability of tasks that otherwise could not have been used by e.g. Civil institutions have been unable to use works unless they have been consulted for a rightful person who has not even been found. Thus, at times it has limited access to very important tasks that could have been useful, including the following: at school and in other places or at various other jobs. I think it's very important that these laws exist. Although this may be the main source of induction, this is one of the things we've drawn too long to do, as noted by an authority, and we all wrote on the committee that it was important to complete this process. For what is here signed and I'll sign, i.e. With regard to protective times, I have always felt that the debate is permanence, that the author's record should be protected primarily. But it's not torn apart, as here we are trying to explain. That is not really true of two parties who make works, compositions, and lyrics. One falls apart, but the protection time has not reached these two factors. We know the stories of a variety of artists who have not even become famous until after their death and may first have received recognition. It's not that big a business way in this country, so there's no reason to extend it because people start losing weight in their lives. The career of artists does not always begin when they are very young. Rather, they may be adults when they appear on the scene. It is unnatural to be less likely to be less likely to receive a salary for what they did as they move toward a pensional age. That's why I think it's the best part. We discussed this matter a lot, and we had different opinions about it. Some people prefer not to have a time of protection, that this is, in fact, supposed to be open. But, of course, it's like any other piece of thought being done, i.e. You make notes and text. There are many other works of author security, not just books or compositions, as are also assumed here. As I said before, there may be a misunderstanding about being talking about the author's seal, which is already 70 years, that's what we're adding to the compositions and lyrics. The value of these people late in their working years will be reduced if the court of authorship is not extended, and it was observed by the committee that some thought it was an artist's honor. I'm not gonna say anything about it, but I think it's mostly about the possibility of keeping income that I don't think is too much for a lot of people. One of the things we talked about, and it's essential that we coexist with a protection period in the EEA. This is one way to do it. At least I'm happy and I hope that those who apply it will be happy. All I expect is that the matter will go through the council with a greater proportion of votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u73	A respectable president. It is a great privilege for me to recommend for a bill to legalize the changes in income tax laws due to renting one apartment. This bill is taken from us members of the United States Congress and is part of the proposal we have proposed in a Senate hearing proposal for emergency housing procedures. We chose to put this bill in particular so that it would receive political treatment without being part of the focal point of Congress because we feel that it is important to take a material view of the Council whether or not to give this tax rate. The bill suggests that in view of the rent market position at this time, where both rentable apartments and small apartments at best are both scarce and expensive, it is normal to take action to increase the supply of rented stores and thus to rent one apartment in long term taxpayers and those who rent their stores to real farms and others so encouraged them to do so. As the people around the world know, the number of apartments available to real habitats has decreased, at least in the capital area, due to increased attendance by tourists. It is important to encourage people who can rent out to rent out their homes rather than to tourists. Because people usually rent to tourists, because they have more money in them, taxes in this way can bridge in some way, not to the point, but to the extent that they help bridge. It is also important that people who may be reluctant to rent out today do more. Of course, pensioners watch, for example, that income income and income are considered to be payable under tax laws and that they cut the full pension of public insurance after a very low income market of less than 100 percent. K. is reached. It is very important that they get the motivation to rent out, older people to make pictures that may live in a big house and that can share it down and rent some of it out. You should not punish people for renting out when circumstances are the same as they do today. We also assume that these conditions for taxation will be tied up that housing will not be higher than the average rent in the area where the apartment is located. This is in order to reward those who keep rent prices in moderation and, therefore, that the tax rate is not good for those who rent on guards who fall to uproot the rent price. We are not supposed to use government funds to support people in raising rent under the circumstances as they are today. I'm not going to put up a discussion on this matter too much. The suggestion is reasonable. I hope she will be treated in a financial and business committee that she will likely go to, as a result of a change in income tax laws. I would like to remind you that in the first head changes were made on the part of the government in what way apartments are taxed in capital taxes, but we believe that it is normal to reward specifically those who rent out by the exception of one apartment in the way expected in the bill for various reasons. First, the appeal here is to non-employers, so we don't give a general discount of a capital tax on rent to those who rent a lot of apartments. On the one hand, the terms of the contract of at least 12 months are required to increase the number of apartments in real long - term rent, but I don't think there's any particular reason to give tax benefits to those who rent to tourists today. Third, it consists of the provision of intermediate retails in the relevant area to ensure that the procedure does not contribute to the general level of rent prices in the country. A respectable president. There may be no need to have much more to say on this matter. I reiterate what I said earlier that I hope that a financial and business committee is very careful on the subject, and I understand that. I'd very much like this bill to get a reimbursement here this spring. In conversations with members of all categories, I have noticed that the matter is of great interest. I've heard members of the constitution commend that. I've heard both the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and the Supreme Minister. Prime Minister commends this idea. It would be very important, I think, that this case and this proposal would be paid materially by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u74	Mr. President. I am so happy that I have the opportunity to recommend for a church resolution made by me. Councilmen of Svandís Svavarsdóttir, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and Bjark Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, a proposal for a hearing in the establishment of a climate council. Climate has been more prominent in this winter than in the first winter, thanks to a successful climate conference in Paris held in December, where the General took a handsome part and sent six o'clock. Councilmen to participate in that meeting. I think one of the lessons we can draw from this meeting is that if we are going to counteract the changes that will occur and can become a climate of man and man - made climates, it is very important that we combine environmental thinking and thinking about climate change into all government decisions, employment, and institutions and, in fact, everywhere in the community. To some extent, climates are similar to sex equality when it was scheduled. Success will not be achieved in this matter unless we always have this aspect in mind when making decisions. We can accept a number of practical suggestions here on how to deal with climate change, but they do not work if we have the other hand to do anything else that even encourages climate change. I mention, for example, that I have another Senate case aimed at changing the law on new investors so that new investors, for example, will be evaluated by climate targets, the climate targets that Iceland has undergone at the United Nations scene. I'd also like to mention that the Icelanders are in various international cooperations and climates are one of them, but we also sit at the table, for example, on vacation business, the TiSA treats, the TITIP treats, all of which are free trade agreements that will interfere with the world's free trade. And what will be the result of the agreements on climates if, for example, they become less home product in certain areas and thereby contribute to the transport of consumer products over half the globe with the related ecosystems and the effects on climates? That's why I say if we're serious about what we've been through and declare them climates have to become part of all society decision making. This proposal is part of making climate issues such as this. It is suggested that the Council of the United States hides the government to set up a climatic Council that is primarily responsible for making measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Iceland. The proposal assumes that the Environment and Resource Minister will appoint the chairman of this body and will represent the scientific community primarily, but cross-cutting agents, i.e. Special Agents, including From the EEA, the Weather Service, the National Institutes of Life and Environmental Sciences, the National Institute of Economics, it is very important that the economic change is below when we discuss climate change, Iceland's Natural Protection Agency and Land Protection, which are the free society organizations most relevant to these matters, the Environment Department of Iceland, agriculture is a key factor when it comes to climate change, Organization, it is very important when we organise new markets for climate development, Iceland's Economic and the European Union of Iceland, but the Council of the Council. It would be good for me to think that when this issue is addressed at the end of the question. The Environment and Transport Committee and, if the Committee is prepared to provide the course I hope of, for example, that even there were additional representatives taken from the employment community and the labor movement that might be at home at this level so that we can ensure that the decision-making will affect all aspects of society. The main concern is that this advice will be handled by governments, the media of education, the media information, advice on the need for study and response in areas of greatest concern for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, e.g. on man - made, organization, transport, employment, state and development of life, monitor global climate change, and expand international relations to further the Agency's activities, monitor the follow-up of greenhouse gas emissions legislation, for how do we measure the effectiveness of the measures we have already agreed on? How do we appreciate the results of what is done? A major international problem is that we have agreed to a certain goal, but it is not achieved. Why can't they get caught? That's because they're not being followed. I think that everyone here must agree on that after we reached this wonderful agreement in Paris, but let the celebration work for one evening, for now more work is taking place, more work on applying what was agreed upon. It will then discuss that in the public field of public reporting on the work of the Council, information on the quantity, origin and development of greenhouse gas emissions, and will contribute to public awareness of climate change through education and communication. I think, Mr. President, in recent years, there's been a lot of changes in this discussion. The public has become far more aware, politicians have become far more aware of the need to deal with these issues. The result may be immense for us, this small northern nation, and we already see evidence that is directly related to greenhouse gas emissions, but there is an additive consequence of the same trend. We also see an increased extreme in northern weather. During the next decade, there is a forecast of a tremendous windtime. How will that affect our country? What has happened in this discussion is that she has left the edge and has become central to the decision - making process, but if we are going to be successful, it needs to be done even better. That's why I'm recommending it. We at the Council of the Green greens have already come up with a case, it was in the 133th legislature, and at the 135th legion council it was Kol Kolbrún Halldórsdóttir, ex-whiker. A member of Parliament, a 1st circuit overseer of similar matters. Since then, there has been significant international discussions, but the suggestions themselves are good. I hope that in view of the changes I believe to be at least understanding at the General for the case, I believe I sense that here has become a certain mental awakening, as in other places, to the point of the matter. The Environment and Transport Committee will remove this matter to cover the Senate after its discussion. In order to do our part, we need to take strong measures. There are proposals on the part of the government, but climate change will not be brought up with certain funding for certain initiatives. This will have to be a living part of our decision making for the next few years and decades. So that the decision - making process can become as important as it is that governments have a formalized position for the leading scientists, scholars in this field as well as for those involved in the decision - making process. Mr. President. I suggest after 1st. the proposal will be referred to. The environment and transport committees, and again express my hope that this will be one of the issues that will be resolved by the Council and approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u75	A respectable president. I bring here the bill to legalize the change of agricultural products on behalf of the Burts Company. The problem is tollovate and how it is assigned. At the 144th legislature, last spring, there was a valid change in the provision, prices, and sale of farms. This included a 3rd - mg change. 65. g. The law to dismiss the authority to use lots as agricultural schemes come out of the way. The evidence for the change made by more than a part of the employment committee was that the Court of Justice had fallen in Reykjavík, where it was concluded that a minister's choice of which method was applied according to 3 mg. 65. g. The law has an overexpensive taxation power that would be against the 40th degree. and 77th pars. constitution, i.e. It was considered contrary to the Constitution that a minister could choose whether tollocates would go on a foreign route or be cast in a coin toss. The changes made on the law last spring were put forward by a greater part of the employment committee as a change to the Sea Relation and Agriculture Minister's legislation on the change in production, prices and sale of farms, which was, in fact, a bill on a totally unrelated subject. The adjustment of the larger section submitted in June was not sent to comment because the case was in the final stages, I would like to say that it was infiltrated. A representative of the Bjarts'future on the Committee also made a move, but it was not approved at the spring convention. We now suggest a change to the point that if applications are moved through more import than tollovita, lots should be distributed and not available for access to import. We do not agree that it is acceptable to believe that tollovians are oered if the application is more import than tollovita, because the cost of exporting is dropped on consumers, it is available. This approach is not designed to compete in commerce. It may be noted that the Council of SEC report on a day-to-day competition showed that tollovates for importing meat, butter, and cheese were the right thing to do, but if this were not done, the Contestance Commission suggested that the distribution would be done without charge and that lots would be cast if extra food was applied. The same report shows that by aiming at the highest prices in tenders, such as would have been contributed to higher prices, the U.S. Various stakeholders, such as consumers, trade, service organization, and professional Fégé, have pointed out that the way out is working against the public interests, increases prices, and promotes competition. In demand beyond demand, consumers have considered lots to be a better way to handle distribution of tollgos than to offer them out, leaving the cost of consumers, as mentioned earlier. Casting lots is not a perfect method. The tolcots are limited, i.e. if there's a demand for extra supply. Various methods can be used. Somewhere, it is designed to go to some extent according to the size of the party at the market offering the product, and perhaps a coin toss on the part of the quatane. You can figure that out. But I always find it interesting when a business organization, service, employment drivers, and consumers all agree on something, I think people should try to save their ears. I think it's a serious offense to the employment committees last time we put this adjustment into the bill and it didn't have to be told. That is why we bring up this matter because we feel that it is very important to get into the discussion process. We believe that it is a step in getting rid of only the great conservation system we have in the agricultural system. The case then goes to the pro committee, and hopefully it'll get a quick, quick payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-02-72.u76	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a synopsis on the computer profile of a Senate document. The movers are the ones that say here, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, and why. The men of Bjöln the Leví of Gunnarsson, and Ásta Guðrún the daughter of Helgadóttir. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concluded to hide the President of the Generals in agreement with the Commission to order groups of work to offer proposals for the change to be made in Parliamentary documents to be published in the International Parliament, as shown by Article 90. Legalized by the General Assembly, No. 55/1991 will be published in computer formats so that laws, chapters in law, paragraphs, language, numbers, etc., and references to regulations, laws, decisions, judgments, and so on will be computerly distinguished. At the same time, the collection of laws will be updated in the same way. The crew will be appointed three agents, of which at least one legalist and one computer expert. The Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Committee to President agree on the order of the group. The group will be set up for May 1, 2016, and introduce the president of the Generals their proposals by the end of 2016. For a while, I've wondered how I should possibly explain this proposal in so - called human language. I dare say that this is probably one of the most difficult matters of Congress that have been seen here and that while I consider that computer - trained or computer - experienced men understand what this case is about and how important it is, it is often more than just explaining technical matters. It may be said that there are data on Congress already available in computerized formats. For example, it is possible to look up in computerized ways which are on the program, in which the committee, or in the Hall of Congress, who would vote, how, and in what language, can be looked up in a variety of such items. You can look up any comments that address certain matters electronically, etc. The above suggestions are to be tailored to the panels themselves when printed electronically, i.e. on the website, contains information that computers can use to read certain details of the Parliamentary documents such as articles, paragraphs, hearings, etc. The aim is that software can be created to make it easier not only for the General Work but also for the public and institutions around the world to monitor law change and to analyze ideas better. As I say, I've been thinking a little bit about how it's best to explain this. For example, if you're in accounting, numbers can be written in numbers. But if you write numbers in terms that are falling down and in different sexes, etc., you can see who you are, how hard it is for a calculator to understand. It takes much more power for computers to try to use some judgment to understand spoken language. The problem with Parliamentary documents when it comes to software is that they expect human judgment, a human interpretation that doesn't have access to computers, at least not well. I mean, there's an artificial phenomenon, but I don't think there's a good solution to this problem, so that doesn't have to be necessary. It's how the data is presented that matters. It is important that computer technology enables them to be developed to be treated by computers. An example of software that could be written relatively easily would be a software that was monitoring specific tracks. If you work all day with personal data, e.g. you want to know when there's a bill where you suggest a change in the protection law and you should be able to monitor it electronically. It is still impossible, at least only with some highly advanced artificial technology that would be much more expensive and really worse to solve this problem. Here it is suggested that a group be appointed to find out exactly how to implement it. Another example of something that should be done is automatically look up all references in e.g. Decisions or regulations. If in a song text or in a paper on some judgment issue a person, he or she has to look up this judgment by hand today. This process is not nearly as easy and as fast as possible if the panel documents themselves were computerized. For example, a simple term easily understood by a person is the 3rd proverb 17th paragraph. if you've had a number in a year or so. Those of us in law feel this is obvious, or many of them at least. However, there is a lot about how this is presented in the lyrics of the Law. Sometimes they say 15 c. fix a number, sometimes you'd say 15. ... ina law numbersomething, sometimes 15. in a general penal law number something. All this messes up computers. All of this is confusing things tremendously with computers. You don't have to do that. What this suggestion is designed to solve is that problem. We suggest that Congress documents be explained to computers so that programs can be created, that they can create very good software, that would help with the legislation and help identify Congress matters. It may be bad to remember much of the new disposal of natural protection laws, since there are certain misunderstandings in many society about exactly what has been changed and in what way. I don't mean to have a lot of issues about it, but it may not be surprising that when you make a bill for a change in the law that was accepted 2013, you'll be confused, even if you understand legal matters and are accustomed to disappearing in legal language. It could even be complicated by experienced lawyers. It's not supposed to be complicated. It should be perfectly obvious what is changed, it should be completely leveled what is discussed. It will be best with software that can understand such factors as decision, law, regulations, paragraphs, lawsuits, numbers, law, law, etc., computerized ways. There's not much more in itself that I can say this time to explain the matter, I think, except that I sincerely hope that the proposal will pass and then I can see that there will be a great improvement and an improvement in the procedure and the survival of the public to that process. Now I think of something else that should be done, and it is that someone in a town should be able to write a bill or read a bill without looking up the laws or Congress involved. For example, if it presents a bill that says 3rd. Section 8. Any law goes away, the subject has to look up that law. It is really not realistic today without artificial intelligence to arrange that the mouse can simply be placed over the text or something like that to see what is being removed. At times, a document states that one or another word is replaced by one word or another in some document somewhere. It should be obvious to the reader and to the public, to lawyers and members of the body, especially the effect of change and to what is being quoted. It's all very easy if Congress files are published in computer format. None of this is a complex problem in itself. The problem is that the data are not set out correctly. Another example that many recognize might explain is getting text as a picture. If you get a photo sent to Facebook, for example, that has text on it, but the format is so true that the complete document is an image, you can't select the text, you can only copy it and put it into a different document, but you can use some software that can detect fonts and the software is complex, can be expensive, and, of course, need to work. It is difficult when it comes to human affairs, such as language and all things that pertain to meaning and meaning. But that the text cannot be selected or repaired or replaced if it is in the form of a picture, is the result of the presentation of the material. On the other hand, if you visit a Web site as an example and select a text, you can copy it into another document, and this is because it is presented as a text rather than as a picture. The use of information is of enormous importance. That's what we propose, that the use of Congress documents will be greatly increased. I can see that this can take some time, with considerable handwork being done, but with this suggestion it is suggested to identify the project and figure out the best way to do this. I think if this went through it would make a lot better, even if it could be a little bit difficult to explain to all precisely on what basis. I especially look forward to seeing reviews of this matter in the hope that others will better get it into human affairs than they can see here. But to say, it's a very small matter that I can't imagine any man's being opposed.
