ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u1	Before we begin the program, the president would like to welcome the Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson's son and wish her a success in her work. In particular, the president would like to welcome you to the office of new Minister of Foreign Affairs, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u2	A meeting is about the setting up of the discussion, and it will last for two hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u3	A respectable president. I will explain the policy of the head of the Superintendent Party and the Independence Party that took over the state council meeting this afternoon. There was a brief change in government known and no need to be listed here. Under the unusual circumstances that were created and eventually led to the request of a prime minister, and their government is not much else that will be found in the social talk, and it can be difficult to look ahead. That is exactly what we need to keep looking ahead, to learn from what has happened, and to complete the important matters that have advanced. The earth continues to spin, and the government must perform vital tasks that do not allow for waiting. The government of Iceland will base its work on the Declaration of the Policy of the Government of Proclamation and the Independence Party of May 22, 2013. It says that the government's guide is improving the interests of the citizens of the country and the growth of employment with increased value in the interests of public interest. Economics in a broad sense are key issues of a new government. As the 2013 Declaration of policy, responsible economic management is essential to the well - being, intensive health and education systems, law enforcement and other basic services. In addition, discipline and balance in government matters play a key role in ensuring stability, lower growth, and low inflation. How's that come about? The answer is simple. It's done a hell of a job. It goes well to sea and country. The economy is flourishing, buying power grows rapidly, and inflation has been at the price of the Penitentiary Bank for over two years. A great deal of rest is on government funds, the debt of the state declines rapidly, and the foreign status of the nation's population has never been better. Never. This year's budget was covered with about 350 billion dollars. leftover. If there is one thing that best illustrates the success of the government, it is the source of pay. It has increased by 18% since May 2013, of which about 10% has been the last 12 months. This is a rare success in the international context, and there is also an expected increase of less than 10% in the current year. The 2013 state government put two issues first in its policy declaration, the correction of the secure housing bar, and the release of broken banks to facilitate the release of capital waste. The government successfully set off both of these issues. Correction was the answer to the public's strong plea for loss of capital loans because of the unique status that had already been borrowed at the same time as the loss of real estate value. The operation was successful, and taxation was paid at the bank's claimors through financial funds. A solution to the fragmented population will lead to some 500 billion dollars. A better position of state funds, as well as a variety of other positive national interests. No judicial hearings are being carried out or predictable against the State because of a solution to the fragmentation. Governments and businesses have been advanced because of their operations and the success of the people Buchheit Buuchys stated in the world's financial history alone. I'd like to stay on hold, this is the government's main mission. The main theme of that work has been to solve the country's financial and financial problems so that capital rejection can be done without unacceptable national and financial risks. The solution was to ensure that the Crown's gangs did not fall, that international commitments were respected, that there would be no lower access to foreign markets, and that there would be limited national risk. The solution that came last year is just what it was designed to solve the payment problem. It prevents the placards from breaking down and reducing the standard of living. The debt of the State is greatly decreasing, and the currency is growing. The country's remains are now the most beneficial place for over half a century, 50 years. However, the interests of the nation's farm are far more valuable than financial contributions. Bancing is the long - term guarantee of foreign funding, which allows companies to make easy access to foreign loans and to support the development of jobs. This positive effect on the economy has already shown increases in credit ratings and generally more confidence in the economy. This conclusion is successful for us Icelanders and is crucial to the economic future of the country. This route is much more favorable for Iceland than for the problems that could be stopped in 2012. Then there is the national benefit of the unattainable Icesave treaties - in 2009, in 2010, and in 2011. There is a clear estimate of the costs of the Icelandic taxpayers at the Icesave Convention adopted by the General Assembly in 2009. The rising cost of 2017,2024, would have studied 26 billion. every year, or a total of 208 billion. It is good to warm ourselves in the production of the government's five - year financial program that the state does not come up with $26 billion in foreign currency for growth to the British and Dutch each year for the next eight years. It was a time of evil. Their evil acts, however, are significant. Whether a business is in the procrastination, in rapid growth, or in full growth, it does not matter whether it is a business that is at the start of a business; its capital capital capital is a barrier to its growth and living in a foreign competition. Prices at markets due to tradition. So we have to use the opportunity now created to go to a springly highland invitation, and then get rid of individuals and businesses. That's the nation's biggest interest. Another important matter that must be discussed at the General Assembly is housing. Four basics on the housing agreements between the labour market partners are in the conniving treatment. From the reviews of stakeholders and senators'comments, however most people may feel that some changes are needed, they support the situation at the General Assembly. The problem of many tenants is especially due to the mismanagement of the bills and the hardships of the land's population, when a roof is above the head. The bills will solve the urgent need. They increase the number of options for housing, as it is necessary to support not only those wanting to have a home but also those who choose another arrangement. It's very positive to see the news that the object of the first buyer's apartment as the share of all the apartment buyers is getting bigger. Other matters relating to the housing market are well developed according to a report on the future housing projects. In addition, insurance prices are being worked in accordance with government policy. So everything is going to be a big, positive change in housing market. The improvements in the financial system and banking arrangements are closely related to this. The size of banks has become so limited that it restricts their sales. Selling a government's share in banks will take a long time, and life will not be on the move. When it comes to selling, the most important thing is to do it properly, as it was so successful by means of a coordinated solution to the worn - out operation. In addition, key questions need to be answered. Will the government intend for a scattered possession? Yes, distribution of property would be desirable. Will governments promote greater competition in the banking market? Yes, governments will need to consider ways to increase competition. Will governments employ themselves for the separation of business banking and investment banking? Potentially, if it proves to be likable and technical. Will Governments Unite Banks? Not likely, for this would hardly be compatible with the implementation of competitive behavior. We must answer these and other questions and must not be afraid to take the discussion at this point. Now is simply the time to take it. In addition to this, there is no social patience regarding errors in sales and registration. The pay matter and the phone business have caused shock. I understand that banks have come to a successful sale of many companies in recent years, a business has been sold in an open process without conflict and demand. Is it well, but there is simply no tolerance for mistakes and should not be. Warrant rules for arm - length policy prevent the administration of governments into matters like this, but such obligations are related to governments, members of Congress, and officials to investigate such matters. A respectable president. There is no question that good health care is vital to our nation. I believe that in society the importance of caring for the health system is settled. A recent collection of signatures reflects the desire of the citizens to reform. On the other hand, the way you stand up is important. The government has increased the financial support of a solidarity in all three of the budgets it has established. Of course, we will continue to set priorities for health care, as it has already been achieved to reduce financial debt and raise interest costs. But the government realizes that health - care challenges cannot be met with the increase in money alone. Effort must be made to maximise the use of capitals and to improve efficiency and quality. Clearly, the health system is a long - term work, and it will not be permanently solved during a single term. Good Icelanders. The government bases its policy on the 2013 forwarding Declaration of the Government and the 2013 Independence Class. The main focus will be on emissions of noise, economic stability, health and housing, especially young people's housing and insurance. Me and the Icelanders are in good standing. There are a lot of tracts. We have seen a revolution in the improved production of marine products, the structure of tourism has been unprecedented, opportunities to increase energy efficiency, and a large number of Icelandic companies in the international sector have done a great deal of good. In the future, what is important is the creation of something valuable. We create valuables in a number of ways, by increasing or improving production, and by reducing the cost or by dividing badly used enterprises for good employment. Increased valuables are essential for the growth of cohesion, stable employment, and the increase in the prosperity of the country. It actually claims itself, but it seems that there is always a need to reiterate the obvious fact. We cannot afford to see that valuable things are a blind eye. There are many opportunities, as I've traced them, and we have to make use of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u4	Good Icelanders. Clown breach has occurred in our community. There's been a call here for an immediate vote. How does the government react? It responds by switching chairs, but there is no change, no change in course, and no change in approach. We'll hear it from a new U.S.A. The prime minister to run on the same program as the remaining government was driving, not making any changes, and the reason that men don't trust in the election immediately is because they alone can take important matters to port. Let's just go over the issues as high as possible. Prime Minister mentioned. First of all, it's the code. The course that was being followed by the last government is being followed. It's cool with this course. All groups at the General Assembly continue with emissions. It's about the housing business. Who are the main sides of this government's housing and housing policy? Is that not the kind of independence people in this hall? There are no other classes to argue with that course. All classes, but the Independence Party could easily pass through here with a powerful housing package. Then take care of health care. There's a lot of agreement about them. To argue that these two political groups need to be on deck to achieve these developments is at best a delusion and a clot. What humans are doing here is doing everything they can to keep power. All of us need and long for calmness and stability in our lives and society. As the government has done, we are not able to find stability and stability by repeatedly driving a stream between the wealthier and the chemical memory. Rather, it is the policy of trying to create an even greater level of property and income that will create a calm and firmness in society. OECD has compiled a study and a report on how to expand the cookie in Britain by ensuring an increased equation and reducing class distinctions. The figure in Britain could be 20% larger if a person had ensured an increase in equations rather than the class distinctions known there. A respectable president. My dear Icelanders. Nor do people create calm, firmness by promoting the national sport that has become known in Iceland, always allowing certain groups to find themselves in some special position to be magnificent. We'll see it again and again. It can be concluded that the example is found in how resource distribution has taken place here on the country. Then we'll see it in business and in society. This doesn't make you steady and firm. This continues to fire here. We need much more to think that guidelines are clear, broad guidelines that all follow, including politicians, all of them. It's precognition and everything up on tables and transparency is the key to all decisions and measures we make. Good Icelanders. We have also seen in this matter that has been discussed in the past few days, causing the trust that has taken place between the politicians and the people in the country to the highest degree. Prior prime minister, recently in attendance, feels that there is nothing wrong with people living in a foreign country. Such attitudes do not create a calm, firm attitude. That attitude continues to fuel the anger of society and continues to fuel the global conflict. You see, we Icelanders live in a position where governments in the country think it's all right that a small group of people have most of the money, and they only carry it abroad, and they use sheep black and small and medium-sized companies to run the economy. This government also thinks it normal that while those with a large amount of money can store their money abroad, sheep blacks, small companies, and medium-sized companies are able to run their petals abroad. Of course, large companies work in an international environment and use other currency paid for it. But it is all right to convince others that we should continue to use the crown. The money policy here has been run, and no perspective has been made on how to make changes in the future. That is because under all of this, the view that there are two nations in the country, one that finances itself on international markets and others, i.e. The common people who have to finance themselves with a predator, an Icelandic inflation. That's what the top says. The prime minister in his talk that they are going to accept the insurance policy. Has anyone heard such jokes for a long time? Who have taken steps to say that insurance will not be removed? Isn't that a team of tops? Prime Minister, the Independence Party? What is the situation of prime minister when he claims that this is where insurance is to be handled? That it should continue to talk about it? Should this be on paper? They're not going to do anything. This view does not create a calm, firm attitude in society, to think that you can just stand here and say something, and then do something else altogether. We've had enough of that. Then I also have to mention health issues. It does not create a calm, firmness in our society to deal with matters that include prime minister, such as the last one, who decides that the best in the situation, when the health system has already been subjugated during this ideal period, is speaking to people who believe in it, as it happened between them. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, and Kári, the son of Stefánsson. It was a disgrace. It was not for a calm, firm spirit. What makes calm and firm is to place our arms around the trimetric, interpolitical group, making a long - term policy on how we build up our health system in harmony and harmony. Let us make up a health - care program where we have decided in what way we will finance and build a new land hospital, how we will ensure that we have a powerful national hospital, in what way we will ensure freedom of health rights. That's the job. Not to be cut off by those who have the opinion of control procedures. Good Icelanders. It also does not create a calm and firmness to step forward as a new prime minister did yesterday and tell us that only a few chairs should be replaced, but it should not change anything. It's okay for people to keep money in taxes, just if they give up. It's not enough for me. There's not enough for us in the United States, and I know there's not enough for any man in here either. We need more. So, as you and I in this room, we are required to agree with the call for elections immediately, walk out of here and get all new commissions, because here we need to create trust and confidence in our society.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u5	Mr. President. In the spring of 2013, when the head of the Foreign Legislature and Independence Party began its reign, it presented an introduction of a declaration of policy: The government will seek to activate the nation's controversies and to counteract the divisive and suspicions that have characterized Icelandic politics and discussions in society for some time. After the largest protests in Iceland and at the highest point. One former prime minister has decided to step aside with 10% trust, I believe that it is safe to say that this goal has not been successful. Then we can ask ourselves, " What confidence is the government that has taken over, the same categories, the Independence Party and the Foreign Party, enjoying not only here in Iceland but also abroad, where the eyes of the universe are on us and how we are going to deal with this serious matter, the serious news that has done to Iceland. Although I wish to be the highest. To my new office, a new prime minister feels that the head of the Specialist Party and the Independence Party has become like a party that has lasted too long, a party that was supposed to end at midnight but remains in the block; by 3:00, neighbors have called the cops. The people of the East are here, and please ask the government to leave and be announced for the election. Even some people at this party have called a car, they're starting to think about moving. They point to, for example, the whale. paritaprevir And Konráðsdóttir, the daughter of Congisdo, that all ministers with ties to their kin should resign. A former prime minister is required to resign from the council, says so. paritaprevir Höskuldur Þór Þórhallsson. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson points out that there is a supreme case. The Secretary of Economics and Economics is absolutely comparable to his own. We can conclude that he will then step aside like a dog. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson himself has done so. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir says he wants an election right away. Everybody knows the party's over. But the partyer goes on. He's going to play Wild Boys once more or maybe a few more times, sell a few banks, as I hear at the highest. Prime Minister, cancel the insurance policy, and do what these partyers feel they can do alone, eliminate a head that is supposed to be a parapolitic subject, and complete improvements in housing that have not actually been successful because the two government groups have failed to achieve it. They have not been able to negotiate the improvement in the housing system. Although I wish to be the highest. I am afraid that the prime minister will face a difficult assignment. In the spring of 2013, the independent party and the forwarding of the deportment government brought it into the hands of a community where the common people had shown a tremendously generous and self - sacrificing spirit in establishing society after the collapse of the economic crisis to lay the foundation of a brighter era. It was all there to establish health systems, education systems, welfare systems, all in order to renew the confidence of the public in politics. A significant change in the tax system had been made. Great success had been achieved in mastering government affairs. A great deal of work had been done to bring back employment. It was possible to move forward; the next steps in the restoration. We've also gone through the collapse that many of us believed would lead to greater trust in society's institutions, politics, democracy. We've held a national meeting, a research report, and an important discussion here at the General on how we should continue to build trust, to build on the values most important to the public in Iceland at the famous 2009 meeting; and that was honesty. The government promised everything beautiful. She was not just going to work for the sake of public interest, to activate the nation's cohesive forces, to counteract divisions and suspicions or political uncertainty; she was also going to be at a vast level of agreement in a labour market, to trust the foundation of welfare, to cherish those who are living in palaces, to name just a few. What remains of these goals, Mr. President? Or were they just misunderstandings like many other things? At least a few times, the new prime minister spoke of it yesterday, during an unprepared question period, that he had been misunderstood and followed in the footsteps of the former officer. A prime minister who was often misunderstood many times a day. You see, there was every premium for starting a major offense toward a better community. What, though, is the situation in the body of health care? 85,000 Icelanders have signed a challenge to spend more on health care. Research shows that the public wants to build public health systems. The government offers proposals to improve private operations in basic health care systems for themselves. That is the answer by governments to what the common people have often described in their polls. The tax system has been changed since the change in the first terms of a period in which it was determined that those who had most among their hands would take on greater burdens than those who had less to play. But this tax system rejected an independent party and a forwarding party and made it a priority to reduce the ability of a government fund to attack the important task of building up the welfare system. What was the priority of the independent party and the forwardings of the government? We remember all of it, it was to lower the hunting costs. Then it was decided not to extend the wealth tax. It was decided not to extend the energy tax. The number of steps taken in the step - change of the tax system was reduced, and the rate of distribution in just ways was reduced, and the tax was up against the will of one of the partyes. To whom did these tax changes come? Were they for the public? No, it was for the great deed. It was for the wing companies. It was for the rich. While some would like to call the new bandit government for fun, after an interesting press conference held by government officials here tonight at the General's Stair, I'm afraid that the name that will be stuck in this independent party government and the forwarding party is the government of rich people. I don't know how. The candidates of the forward party, often working on the left, have their names and their inheritance. The situation today, Mr. President, is that a small group of rich Icelanders have material possessions in tax seas, that a small group of Icelanders have created the circumstances where Iceland is known for the world's reputation to set up world record in setting up continents in tax seas confirms that in this country there are two nations; it is the Icelandic public who succeeded in the consequences of the crash, took on the load, sacrificed a number of things, and then this small group who had their safe haven. There are some capitalists, and there are ministers in the Iceland government. The government cannot ignore the lack of trust between officials and the public. I believe the government has lost an extraordinary opportunity to continue the building of Icelandic society and not only the opportunity to build trust between the political and the public of the country, it has completely destroyed the small trust that was present and also the trust we have gained in developing abroad after a collapse. They were expecting this government, which proved to be false. Therefore, I believe the public will need a new opportunity and a new commission for the generals. Because the most important task is to build trust in democracy in this country, democracy, the foundation of our community. All the important tasks that this government feels will be beyond the reach of can be no more important than building trust in democracy in this country. I believe it will be beyond the reach of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u6	A respectable president. Prime Minister has now explained the policy of the New Iceland Government, which took over this afternoon's council meeting. In recent times, events have been rapid and have created an uncertain situation that needed to be addressed. The independent group and the forwarding party will continue to be a member of the board, end-of-the-view of urgent affairs involving the Icelandic population and the entire public. The door stands to uncool the reduction of funds, to strengthen the health system, to increase the quality of the housing market, and to continue to trust other important infrastructures. The successful results of these projects create a further basis for improved living standards and strong welfare systems. Here before the council, there are a number of cases from every committee far away, and it is our opinion in the management section that the final payment for the council is a very important matter for the Icelanders. According to one estimate, the capital crisis does not divide the council into different groups. But when we introduced our plans late last year, which received due praise and support from Iceland, from the International Cash Fund, from food companies and others, the government was not satisfied. [[Up front.]] She said, "This is what we were always going to do. " At the same time, however, she said: " You're doing the wrong thing. You're giving off a discount. You're doing this. You're doing the other thing. There was no agreement on that subject during discussions at the council. So it is cheap to come now and say: Of course, we should just let a new government take over and finish this case, because experience shows that people always go to the same pits and try to do the best for themselves in a situation that comes up each time and does not look at the interests of the whole. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Now it's... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u7	...make up the solidarity now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u8	I'm referring to the fact that we've come up here and say that it's only natural to go to the election because of the great solidarity that is involved in the solution of the problem. The more close the discussion is, the last time the government set aside their solutions to the council table. She wasn't the one that humans shine in here. But the government has an open arm to the government's opposition, and it wants to support the solutions during birth and will appear on primes within a few weeks. [[Up front.]] Moreover, it is irresponsible to say that it is of no importance when governments are working to carry out an invitation for the birthday party today in May. That it just didn't matter that it was important to get out of the way, to give an election with all the effort that comes with it, and to upset the entire programme of the past. [[Up front.]] That is what a person must keep in mind. The policy of the government is to maintain economic stability and reduce the debt of the state. Thus both tax reductions and improved welfare services are created. A key factor is to continue to ensure that the population's standard of living is improved along with the improved supply of Kingdom funds. It speaks as if someone was left behind. The wealth of all Icelanders has grown in the time of this government. All of them. This year's historical increase has been seen in the financial gains. Remuneration has increased substantially and the circumstances we have created, and other situations that have played with us have guaranteed that higher rates beyond what is expected in general have paid for the greater purchases of the households. So we have come out of the crisis in such a way that the national product has come up with the highest credit for the collapse of the bank. Of course, the power of riches is the same as I have been referring to. During our annual meeting of the Secret Bank, I concluded that we have succeeded in restoring the economic system of our Icelanders to the point where the times have never been as bright as they are right now as we are in the longest consecutive economy of our Icelanders. The domestic debt has been rapidly dropping. They lower faster than any other country in the North. They're dropping faster in Iceland than in all of our control countries. The debt of the homes is reducing faster in Iceland under this government than in any other country. That's the situation. Business conditions are better, and inflation has been low. We have achieved this both through measures that initially were highly critical but that went 100%, a decline in the government's penalties for homes. The last payment was paid at the beginning of this year, and we have achieved this success by focusing on reducing taxes and expenses, reducing the loads of homes and employment. This has paid off to people and to their professional lives. The actions of the government have played a key role in this and are fully in harmony with what was said on these points, exactly these points, in the government covenant. We originally said that the economy was the largest project in the government. It is in the economy that Iceland and I stand out as different from those countries that have had to deal with difficulties in recent years. A respectable president. A dramatic change in the economy has occurred during recent losses, and this has gone faster than even the most optimistic people have had the courage to hope. It also counts looking at the position of the State Fund, to the position of the government. I've been here to direct my words to the position of the homes and the job. Consider, too, the situation of a government fund. During the first days of the government, we stopped the debt collection. I remember being here during the first days of a new election administration in 2013 and men grinned into the second mouth when I said we were both going to lower taxes and close the budget. The people told me before the election: The head of the Independence Party is irresponsible to promise taxes in the present - day situation. That's what they said. However, we did, and it has been found to produce the results. [[We'll see.]] A wealth of money fell to a government fund when the worn - out money paid the stability proposals. We have a budget that accounts for about 350 billion leftovers this year. That's the budget we agreed on right now a few months ago. That's the budget I introduced in the fall, which is the result of the government's priorities last year. 350 billion dollars left over. So the people here say that the government is not achieving success according to its policy. Those words judge themselves. The success of fallen financial companies has been achieved, and when their fragmentation has been completed, history is historic. He has no precedent in the world. The international experts involved said: This conclusion is unique. Condemned conclusion. That does not mean that we have solved all our jobs in the economic field. It will never be so that at the council we can make the message that the project has been completed. Not at all. We face great challenges. Since 2009, the state's investment levels have been kept too low. The result is from many sources such as the health condition of the road system, the lack of housing, the health issues. The requirement for increasing the support of important structures has been ongoing for the past few years. Nevertheless, it can be seen that much accumulated investment in the public and commercial sectors can result in a high level of tension in the economy in the event of a rapid reaction. We know that the result may be excessive inflation. We simply cannot take too much out of the economy at once. The long-term project and the answer to this position are therefore increasing the production and production capacity in the economy. Without increasing production, there will be no solid basis for continuing the commercial growth of the public and thus increasing prosperity in the country and also no reasonable basis for continuing the infrastructure. Tax disposal in 2015, tollification this year, and the next are important steps towards improving the requirements for production. A further example of a case we have to complete is the reduction of the insurance fee available to the council in the bill code. We must complete the reduction of the insurance fee at this council, from the middle of 2016, in good terms with the employment community and the entire labour market. [[Up front.]] This is an additional 0.34% reduction since 2014, but over the past few years we have achieved this reduction, and this will further improve the economic situation in the country, further increasing the competitiveness of the Icelandic economy. All of these factors in addition to the SALEK Conference are providing a stronger basis for national stability and improved quality of living in the coming years. Increasing innovation is an important requirement. I think we have one issue that we have agreed on in the Council since 2009. New creation, evolution, science, technological advances. These are areas that will determine the outcome for future generations. For the council, there is just one more bill on the matter that cannot wait. We're going to secure support with these companies. For the council, there is a bill for support in funding and management of innovation companies, which suggest changes in the taxation of individuals and companies such as tax pay on the stock market in this type of enterprise, not others. A taxation to foreign experts in order to get here, to attract people from all over the world, and to attract people from all over the world. Reduction of study and development costs. It's a way we've agreed on, but we suggest that we improve, make better, and secure by using Iceland's companies as a platform for research and development, but that doesn't build up jobs in other countries. [[Up front.]] There is more in this bill that has been called after. V.E.G. President. If cards are well kept, there will be considerable opportunity for the Icelandic nation to live in favor of future generations with subsidies on the debt of state funds. We can build up on the coming years of social infrastructure, and we can count on the basic services of the State on the very strong foundation of public funds. With such a firm foundation laid for an even more powerful and varied welfare community, there will be a great need to improve the welfare system and other opportunities to open up to individuals to find a way of success and intelligent direction for all. For the requirement to activate democracy. No one has to argue with me about the fact that we have to activate democracy in order to respond to the call for confidence in society. I've said that a dozen times. I called for elections during the last term, just for that purpose. I also gave evidence of distrust when the government received 98% of the people against me in votes to accept several hundred billion commitments to the Icelanders. [[Up front.]] Then I called for a vote. Many of those who have spoken here today will say that it is somehow quite different. [[Up front.]] But what we've done, and it hasn't been done yet, is shortening the season and giving an election campaign. [[Up front.]] That's what we did. Here, people can work out whether or not to vote at once. But this government is not dealing with whether it should activate democracy to deal with the situation because it is our opinion. It is our belief that democracy must be activated to cope with the situation. [[Up front.]] Let us not create some disagreement on this matter, even though we may disagree about whether this is the case in May, as many members of Congress may think, or whether it can happen in the fall. There may be differences, and we settled him here on a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u9	A respectable president. I don't really know where to begin. I think the situation is a lot of concern. The main players and doers feel that they have done nothing wrong. They are, in effect, filled with self - importance. I have not seen Witnesses repent. I haven't seen any apology. I wondered if these people can't see what they've done. Does it really feel that there was nothing here that caused this upset, the attention of the world press, and the nation's claim to elections at once? Is it really so that a former prime minister does not see how grossly wrong it is not to inform that his wife is a demanding member of the bank's swelling camp at the same time that he is working to rebuild these swollen ones? Of course, if that is the case, he is beyond recovery. Is it really so that these people feel that it is acceptable to keep money in taxes because they have been paid for that taxes? It's twisted. We're not supposed to approve a tax bee, dot. I expected a new prime minister to state that he would act, that he would say strongly, and declare that a new government was going to act in the matter, to fight tax frauds, to make sure that the government's funds were given to him. I could use some. I must say, a respectable president, that I have never felt that this government is very interested in combating tax fraud. I'd like to remind you about the social security conferences that answered the question and that it was so difficult. It's disappointing. It's soft and lack of interest. Then you brag about the correction. In the short future, we have repeatedly referred to and criticized the priorities of what we consider to be wrong. We need money on the health system. I would especially like to take up the college position. What is going on with the high school and the financial resources of high school? What's the highest. A minister of education doing so? I'm really worried about that situation. It is hardly necessary to discuss health care. We all know what the situation is there. No, let's pack 80. Millions of people in debt fallouts that we later randomly distribute into society to people who do not need it. That is not the proper priorities. Another is interesting in all that has come up, and we see that there is not one nation in the country. There are some, people, companies who can be involved abroad, taking advantage of another currency. But the same people continue to speak to the Icelandic crown, for it is so wonderful, but they do not use it themselves. What hypocrisy and twins are they? We have called for a better future than the government's opposing currency policies, and we have repeatedly done so. A currency policy is likely, then, that the common man uses the crown, and those who are better off in society go abroad and have dollars, euros, and so on. And even in taxes. This is a very strange, respectable president. A new government promises elections in the fall. I hear people in society say, "Wait, a promise of elections, is there anything to say? " Aren't these the same categories that promised that if they reached power, the people would have a vote on whether or not the parties should continue to be met with the European Union? They betrayed it as soon as they sat on the ministers' chairs. People don't even believe that they're going to have elections in the fall. I think that's all about the trust that this government has. It's nothing. They don't change a few people, then go on and don't even apologize. I say, where are the counselors and the helpers? Let's pretend you don't have it, but aren't there some people who can help you? No, they send unintelligible news announcements to the foreign press, and they do not serve as king or priest. It's like a charade. If you don't, you'll live in another world. This is sad. I can't get anything out of standing here and criticizing the government, but I'm being insulted by the Icelandic people. I expected more of you. I actually thought you guys had at least some people to consult with. You could afford it, those classes that have been around for 100 years, and that they probably have some big money somewhere, maybe somewhere in taxes. It's right below all the caves. We want the first election. We believe that the government now damaged the nation. She thanks herself for everything she has done, and that is what I have considered in a talk. I refer to my speech in the last kitchen day's talks where I say, so that I testify in myself, that it's lame when politicians have everything they can do but then when it's a financial crash or inflation, it's something else, outside, something they don't have. We know that the economy was taking over. It was all in the right direction. It was no crucial factor whether an independent party and an forward party would accept or any other category, the problems were in the administration process. So let us always stop speaking like no groups unless these two can guide the country. It's not like that. We've seen that. For the way they've dealt with this crisis, I say, " Thank Guð that something even greater and more serious was not happening. ' I don't trust these people to hold on to disaster, if that happens. A respectable president. I'm finished, but I have to say I'm really sad. I wish I could say I wished for this government to succeed, but I must say I wish it would be the first. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u10	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Men have cried out to Icesave from this council hall enough. The common people are well aware of the correction that has been called and the affairs of the worn - out people. The public knows and feels low inflation and low unemployment. Why, then, were the largest protests in Iceland on Monday? Is it because the State Radio is so incompetent? Is this because the people misunderstand the whole matter? No, people saw sparks of crash in politics, and the people said no. They didn't want the same situation. People don't want the attitude and the answers from the government, not just what. A senator and a former chief. Prime Minister, Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, as well as others, including the highest. Secretary of the budget, and now the highest. Prime Minister. It is simply not enough in Icelandic society to appeal to economics to quiet the public. People don't just want money and prosperity anymore, they want political reform, they want reform, democracies, world change for the better. It's been calling for a very long time. The people of the country themselves want to have a higher power over us during the council and in the government. It is our job to give it power. It is our responsibility, and that is how we shoulder our responsibility, by acknowledging and applying it. What has proved best in this case is that the government and its principal defenders seem to have learned nothing from this unless they should have hidden it better. V.E.G. From an advanced prime minister, it seems to have learned not to lose a cow in interviews; he has apologized only for making himself a joke. Others record defenses for the highest level. former prime minister. Others become moaning into leaders, critics, and Kingdom broadcasters. They are not apologized, neither do they foresee how they acted when that criticism and the questions were raised. It's completely alone, no matter how many people feel about the working environment around here in the spring and when the end of Congress draws near, this work environment becomes even more difficult than usual. It does not have a threat, it is just obvious facts, a respectable president. If there were no so - called apocalyptic tradition, even if it was not customary to delay matters and create pressures and negotiate a case at the end of the council, as it has been so long, there would be a risk of developing this tradition. As strange as it may sound to some people, the reason is perplexing. The government has simply revealed attitudes that require suspicion on the part of others, requiring that members of Congress and the general public and all interested persons pursue things even deeper than that, ask more difficult questions than usual, not accept the answers, and rather be suspicious of the answers received when asked or legitimate criticism. This will continue to be one of the government's problems of conjuring the issues she wants to come through at the time remaining of this terms, however far as it will be. All factors involved in emissions measures will now be more suspicious than they would otherwise have to be. And there are very legitimate and legitimate reasons for the suspicion, resulting from the behavior, the answers, and the attitudes that have been revealed from the highest point of view. A government on this whole matter. It is legitimate and essential to suspicion. Of course she'll get in the way. This government is a part of the challenge of bringing these issues through, contrary to what it itself claims. I emphasize that this is independent of the players, regardless of the characters in this case. These are just the circumstances that we now live in. Distrust exists, suspicion is legitimate and necessary - and certainly there is. And unfortunately, you have to say, "I'm glad you're doing it. The inadequacies of the government and its views on this matter get in the way, in contrast with what it claims. If the government itself values the project more than its own authority, it will sacrifice its own authority for its projects. It seems to be once again the other way around.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u11	A respectable president. The good people of the country. The last days and weeks have been difficult. The demand for change, change of practice, altered Icelandic society, is loud: An election immediately. So we here have to answer. Yesterday, a good woman told me that she had been very disappointed that I chose to remain in power instead of wanting to interrupt an assembly and announce an election. That I could have even strengthened my position by declaring that I should vote immediately. And why shouldn't I? Why don't you just stop and start your campaign immediately? My answer is the same thing I've been urging me to do all this terms. It is the people who ask for help to secure their homes. The young man who lives on the street and stays with his friends' parents, a single father who lives in a ten - square - foot room with a constant mouse walk and cannot invite her children to visit him, the young student who sees that he will ever be able to afford a down payment in a small apartment, let alone get into the student parks he rents, the older woman of the disability that was forced to move in to his daughter since she could not afford her apartment. This is what keeps encouraging me. Almost every day, I receive phone calls, messages, e - mails from people, ordinary Icelandic people, who have housing problems. Their problem must be resolved as one of the key issues of this council. The sooner we can complete that assignment, the sooner we can choose. We're very far along. The council already has four basics from me about the changed housing systems. All of these will make a big difference, working closely and hard to cooperate with the labour market partners and, especially, the labor movement and the Union. They are aimed at strengthening the tenet by means of a new social housing system or a so - called public apartments, a new housing system for tenants, and a significant change in rents and housing laws. The special policy is and will continue to be the key theme of the Icelandic housing market. Thus, much work has been worked at the Board of Directors for the next step, of work that cannot and cannot be wasted, in support of the first buyers, the citizens of the country, and how we release from the infamous prices of property loans. Other matters I'd like to mention are changes in your social security and your maternity. At last, hard work offers suggestions on these big and important systems. However, there is no agreement on the suggestions. However, the most consistent changes are for the elderly, for the subsidies, for the increase in pensioning age, and for the flexible retirement. There is, however, greater disagreement on the disability improving system. Everyone also agrees on the importance of rebuilding the birthworm system. I hope we can get together on that, control, and government, hopefully we can finish these important matters, but we just have to find out. The discussion has repeatedly stated that there may be a possibility that there may be a greater solidarity in this priority within the government position than in the board of directors. The fact is, when I arrived at the Ministry, there were no basics on the matter of housing. Things had to be worked from the foundation on a great deal of close cooperation with the labor movement, rural areas, and stakeholders, and a deal was reached. Now we have only the finish line. The bills have come out. Their importance will not be questioned by the people of the country, and we are to make the big words of national interests and national agreements a reality, and we are to deal with these matters. In it I rely on the good will of all the senators. We're hurting. The people are hurt. However, the little trust that had been built since collapse collapsed, and the project will soon have to be built up. For example, we can do this by cooperating to help the homes to get a roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u12	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. It is strange to be here discussing the declaration of the Government of Sigurding Sigurður of Jóhannsson, where nothing new is declared. Here again, we will discuss the same porridge in the same bowl. V.E.G. Prime Minister listed matters that the administrative body intends to do. None of these cases specifically call for the head of a forward-class and an independent party. In fact, I believe that they are the very best city in the hands of the United States and the government. It is spoken of as a removal of the currency registers and the currency exports that stand in front of doors are prepared at the desk at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. Of course not. Happily, this process is directed by specialists in the Secret Bank and in the councilhouses. It is, in fact, highly suspicious of the emphasis laid on the coming of politicians from the camp of the Independence Party and the forwarding party to the release of currency wastes. In fact, in view of the past week, all the occurrences of the non - Israelite currency and crowns are suspicious. The problems facing housing will be solved only by government visitors. It is the most important housing support to those who have been mentioned and that there is equal support to those wanting to own, rent, or choose to be in a social structure. The supply of good housing must be greatly increased. The main obstacle to the case of the social and housing minister is that the Independence Party does not support them. The sooner housing gets out of the government, the better. Health issues are referred to as issues that need the longest resort to the rich people, although the common people agree that they are not meant to be there at all. 85,000 people have called for other emphasis, requiring extra money for health care. This has been answered by presenting three clinics in the capital area and by presenting changes in health care costs, which are expected, not to increase the amount of money, but to a different kind of price. Both are unacceptable, and in no way meet the demands of the common people. This is not to reduce the expense of patients in health care but to create a new retail. Today, serious individuals need to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars of their own pockets, and long - suffering sufferers pay a substantial portion of their monthly allowances for health care. Excessive remuneration will force them to escape necessary health care because of costs. This must be changed if the Icelandic health system is to be used for everyone. During the past three years, the cost to patients in the health system has increased to twice as much. Today, the home represents about 20% of all medical expenses, or about 35 billion dollars. every year. The patient's appearance is accompanied by the risk of too long going to the doctor. There is a greater need for taxation and serious, social, and health benefits. Health services should be free of charge for all. Only in this way will the services be available to all Icelanders. This will have been a means of saving long - term government funds and improving the security and economic well - being of the households of the country. In addition to accepting patient payment, it is vital that we create the National Hospitals'proper circumstances and health care throughout the country. A practical schedule for the development of nursing homes is also needed. I agree with a greater proportion of the country that the health system should be the highest level in public management. More urgent matters need access to peers. For example, the ideals of the elderly and the desperate are to be handled, the children's families should have the same support as those of other countries of the north, and the birthworm needs to be extended for 12 months. Good access to education for everyone is fundamental. The process has to be completed during the last terms to negotiate a new constitution and put in a new constitution for the nation. There is no chance that this will happen to the government of those classes that now hang like dogs on the red of the selection. We also desperately need a realistic structure and financial system that suits the needs of the people and their companies. More important, direct income demand of all nation's resources and the share of rural society in resource income is a requirement. None of these matters are worthy of this new government. The rich people's government cannot be trusted with big issues, since it uses positive economics to increase division in the land and inequities. She's full of trust. She needs to get out of the way now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u13	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. The government that has now been restored can become nothing more than a compromise. The public's insistence is that an assembly be breached immediately and that a democratic election be carried out. The present administrative body is out of confidence and history of past days, more than anything else, shows that the incompetentness of the present administration parties in dealing with the conduct and conduct of politicians from their own ranks, who have had money in tax seas and have kept it secret to Congress and nation, is absolute. Morally, this is wrong, but it is also contrary to the interests of the public in the country, and it reveals a great double standard for the general public in the country and for social responsibility and has caused complete trust in Congress and nation. On the contrary, those who have expressed themselves on the property of high officials of foreign society have been able to protect it by any means until the last minute. Following the deportation of an advanced prime minister, no one has reason to show repentance and acknowledge that something was wrong with taking the money away and not participating in social building. All nations fight taxes, but Icelandic rulers stick their heads in the sand and feel that nothing is wrong with low taxes and taxes, for somewhere the money has to be, like the current highest level. During the days, the prime minister came up with such taste. Because of the research process and the exposure of unions in the tax industry and after a great protest and pressure from the public, the government opposition and the global press, officials were forced to sacrifice prime ministers, and they now think that by Minister exchange it all has become whitewashed and that the powers can continue to be held as if nothing ever happened and run their case through with a solid part of it, as has been repeated so often. Well, what arrogance was expressed in the highest court. Secretary of finance earlier. It was not as if he were calling for some solidarity with the opposition to government in matters ahead of him, as if his statement was about whether an election is to take place in the fall. No, things don't work like that on the island. There is a great lack of confidence in the entire government, which is too late to bring up, and other ministers have been involved with the tax industry, as the people know. The amazing events of the past few days and weeks show how important good researchers, such as Jóhannes Kristjánsson, are for democratic speech in society. BROV, international journalists as foreign and other media that have come to the fore in tax industry are to be honored. Shows this matter well how important it is to strengthen and promote the independence of the State TV news agency and to study in general for democracies and public interests in the country. The government believes that she is essential and that she has to complete such urgent tasks that she cannot leave at once, for the first time in the fall, if the government's position is going to cooperate with the completion of her case log -- well, here, the subject log of hers, which is pretty elegant. It is also surprising that in those three years, she did not get more done than she did. Now, under these circumstances, she's going to turn everything over and keep the government on her thumbs, and everyone's supposed to be happy because it's such a great government - or the other. I think people should be ashamed of such arrogance toward their people at this crucial time. As I'm saying, the most direct step is to go to election now and that a new government with a new commission is going on with the future projects that are certainly many and urgent. The banning work that began during the last term is well under way, and no member of the council is going to work against the work that has started. It will not be damaged if it becomes a government exchange. This new government will do no good. Iceland's reputation and credibility within a foreign country have been seriously damaged, and only democratic elections can do harm to them. The foreign press says that people want to get rid of the government parties and that they've lost the trust of the public. That's exactly what food is, and no Ministerhrering will save it. A powerful objection and the sense of justice by the public shows that he wants something else and everything else. This government is not on some thrones, its time has passed, and there is no demand for it except for power - hungry politicians who do not know the time of their visit. The government's supposed to leave immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u14	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. I think that if everything is fair and everyone looks at things with them glasses, no one, not even in this room, would argue that the government has been a success. I think we'll find it on our own. Most of us are doing better now than in 2013 when we accepted. It is not only the government, but we have been working on and successfully rejecting many of the most important issues. I don't think anyone can argue, and nobody disagrees that events in these last days have been difficult. Events of the last days have disappointed us, events of the last days are not designed to bring peace and harmony to the community. But it is at such times that the way you react is of utmost importance. I respect people who don't like these events. I respect that this is not where we want to be. I'll be the first to admit it. I find it very boring and very difficult to look back here in the event that there is a rift in the country. The truth was, I hoped we were in another place and a much better place. The question, though, is also: How do we react to such situations? There are various ways in this situation, and I think they're all relatively bad. The conclusions of the government, the government's parties, were to respond to the democracy, respond to the people's calls, in such a way as to speed up elections. Prime Minister responded by leaving the Ministry of Presidency, and we decided to continue the government cooperation that we have worked happily together for the last three years and to speed off elections to autumn. Then they ask: Why not make an election immediately? Then I call out that we all look at it together out of responsibility and fairness. It is not true that with all the issues listed on the drawing table, these issues, of course, in a special category, do not matter how they will be resolved. I think deep down, we all know that. There are also other issues in the lake that I don't think will be an indiscriminate political conflict, but it's important to end before we continue because it is simply better for an Icelandic nation. I don't think any of us are supposed to take this position and think it out of our own interests. That is where humans first become irresponsible. I can say that we can't all agree on this, but I think we all have -- and that's what I've done, and we've been looking for - to be guided by total interests. That is why we want to continue to work, so we here conclude that we will choose in the fall when certain matters are over. I'd like to call the government a total of how we're going to do this in the most reasonable way, including Because it is responsible for the way we set an example and work here together. In recent years, we have not been particularly good at it. As I say, I thought we were improving our advice, but there's a setback. I was at a New World Congress yesterday. In recent years, innovation has grown, prospered, and thrived here as never before. We in this government and those in the government in the past have worked to improve that environment. [[The president calls.]] It's for example on the list to finish it, but what we're going to learn from the innovations is teamwork, get together on this project, and when we're wrong, let's learn from them. I wish we could do that right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u15	A respectable president. We have a new government. Actually, she's just like the one who was here yesterday, except for one change, one's gone and another's here. First, I'd like to invite Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir, new highest. Secretary of state, welcome to duty. May she succeed at all her jobs for Iceland. One's gone, the others are all waiting. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, has resigned from his office as minister. In fact, he has done so without any explanation. He has been past the issue, laying down all the cards on the table with honesty and humility. He just hasn't. However, it is not a secret that his resignation was required in such a strong way by the nation that he finally left behind. The events of the past few days have carried so much wonder that once you sit down and think back, it bothers you how many questions still remain to ask. It bothers you how many questions about all these corruption issues, both the highest. The last prime minister, and the second minister, remaineth. We will demand answers. We will demand honesty. Otherwise, the stability in this country that is so important to us cannot be guaranteed. Confidence in politics and politics is essential to economic stability, the absolute need for the welfare of the nation. The premise is that they can have confidence in the representatives they have chosen for this council. What was the family of prime minister doing with a tax company? What do these societies do? This is quite clear, a tax officer offers secrets and taxes lower than those found in this country, lower taxes than the rest of the provisional prime minister and his government all announces to all the rest to pay in this country. The word on the Panamas has shown so clear and crystal clear that there are different guidelines depending on who you are in our community. Most people in the bank have not experienced the fact that their agent at the bank asks them if they are not tailored to store their holiday account in Tortoli. It has been said that there was some sort of counselor in the bank who set up a society like this, just in the absence of their knowledge. Many people have, in effect, been surprised. That's how you get to the highest. The secretary of finance has experienced this. But how is that, could it not be purchased in Dubai without going through a foreign society? I remember how I could transfer my summer salary to Nordea Bank, Sweden, when I studied there. Was it different with Dubai? Didn't the U.S. banks be able to transfer it? I'm just asking. I'd have to understand this a little bit better, but the answers and apologys have given way. Mr. President. One's gone, and the others are all waiting. And what have they done? Two of them have also had a partner in a tax crisis. Everyone has the Ministers, at least In the last days, we know how things are. Still, everyone claims to have confidence in the advanced prime minister. I don't trust a government like that. I don't trust people who have this food. At best, it's either a bunch of baloney with or a little silly. Neither of us is in charge of an entire country. V.E.G. The new prime minister and the highest. Secretary of finance insists that after all this, it is most important that they themselves continue to steer the boat, for otherwise things will just go wrong. The fact is, this one has already suffered shipwreck. This crazy reality scares me, that they can't see it. The greatness is so great that it borders on madness, the addiction to power, that the appearance and reputation of the international country are irrelevant. The people will not be offered this. This arrogance of these government officials will bring them to their ruin. I finish this speech with the words that we know that pride is next to a fall, and that is what happens next.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to start by adjusting words to the highest degree. The prime minister who recently said that we are now in the longest economic season of the history of Iceland. It's simply not right. The longest economic growth in Iceland began 1994 and ended in 2008. That's 14 years. It's just a little awkward, like the trouble going on over the last few days. They may not know, so I just wanted to share it with them. The longest economic growth period was between 1994 and 2008, that's 14 years, it's only longer than 2012 to 2016, just to be clear. On this tragic day for the nation of Iceland and the honour of the Generals, I'd like to say a few words here, with the permission of a president, but not too many of them. I'd like to quote the noise: Unused Man The Mindful of All Non-quenching friends. All right, they'll find is that a council is coming. that he has a handful of leaders. I have nothing more to say to this government except what will be discussed below, distrust of the present government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u17	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. After the political turmoil of the last days, political stability has developed in the land. The political groups have united in continuing to work on their good works with strength and determination. Our whole goal is to create a basis for continued prosperity in Iceland. I am taking my first step to the office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and accepting the good estate of my predecessor. My work is aimed at continuing to work on the solid foundation that he has created. In this context, I would like to begin with some factors in particular. For an Icelandic national farm that builds prosperity in exporting goods, intelligence, and culture, local markets are very important. In accordance with the government's declaration of policy, I will use myself for a more intensive interest in Iceland and a continuing application to a new market, especially in the new market. In this way, we will create greater opportunities for a powerful Icelandic career. The reputation of a nation is one of a number, and it is important to stress that Iceland has an important international voice. We speak for democracies, human rights, equality and business freedom. It is very important that we protect Iceland's reputation and the values we stand for as a society. The storm that has raged here in these last days has certainly directed toward Iceland's reputation. My Ministry is to analyze the impact of the existing foreign coverage, and the work is always going on. It is important to evaluate the harmfulness of the discussion and to respond appropriately. Actually, the way Iceland was the first victim of the global financial crisis that raged over 2008 and 2009, we have been in the line of fire now. It is important to convey all information through careful management and firmness. My Ministry will contribute everything to their affairs, and we will not slacken the hand of those things. A respectable president. The European Safety Environment is at a critical point. In our immediate environment, we face serious challenges. The recent losses have been ongoing in our neighboring countries, and it is very important that Iceland continues to contribute to the security and defences of the country. For the General Assembly, we have a national security policy planned for Iceland. This is a turning point, and I think it is very important to make peace, and it can be taken care of as soon as possible. A respectable president. My dear Icelanders. In recent years, economic success has been greatly achieved. That journey is not completed, and it is vital that we continue to do good work. Together, we will continue to provide the basis for the nation's growth and growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u18	A respectable president. The good people of the country. The government of Sigurður Ingi son of Jóhannsson succeeded yesterday, April 7. How important it is that she succeeds in her work, in the interests of all of us! Wetness was in the air, but a little windy. There are some things in the environment that suggest positive drawings for this new government. Sitting with the highest. Secretary of State is more of a part of women for the forward party. It's the first time. For me, for as long as half a century, this situation has been involved in politics and has had to fight within a party and out of the political progress of women, it is a source of great joy. A new government has to face many challenges. We have been given the three h-indicators primarily, that we want to help decommission, housing reforms, and the health system. The candidates have already met several challenges. At the beginning of the week, there was a requirement, the week has not passed, that prime minister will be hurriedly elected, and that an outside party be accepted into the government. It's all gone now. It is therefore painful to hear at the Council that at the same time you are expected to change and act in other directions. It reminds me of foul and demanding children. But let's not stay with the past week or the past. We look to the future. I would like to step aside from the environmental issues I consider to be matters of the matter, especially in the future. This group of subjects involves all, a language class that also involves the world's economic affairs. They are also very important in foreign affairs. No person, home, or company can afford to look at them in a variety of ways, wherever they live. When I took this office, I chose two very tender words, and the youth would say, "I am involved. " Yet, these two old words contain much. They've been a password for me at the Ministry as I planned. They are very relevant when we consider the climate as well as the natural world, which is true in all of life, and they have come back into effect. We left those values. We forgot them. It's been a guide through the centuries in Iceland to make use of things, to make good use of what we have, to do well, to take care of everything, to take care of nature, financial matters, just to take care of things that have real meaning in life. We at the Environment Ministry have been progressively working on creating long-term programmes to develop policy development. We've put up a plan for the future. Here, the General has approved the infrastructure as well as the national planning policy. Both elements look forward to the future. I am grateful for this because it helps us to have clear direction and perspective and to choose the task manager regarding both of these projects. As for the national planning policy, I would like to say that there is also a great deal of work there in planning the central highlands that take over, roads, and buildings as well as building tourism workers. I also want to guess what has long been debated about here, the work of the project management on the protection and efficiency of this country's presentation far and wide. It is a matter of utmost effort. No other comment can be made that at the meeting in Harpa on that controversial matter, it was handled in a more objective way. The work at the Ministry is of a wide variety of ways, variety, and pleasures, and all in the house sense a growing interest in the language group. We are working with the Office of the Ministry to strengthen and promote the work, integrating projects, and promoting unity. I sincerely hope that the Council will cover summer's license to get them through and do so in the interest of nature, which we all want to protect, from shore to mountains.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u19	Mr. President. At the beginning of my talk, I want to make the most of it. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his early virgin speech, gives evidence of a more professional view of the work ahead of a new government to heal the wounds that the old leave behind, but I marked with some who have spoken from the highest degree. Governments. I know she sails into an environment where there are people who don't respond to wounds or die, so she has a lot of support from there. Yes, it is true that I thought her speech was rich and better than many others. V.E.G. Secretary of State said there was a storm. How true that is! Last week there was a political and administrative crisis that I can't remember has gone deeper in the past 40 years. For two days it has not been known whether there was a prime minister or who it was, luckily, has been able to remedy the crisis, and the land is finally in control. It doesn't change that it was the highest. A government that led them to a crisis over the land. Likewise, it brought about something less bad in the country, and it was a disturbance of our reputation and credibility as a nation. Icelanders are ridiculed by ridicule and ridicule on the media front pages for what appears to be the appearance of the world around them to have taken advantage of legal instruments to get the money of an island of some sort. This is part of what we have to deal with. Mr. President. I've thought that none of them, if considered to be the highest. Secretary of state, in effect, killed a finger on this problem. The problem is, of course, that we need to create a new community covenant that needs to be based on honesty, sincerity, equality, and equality. I have to say the highest. To my credit, last year of his office, I was impressed by the fact that he understood this. There I felt that the humility needed to help us carry out this work as a team. I'm the opinion, as everyone knows, that I think it would have been best in this situation to do so at the moment. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir declared that she was willing, as a boy. paritaprevir At Cast Light yesterday, Brá Consley's beloved Konráðsdóttir declared that her will was as an advanced prime minister. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, also declared that he wanted, i.e. that an immediate election would be followed. That is what would have been enough to lay the foundation for a new community covenant. Then I would have been prepared with all the council members of the government to handle the two jobs, and only two, who are extremely urgent in the community, I agree with it with the highest degree. Prime Minister. One of these works is setting up a legal system that enables us to go to an auction on the Offland plains. The second project, however, focuses on the influx of a new continent. One of the things I think is very important, and neither the highest. Of course, the secretary of finance or prime minister was killed by a court order to the Federal Bank that somehow he could block inflows due to growth trading. This is two things we would have had to attack. It doesn't matter, Mr. President, that I've been able to cooperate with the highest level. The prime minister of both sides of the government line, and he has shown me to be a trustworthy and honest man in the field we meet almost every moment, and I will not hide it. Of those on his side, I believe he is the best candidate for the office of prime minister. But I would have wished that he would do a short stop in that office and have joined the rest of us in trying to make the voices of the people sound and let the people try in their own way, by setting up democracy, to establish the peace of the highest order. Prime Minister spoke of yesterday. One was all that was missing in his speech and the highest. The minister of finance, and this is the cause of the great events that took place here, representing the failure of trust to the highest degree. The minister of finance described a volcanic eruption last night, which is that we live in a position where part of the nation, or group, uses legal instruments to take away their money on an African island where it is stored. We know that the main purpose may be two, though not all take advantage of it. First, it is to reduce paying taxes to society and, on the other hand, to hide property. We need to deal with it. Nowhere was a talk spoken at the highest. First, the minister of finance or prime minister that there is a basis or second, for action. I believe we have in the first place, and is prepared to cooperate with the highest degree. Prime Minister, about to map these belongings. On television, an average of 10% of European property was found in such shelters. If we assume that there may be less money in Iceland, perhaps 8%, that still means that 600 billion of Icelandic possessions are hidden in taxes. [[The president calls.]] We have to get on this. Secondly, it takes the highest. The prime minister is joining us to inform the Icelanders of such national property and to be among the demands. [[The president calls.]] Third, the highest. Prime Minister to join us in order to forbid the Icelanders to own bills in the islands of the country, in tax paradises, that do not meet the information obligations of OECD. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It turns out that there are four such countries. Two of them own 800 such accounts. [[The president calls.]] This is what I am prepared to come together at the highest level. Prime Minister and support him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u20	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. V.E.G. The prime minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson has now given us his conference and reviews the basic policy of his government. It's not surprising, but the policy is to continue in the same course as the government was on a week ago, as if nothing ever happened. However, the result of this government development is remarkable that everyone can see how weak it is. So weak that since her formation, she has been on a constant retreat. This was one of the first findings at a press conference at the time when it was finally found out who would take over the Ministry of Presidency that it would only work in the fall. Since then, with the continuous messages of dissension from opposing officials, anyone wants to see is confronted with a divisive attitude. The government is trying to endure. Not because it has something to do with it, but because she is confident that she will not face the decision of the voters immediately and hope that it will lessen the anger of society. To be optimistic about this new government, it is certainly some progress from the previous that the number of partners associated with African society has fallen by 33%. That, however, is by no means an acceptable conclusion. It has been observed repeatedly at the highest rate. Prime Minister as well as the highest. Secretary of the economy that they don't feel that people put their possessions into companies in under taxes, another name tax cover, under taxes paid by them. The problem, however, is similar to the fact that a tax investigator has repeatedly pointed out that tax rights cannot be verified. Taxation, on the other hand, is the key to the well - being and balance of taxes. Taxation is essential to the well - being of a community. In contrast, tax cover undermines well - being and reduces equations. If everyone would groan over their money and put them in a tax field, there would be no welfare community. This is the point. We in the left movement have always spoken in agreement, well - being, and thus never been shy about talking to a tax collector. Our goal is and has always been to create a society in which all contribute according to their abilities and reap according to their needs. That is why when all the richest in society fail to pay their taxes to society. This is not to be tolerated, and we, the elected representatives of the nation, should always be leading in that discussion. If there are legal gaps that need to be stopped so that the state doesn't get paid by taxes, we should improve them. A government that operates under these circumstances should, of course, keep it on its policy list. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The prime minister does not even comment on this in his policy speech. Among other things, it seems that there is no desire to review the tax issues, to study who are being influenced by taxes, and how they do so, is the reason why we must choose immediately and get into the power of people who are interested and ambitious so that we can trust our welfare community, where everyone can have that good regardless of income or otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u21	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. You feel a little bit like you're trying to tell someone that she's got some really big sweets on her pants, and in your crotch, you have to go home and change your pants, but the person just says, "No, they're really good pants, and I'm great, and it can't be that there's a seam. That's it. It's just some discussion where it's like we're not really understanding each other. There's no debate that there are important projects ahead of us. There are many good people in this body hall and in the society that can meet these challenges. Some of us agree, others don't. The issue here is whether it's serious enough to produce the highest level. The prime minister was advised to sit on both sides in one of the greatest interests of the nation, which is the development of the old ones. He concealed that his family and himself over a period of time were demanding substantial amounts of money in the old banks. The question is: Is this okay? Will no one say on the side of the government: Of course, this is not all right and is likely to be about 2.g. Governmental law and, obviously, the code of ethics that I was reading, says that any personal interests that might affect their work are to be reported. I was looking for the Independence Party code, but I couldn't find them. Is it okay to be here at a Senate Hall, arguing about the currency and merely show up with the presumptuousness of our arguments that would take up another currency and then have their own family money in another coin? Maybe it's okay to do that, but at least tell them, because it now has a significant significance in this discussion. Is that not hypocrisy? Doesn't anyone in the board agree? Is that okay? Is it okay to have money in taxes only if you pay taxes? There's no way to verify whether people who have money in the tax industry give up taxes. Do we want - and this is an urgent question that the board of directors will have at this point to answer - that all Icelanders who have money would keep it in Tortula? Would it be a good community? Don't politicians have to set the example first? Is this the example? It is an amazing thing for a new government not to answer that question but, rather, to suggest that it is in order. Can we be happy to have a minister of finance in the country who supervises a tax system that finds this acceptable? My fellow Americans. It's so obvious. It's so tragic that a government that's going to work here and manage things doesn't realize this, and not just that, but that's the case that's worn on the table: No, no, it happened there something small, but we're just so great that it would be very dangerous if we were to leave. But just that they don't get the obvious answers to these questions is, in itself, reasoning that they are not great. Obviously, they're not great. Good people everywhere, but just not great. They are not necessary to complete the work ahead of them. Just a scenario, the whole mess of society over the last few days, on the orders of an isolated government, and the present government hasn't apologized, and all that mess is also a reason that, of course, these people are not great and not essential to complete the work that lies ahead of them. There are many examples here, such as the need for a restoration of the birthworm system; there is one argument from the highest level. Secretary of society and housing. But what did people do at the beginning of the season? They changed the birth Orc system and eliminated laws that extended the birth Orc. So the government has not told us what she wants to do with the birthworm. You want to blow into something new. Was it not the government's first mission to give up such efforts? So the government hasn't given us its mind in this regard? You're talking about removing your head. Then let's get one thing straight. It's been a perfect agreement, among most of Iceland's political parties, how to eliminate it. It is based, among other things, on extensive and important laws during the last term. I've had that assignment all together so that it has delayed the process that there was a disagreement between the government groups at the same time. It was quite possible at the beginning of the season that the selected route could be successful. Now I wondered, because there were certain members of the board of directors who wanted to go on a trip that would have benefited those Icelanders who have foreign requirements on the banks. Had not been important to know at that point to the highest. The prime minister was a demands on the banks of foreign demands? This is a far cry from the fact that humans do not experience it as an absolute violation of all natural laws and regulations on how to deal with such a problem. But what is repentance? What does the government have to do with it? What's going on here? Is this a new government? Is it? Is there a policy statement? I haven't seen a policy statement. I've already looked online. Is it on Tortula, the Declaration of Policy? Or where is the declaration of policy? There's been things here that call for a clear statement about what you're going to do here on certain issues, how you're going to answer certain questions, and you're just going to point to an old water policy statement from Saturday's 2013. No new declaration of policy. Have the pack members asked if this government should be established at this dramatic point in Iceland? It's in both categories, the Independence Party is supposed to ask its party administration if it should start a government, the forwarding party is supposed to ask the central government. Is that it? Has the party's approval been received for that government? That's very vivid. [[The president calls.]] I haven't heard of these meetings. It is a reflection of the pride here, which is next to fall, that these classes do not even ask their own party members what is wise to do at this point and then come up here and just think they are Mother Teresa and just really need to be here at the helm. I've just never heard anything like it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-08-94.u22	President. We now say goodbye to the deadliest government of all time, and we'll take a new government for a few months. I suppose this government agreed to complete all the cases that the previous government could not do, such as. it's the most important thing to know about housing. I wanted to say to you, dear newest. The government, unfortunately, is so that your weightiest is no trust or yes, there is approximately 14% high trust in you, but there is very little trust about 55%. How will you win trust? I haven't heard anything about it today from those who are in charge of this government, I'm talking about the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance. But we are in the odd position that the head of the advance party is still the prime minister who resigned. I just want to say, I have nothing to say to this new government, nothing, until we start discussing the distrust as the highest level. Since a government is so eager to discuss, we all expect to be filled with excitement in that discussion. I hope that by the discussions the members of the board felt that it is not in our heads just the memory of the parts of distrust, no, it is in the hearts of the common people. Listen to it.
