ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u1	At a meeting of the Council of Northern Ireland on August 16th. Elín was Hirst elected vice president of the department.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u2	Mr. President. We talked here yesterday, the highest case. Governments aimed at providing limits on prices of equal payment loans. We're here at this fall council, including... ... becausethepresidents. Governments felt it necessary to complete a case related to the insurance policy. In view of the problem. paritaprevir In January 2014, Dr. Davíð Gunnlaugsson said that it was perfectly possible to eliminate the insurance policy during this election period and, in view of the fact that this has been the election of the Future Party since 1988, he has actually had several opportunities in the government seat since the time to enforce this campaign, and in view of the fact that this was one of the biggest cases for the last elections, we may have expected more at a press conference in Hare at the beginning of this week where we had a line on price insurance. When it comes to the matter, it turns out that this very long epidemic of greed, which has lasted all this terms, yields a very small mouse. What's interesting is that there are three people out there. Last night, two candidates and one independent member spoke up, and all described them as quite doubtful of a matter. Secretary of finance. In the past, we discussed housing support with young people, who also seem to be based on basic conditions that include the average wage in the country and that do not look for a median of the young people's income, to which the procedure is intended, is far below this average wage. As it turned out well in television news last night, this procedure is hardly likely to be effective. These are the big matters that we hold to Congress so that the government can finish the plan and the important things, and I have to ask myself, Mr. President, if this council serves the purpose of the government's purpose. [[The president calls.]] I have a very serious doubts about that after yesterday, and considering that today's program is a case of delinquency, which still doesn't occur, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u3	A respectable president. After the vote by the Department of Social Affairs yesterday and its declarations and members of the Party, I challenge the Eygló Harðardóttir and the forward party to move in the council a bill for increased support for family members, rising pensions, and rising disability. If the Minister of Social Affairs wants to raise pensions and increase support for children's families and the advance party, that means he wants it already that we all in the government stand up for it. That is why there would be a rich body of tribunals to take such a matter on. I don't see any basis for putting up such a matter here in a relatively few days. Of course, 44 members of the council would be in the back if the forward party meant it, if he was willing to stand by the big words and put in here the bills. It's an increase in Congress. In fact, seven of the candidates, the minister, and six with him were sufficient. It would simply be possible to make this possible. While the minister and the advance party do not follow their words and offer proposals for spending money in order to raise pensions, disability pensions, and support for family members, it is difficult to mark that procedure. But they do, and I am confident that they will receive abundant support from all directions, making it a success of reality during the council. It is true that there is room to improve the quality of nursing and disability and to increase support for the family of children in the country. It is true that the government that sits today has left these groups in the commercial growth that has taken place during the term. It is true that there should be a top priority to correct this, but likely we need to wait for a new election period and for the government to come here in more ways to realize it, since the minister and the advance party are not going to deliver any matter of Congress but are just going to talk. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u4	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss the suggestions of an Internal Affairs Working Group who was working to find solutions to an illegal download on the Internet. They're about a lot of interesting things. It is, in fact, there. assuming that illegal download can be prevented by shooting in a so-called pop-up window when people try to access certain pages. This has serious consequences. That, in fact, will. will, in effect, prevent certain privacy on the Internet. In order to make this really possible, there are two factors in the situation, it is either working with these illegal pages and checking whether they themselves want to install these pop-up windows or requiring Internet service companies to have a kind of code shot, which is exactly the same technology that viruses and other software are based on. In effect, then, these suggestions suggest that the State interfere with the use of the Internet. In order to have this code shot, there is a need to monitor all people's Internet uses, yes, a respectable president, all the Internet use of the people, to decide whether or not to enter the requested code. This corruption, which is being proposed by very easy encryption, https, which will prevent this code entry, or through a new attack on people's communications involving decrypting the encryption, can be prevented. This makes the Internet look secure. This gives others a chance to shoot in another player code. It's destabilizing privacy. This puts the websites and Internet banks in a very serious position. [[The president calls.]] and it's a huge expense. So I just don't understand how people think of it as being some kind of computer scholars when they suggest this on committees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u5	V.E.G. President. I'm going to describe my joy with the progress of the Senate. The material has been in the foreground of the discussion, and organization has been maintained. This is what I want to say because it's very important to the highest. A government completes its magnificent terms despite being cut to one end, to the highest level. A government will complete this according to the covenant that lays the basis for it. When I talk about issues, organization, and impressive results, there are examples here on a daily schedule. It's a bill. It's a TV. The Minister of Education is a turning point for students, who will finally be recognized and respected as sources of strength. Last night, it was so cool. Economic and Business Committees, two law-employers involved in buying on the first apartment and changing the loan system so that people can develop special property faster and earlier and lower their mortgage debt. It was then adopted yesterday by a government policy and a longer-term financial programme, a milestone in that, despite the intervention of an administry, responsibility, and failure to defend the success that has been achieved during this terms which is most likely to be in order to protect the stability that has been endured for 30 months without interruption, to keep inflation, to create continuous economic growth, to protect the high level of money gained and to further a steady increase in money gain, which would be more effective in the face of real value and production. Later today, the council takes up another stage in the government plan to increase the freedom of individuals and companies by means of a capital crisis. I could mention many other things, but most important of all, it is at the end of this discussion that the scope of this improvement will be set up in the welfare, health, education, and transport systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u6	A respectable president. When problems are misunderstood and society's evolution is misunderstood, people may start using wrong methods to try to fix them. One such example is the drug problem that was misunderstood in its time, and it was tried to fight with police authority. It has failed throughout history, as it has become famous. Another problem in my opinion is the battle against so - called illegal downloads or authoritarian violations, especially on the Internet. You see, there is a big misunderstanding that only an illegal download threatens the possibility of authors and rights to earn money from their work. It is also a legal download, a legal distribution of material, such as on Youtube, Spotify and Netflix. These are legal ways; these can be considered and obtained legally, whether for a price or not. You pay, for example. not for listening to music at YouTube when the author himself puts it on YouTube and requires no charge of the consumer himself. For example, he may receive advertisements or similar items. It's generally less than people get from CDs, but the CDs don't come back, it doesn't mean anything to go from sea to mountain. It doesn't work that way. [[Up front.]] Now is the time, and the future will come. This means that the technological advances in information technology will continue to have a major impact on the development of these markets. Even if we completely forget the so - called illegal download, it remains that it is a market that is changing rapidly, and it is important that the lawgiver recognizes the methods that are capable of working and what cannot work. One of the things that can't work without going into the privacy of people and freedom is about to resist illegal downloads by monitoring on the Internet and using such methods as is presented in a subtracted group to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Closing Web sites as they were done to a department is not going to achieve this result without entering people's freedom and privacy. Happily, this does not work, so we still keep our freedom and so it will remain. I think it's important that we keep in mind that when it comes to this category, it's also the legal means that the legislatator needs to keep in mind the struggle against the possible negative results of technology. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u7	V.E.G. President. Icelandic agriculture has been a source of community support throughout history and has been a foundation for all over the country. It has gone through great changes and developments over the past few decades, but we are now faced with an agreement on a new agreement on the article on the need for change with new emphasis. We are entering a new era requiring radical change in agriculture in Iceland. Farming, like other industry, needs a sense of security and forethought for the future. It is therefore important that the framework of the agreement is about ten years old. On the other hand, it is important to make a systematic review of the impact of the contract and its effectiveness. Therefore, I hope that we will have the wisdom to bring about the aspects of the contract being reviewed, call more parties to that table, and have consultation and cooperation that will add to the agreement on Icelandic agriculture. There the interests of Icelandic farmers and consumers need to settle down with the environment and the natural world. V.E.G. President. Icelandic farmers are ambitious producers of quality products that consumers can be confident of producing in such a way that high standards for reproduction and treatment of animals are high, and medication is with the lowest possible occurrence in the world. It is important that regulations on the origin of food sources be carried out so that consumers can be properly informed about the origin of products sold in grocery stores. V.E.G. President. Farmers have been active participants in the production of the land and are important to further emphasise the interaction of agriculture and environmental legislation with the emphasis on sustainable use. The knowledge of the United States is a priceless treasure that can be used to strengthen the country. The opportunity is many, and it is important to emphasize the unique status of Icelandic agriculture in terms of purity and low drug use. Iceland's Food Land can also be a tourist country we want to live in.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u8	Mr. President. It's not that bad. A senator of the forward party came in earlier that only the people who are now in power can complete the work the government has assigned to the council. Other members of Parliament can do that and ministers. It is not that no one else can create or support whether it is a valuable creation, economic growth, or stability. When we talk about stability, you must think of the incident that happened yesterday, i.e. already at the highest level. The social and housing minister decided to stay behind the government's policy for many years. Still, she intends to plan some future family policy. This is very special. Is it her private policy, or is it government policy? Now you start to think about it. It was observed by the chairman of the Quantum Community that the Minister of Social and Homing, with all the government's decisions so that they can not only teach finance ministers about the situation's status as it seems today, they have made their own decisions and decisions during the election period in which they aim to keep pensioners in a poverty trap. V.E.G. Prime Minister doesn't consider the position of social and housing minister to be distrust or supreme. Secretary of finance. Foreign Minister is convinced that the band will remain in the government and reject the attack on the Chairman. A respectable president. I don't know exactly what world these people are living in. The government's out of commission, and she has to start to realize it. She's out of office because of the Panama scandal, and because of this, the prime minister said she had to, and others should have done so, and the government should have left at that time and seen her decentness in it. [[The president calls.]] Well, it's clear that we have to vote, and fortunately, the election day has already been set, because from now on, it's about to hold on to credibility. [[The president calls.]] This government is completely trustless.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u9	President. Sadly, at times this dignified meeting here changes to some sort of charade. For example, that happened yesterday when the ultimate one. Social Affairs minister sat by the vote on the budget of the government. That's the best of them. A social minister has been rather slow in these terms all over the season, when she had sat three years in spite of her heavy work being on her table when she took over. She also comes to say that she wants to extend her birth certificate and raise her payments to a maternity clinic, which, of course, is essential, but she was obliged to remove such laws when she sat down on the minister's chair. Do people not realize that being a minister is a responsibility? It's not just because I want to now or I'm gonna be with this right now. This is serious. I want to record it as a dog. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir said earlier: "Is this the noble minister today moving in a family conference? What is this family policy about? The pedophiles that are part of the budget? Or it is that the government has not approved this family policy at the highest level either. Minister? A respectable president. This is just gonna be a joke.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u10	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make the future of the city's Reykjavík airport on the topic today. It appears that there is a solidarity of agreement among members of all groups at the General Assembly to submit a synod decree that national exercise will be held at the Watermur airport. At the beginning of the week, I allowed myself to draw attention to the formation of this situation. I received a report from the mayor of Reykjavík that this is now a Typician for politicians who want to be handed over. I'm not going to argue with the Olympic champion in that article, but I'm still going to let it be noted that the person standing here has not run his Polish in front of cameras much. What I'd like to review is that a deed was issued yesterday based on an agreement made by two members of the United States on March 1, 2013. A recent trial in the Supreme Court, by permission of the president, is found in the 4th chapter of this court: So, according to Article 7, there was no agreement on property. track No. 40/2002.◯ Materially, this means that there will be another deal to be won to the airport, and perhaps this card will be sold for more than these three glass bulbs and scraps as it is in this contract, it's like Manhattan in the past, because 430 million for this game is a natural joke, so to keep it going. But I am glad that there is a solidarity in the Council on the future of the airport. I hope that the city's rulers will come to hear the national dues more than they have done with 70,000 persons signatures, secondest signature in Iceland, which was here a few years ago, and have been completely ignored by the people who are going to run new politics and to let the nation rule. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u11	V.E.G. President. Then the first week of this summer council is nearing its end and there is no room for speculation about the work of the council. V.E.G. The government was hammering it, or has been calling it from spring to the end of many important matters, before the election day could be announced first and then the election is due. Now we've been able to see some of these matters, and really just amazing to see and experience how neglected they are for the treatment of Congress. Thus, diagnostic work on one case after another is completely lacking, as has been made available in a discussion of these matters here at the Assembly Hall, where each case has been held. The senator after another has pointed to a number of things that are just missing into the papers from the highest point of view. Government. Similarly, there is a complete lack of perspective on the interaction of the issues presented here. In one case, it is being suggested that insurance be reduced. On the other hand, when discussing the loan fund of Icelandic students and the student loan system, it is being suggested to keep the insurance in, while raising interest on those who need to borrow. So it's totally impossible to see where the highest is. The government wants to go with its primers. [[The president calls.]] It's all I can see, but it's just over. It seems that no one knows where the rest should be, or what we really are going to pull our community with our work here today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u12	Mr. President. There is a full need to discuss the activities of the council in view of the final outcome of the nation's government. It's just that way. We have a government that is trying to push us into pretending to be something and even trying to tell the Council what to do. It's a government that our last spring decided to extend its life and turn itself into a temporary government until the fall of the next town on the board of government. Of course, the number of people who notice that this was a big mistake for all parties, and especially for those in the administrations, not choosing last time for us. It's been so clear that I prophesied that this was simply a check of time, uncertainty, and resolution not to face reality last spring. Now some executives come forward and say: At least it's best to vote immediately, interrupt a council immediately, and choose immediately. Others demand that individual government ministers resign, etc. Fortunately, the next October election will have little chance of surviving this government. It will lack both the strength of Congress and probably the will to try to continue its cooperation. That's fine. In such circumstances, the president, the president, the chairman of a council, and the presidents of a council simply need to sit down and evaluate for themselves the material reasons to be handed over and who to wait. Governments dying and dying are not to be told by the Generals any more than governments in general are expected to oppress the council for obedience. It's a Senate hearing in Iceland. This is a contingency government. It is obvious that some matters that should have a proper effect and take place immediately in the autumn months will need to be considered, while other controversial issues, which are not to be taken into effect until e.g. ... inthe middle of the next year, spending time doing this. [[The president calls.]] That's ridiculous. This government has no longer been authorized to order a legal debate on the loans or on the upper limit of discrimination systems. A financial minister to young people in the housing market will be legalized. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that once again familiar news comes, July was the hottest month on earth until then. The challenges are so infinite that you can hardly know where to begin. But we can see in various countries, e.g. In the Netherlands, ambitious plans have been made as if in 2025 no cars are going to be powered by fossil fuels, oil. We have some plans in Iceland, but if we look at what government agencies are buying or just the Ministers who orders the government, it's more of a word than a table, some reflection that by 2020, 10% of the automobile fleet will be powered by renewable fuel. Operation I know of the highest. Environment Minister is working on combating food waste, which is extremely important, but is lacking, for example. information on the amount of food being discarded, e.g. Just from stores. I have a feeling there's a lot of juice. It is quite unusual that in fact, it is cheaper for shopping to bring expired foods that have not been sold into the market than to take them to marlts or terrestrial stations. There is a force to be used by the government. Organic waste should be disposed of for molts, and it should be cheaper than to grow it, but today it is less expensive, so the bread is in the plastic or what it is now. I think this may be one of the most important ways to get them to reduce waste and make incentives to sell food before they run out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u14	Mr. President. This week, I watched a small group of young people starting high school and heard their conversation. They enjoyed watching and listening because they were so cheerful and excited and excited. After that, I began to think about how much responsibility we as older ones are and have been trusted to make laws and governments of the land, as these young ones are sometimes told that they will have the opportunity to live happily. Of course, our most important goals and guides are to arrange our tasks so that these young ones will have every opportunity to enjoy themselves as individuals do their interests and abilities. Full opportunities without discrimination and unnecessary barriers. Aren't we sure we're doing that? Is there any danger that we are letting the special interests of individual groups have too much to do with our discussion and decisions? Do we secure children and young people in this country as much opportunity to educate themselves and create their future in harmony with their will and ability? Or do some children and young people receive small opportunities because of their economic or social situation or because of a disability and impairment that we do not meet with proper support? Sadly, there is no doubt about it. The numbers speak for themselves. A UNICEF report on the status of children in Iceland, published last February, concluded that more than 6,000 children are affected by a serious lack of material value in this country. Mr. President. The election is about to begin. Children and young people in this country need a government that sets priorities for them, a government with equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u15	Mr. President. This government isn't in its death ends, it's out of nowhere. Everyone sees it. This game is at the top. The Minister of Social Affairs yesterday not to hold the State budget until the next five years, and the government's policy was not surprising, but it's all too late. I agree with the chairman of the Corporate Community. The Minister of Social Affairs has stood by all the government's decisions until now and has had the full opportunity to stand up, vote against, or leave this government. V.E.G. A minister has stood by not bringing the wages of the elderly and the desperate to the minimum. She's been working on raising the food tax on smaller hands. She's been working on changing the tax system and amassing step distinctions that have benefited them from earning a living. That's the way you keep counting. She's been on a correction that's gonna help with the payoff rate, flat correction. I'm not gonna say that. Social Affairs has not had a good will, but people must also stand by themselves, not just 15 minutes in elections. V.E.G. There has been a secretary in the holding of prime messages for housing and the health - care payment of the public. It was not until this spring assembly that they could be arranged, with the help of the whatsoever, to resolve the situation. So I don't think there's a demand for a show-off like this. V.E.G. A social minister should long ago have abandoned this government ship, who is thinking of only action in behalf of the more prosperous. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u16	V.E.G. President. I'd like to discuss the West Side. Some may wonder, though, that a member of the Norwegian-West District convention is discussing a road language outside its district, which is now so important in the western part of the country. to the inhabitants of Aranesp, the largest rural society in the northwestern district of 7,000 inhabitants. At the same time, good transport on the western road is vital for other rural areas in the northwestern district. An analysis has shown that every day some 2,000 cars travel all the way back and forth from their rural communities next to the Hahbjörður on the north and there are people who attend work and school to the capital every day. Also, analysis has shown that the western road has been followed in the process of reforming roads. This is so that sections can be very difficult for drivers to plan for, including, To get on my way, as I saw yesterday when an ambulance on a priority trip from the Western National Institute of Health to A Arane, it was difficult to get on its way because of tight traffic. Such medical transfers have gone almost every day without exception. It is urgent to make improvements on the Western road, and the town management of Aranesp has concluded the matter and clearly identified the need for this. In this context, I would like to refer to my synoptic proposal for the West Coast that was proposed at the council on November 2, 2015. It's about to the highest. The local minister will initiate a discussion with the councilman of the city in Reykjavík, the town council in Mosfellstown, and a representative of the rural areas in Westland, contact Vega, and other relevant members of the contact on the necessary road to the Westland. I want to challenge it. Councilmen and candidates in the Northwestern district of the United States to join us in the motion to pressure this urgent transport system to reform the inhabitants of the West and the inhabitants of the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u17	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the exchange of currency laws with subsequent changes. Last year, the bill is part of the government's budget for the release of capital ablaze that was officially presented on June 8. The law is no. 87/1192, with subsequent changes. The bill is a third step in that program, but the first step was as it is known to be in dealing with the problems of the fallen financial companies, and the second step was to solve the so - called African problem. This process, like previous steps, takes into account the advice of experts and the experience of other nations. This is how we prepare the bill, including General counselling of the World Bank Fund was used to relieve the capital capital capital capital in a structured effort and in careful steps which will take into account the pressures that can arise on financial resources and balances. As in previous stages, the primary objective is to contribute to the emissions of capital waste by economic stability and the global economy. In general, most of Iceland has been considered to be ideal for further emissions of capital waste. Can be used there, e.g. There are interest rates in foreign countries, greater economic benefits than in business countries, low inflation and funding because of the service trade, with the expected rise in the kroner, all of which are factors designed to reduce the risk of general capital refugees. This has increased the development of the entire population, as well as the significant improvements in economic control and the regular work intended to promote national and financial stability. This situation, as well as earlier action on broils and decontinents, now enables governments to take relatively large steps toward the full emissions of capital resources. The bill's main policy is to provide individuals and lawyers, both domestic and foreign, increased sources of capital movement between countries in foreign currency and in currency exchange. It is suggested that this will be done in two phases, which I will now account in general, but too much of a matter would be to mention any space of the bill. I'm going to start by going over the first step of emissions according to the bill. Why, it was in the first century C.E.! ... andKenna,Earl,Earl,English. equals 1.g. For example, the bill contains a variety of compartments, which suggests that any payment related to products and service exchanges that have been restricted will become available in order to form reimburse and purchase vehicles. The same applies to capital movements because of a foreign forward. At the same time, funding movement for taxes and public pay, sufficiency, accidents and damages to foreign parties will be made free. In Figure 6 of paragraph 1. and provisional spending is suggested to invest money in foreign currency, other money in foreign currency and advance and foreign loans will be free to make a single contribution of 30 million. K. ... when the law'sregistered, but up to 100 million. K. next New Year's Eve. This is a significant change, a significant opening. The number 7 of Article 1 of the bill is suggested that at the value of the bill, the direct investment of national citizens will be unlimited. This is one of the most important aspects of the bill when it comes to valuing, to the extent that it can be done, however much compromise is of individual requirements. This is a big, important step in the disposal of capital resources. While no amount of money limits are suggested on these investments, it is suggested that they be subject to the confirmation of Iceland's Pentateuch, as stated in a report, primarily to make sure that there is a direct foreign investment. In terms of the first item, financial investments in foreign currency, it may be noted that when it comes to the limits of money set down from year to year, it is very likely that many domestic people will land in the roof. Eight. The bill is suggested to reduce the obligation of national citizens to donate foreign currency to the country. The compromise of the obligation laid down in the arrangement rhymes with the space suggested in Article 1. The bill. That's what it's like. suggest that submission does not cover interest due to the borrowing of persons from foreign sources to purchase property or vehicles abroad or funds due to loans made available to other international investments. The first part of the bill also contributes to changing the law on Iceland's Federal Bank and No. 37/2016, for the treatment of Croncies that depend on specific restrictions. It is suggested that Iceland's Central Bank on Information Meetings be increased. These changes are thought to be necessary to strengthen the monitoring role of the Federal Bank, using capitalism between countries and domestic currency markets. This is suggested in order to make the bank more able to fulfill its primary role in promoting prices and financial stability. The proposed changes to the law No. 37/2016 is small and is designed to promote more conformity in that legislation. Then I'll turn to the second step of release according to the bill. Another step that the emissions of capital syrup will be taken is proposed on January 1, 2017, as already indicated. At that time, it is assumed that, in addition to financial contributions in foreign currency, other currency requirements in foreign currency and foreign loans, the deposit will also be authorized within the budget and suggested to be 100 million at first. In that case, the National Ownership of foreign stocks will also be canceled within the warrant. By doing so, national and international groups will be able to import and stocks to and from the country and do business with the stock market within their boundaries. In terms of the travel fees, it is suggested that the access to its purchase be immediately cleared by law, but at the end of the year, the requirement for evading the deposit by the bank is paid for the travel fee and to buy its fall within the former 100 million. K. maximum. provisional arrangements suggest that the Federal Bank be committed to reevaluating the budget of the law for July 1, 2017, and that the bank be allowed to raise the limit, if the circumstances permit, by regulations. The contribution laid down in the bill means that several of the legal requirements for currency will fall out in its entirety, and others must conform to the current law texts. If the bill becomes legal, restrictions that support efficient budget management will still be available, along with the continuation of various regulations, e.g. those involved in commercial transactions with Icelandic dollars, borrowing and borrowing, responsibilities, business decontamination with a dollar, as well as the fact that foreign currency may still be reduced. Governments are expected to reevaluate conditions for the increase of budgets early in the next year as well as general attention to the next steps under full effort. At that job, there is a need for even evaluating the sources necessary permanently for the government to respond if there is a risk that funding could stabilise the welfare and money issues. With regard to the pension fund, it is assumed that some special sources to foreign investments will remain on the decision made by the Federal Bank at any given time. The processing of the bill was evaluated for its likely impact on all key elements. The amount of emissions recommended in the bill is generally thought to be designed to have a positive effect on individuals and companies. It is then assumed that the payment period of the Penitentiary Bank on the remaining limits will be reduced and that the treatment will be simpler. The release would be as previously shown in an orderly and conservative step to minimize the risk of overwork of financial resources and the payment of the population. It is not expected that the value of the bill's collection will have a direct effect on the income and payment of state funds, but in the long term it is expected that emissions could have a positive effect on credit ratings and, in turn, the debt and interest rates due to the debt. As previously mentioned in a public presentation on this matter, this is a crucial step since the introduction of capital capitalism in 2008. By our earlier actions, we have been equipped to take these steps. The shadow of the sea, in effect, bursts that year, but the rest depends on things. We are not taking full steps to take in this matter, but we are taking a very big and important step. After this step has been taken, the majority of the public in Iceland will not feel the seas, not that all Icelanders have experienced them much in their day - to - day activities, but have been reminded that they are still there and where, such as for travel or other ordinary financial movements that can arise in each person's life. Therefore, we can say that we are taking steps toward making the situation comparable to that in other countries in the European Economic Areas, and we have been allowed to get used to it since we became members of the team, that capitalization of main policy is permitted, free and free. It will be an ongoing task of the government to continue developing and developing the development of capitalism. This year we have presented laws that can be more supportive with government governments in order to maintain financial stability in our country, but that work will never be completed in itself. I hope that in the early part of the next year, we can take further steps, but it will be in the next year's time to consider when we will be in a position to take the step to the full and in what way humans intend to deal with the rest of the problem that still exists and to relate to the rest of the country. As we know, about 10% of Iceland's national production is still within the country and is heading into locked accounts in accordance with laws adopted earlier in the year. A respectable president. According to this statement, the bill will have to end this discussion. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to express the satisfaction that this bill has been shown and that we were successful in the process of decommissioning. We in the Union will be particularly proud to see that the strategy we have adopted in March 2011 has been followed in large numbers, and the contracts created in March 2012 by legislation against foreign demands have also brought us results. The only thing I might roll up and want to ask the highest. Secretary of the country's great. We assumed that it might be the first task to face, and in the front of a minister's proposal, that the leftover problem would be addressed before the demands of the fallen bank. Then the sequence was changed. Then, in our case, an act was taken against the affiliates and followed by an invitation, but it has to be said as it is, perhaps, that the participation in it was below the expectations made. So I only want to roll it up to the highest. Minister if it may have been a mistake, after thinking, to wait for an amputee and action against them, whether it might have been better to keep an original plan and what his assessment is at that position now and how it will be and whether it will prevent further decommissionation, or how this situation might have affected the next steps I really hope we can take as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u19	A respectable president. By the law adopted by spring then, we were living in favor of these actions, so the deportation part either entered the invitation or entered specific accounts that depend on the restrictions. So the law in itself was neutral to what we are doing today. This does not affect the steps taken now, whether or how much of the cents were involved in the invitation. But as I went on to say in my introduction, it will affect the future's next steps and decisions on full-mobilization, decisions for full-mortality will not be taken without its effect on bills dependent on specific limits. Here I think it'll continue to apply exactly what's valid up to now. We need to evaluate the situation at a time. We are confident that we will take that step now. Looks bright. We hope that we will be able to take further steps next year in order to open up more fully to capitalize freedom. It is not time to answer when the step will eventually be taken to unite the leftover square market and the foreign peninsula market.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The answer and agrees with him that it is important always to evaluate the balance of the situation before each step of this journey, since it is of utmost importance that we both have political solidarity and that we do not place national risks of efflux. But it's kind of funny, because it's the highest. A minister here explained that it was important to increase freedom, that freedom seems a little different from this government. Perhaps the most enjoyable example of this bill and the premiere we talked about yesterday will now be allowed to buy one piece of property each year in foreign lands. But they simply cannot finance it with a 40 - year credit loan unless they are young or low in income. This, naturally, when you're starting to laugh at the interaction between the government's economic government, must put in a bit of humorous light the verbal speech you often hear from the highest level. Secretary of finance that he is against forethought and wants to increase his freedom of action. That's why I want to encourage the highest. A minister who dares go a little further into the direction of freedom and does not give the prescripts on who can take certain types of loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u21	A respectable president. There are other issues in the council that deal with these things. I am, for example. with a bill for the council, which in its own way deals with freedom to make your own decisions, and that is a pressure to obtain foreign loans. There the senator has held the view that we should go further in moving toward freedom, not opening the door for some to borrow foreign loans, even though they were guards and could put up plenty of possessions, it would be unfair for others to fail to do so; therefore, it should be forbidden to all. That's a bit of a turn-down, isn't it? It is also interesting to listen to this from what happened. A senator who spent most of his time discussing the council that we would never be able to take the steps we are taking now without having a discussion with the European Union and by aiming for the recording of Euro. The only way for us Icelanders to get out of their seas and ensure free capital transport would be to be inside EM II and to be in the EU's cover and the currency company that is there and the way in would be the only way in there for us. But now we're showing that despite nothing of this, we're on our own terms ensuring that this bill is a big step towards free capital transport and will be followed by further steps, the next steps throughout the years, and further steps next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u22	A respectable president. It is a joy to know that this matter has come and is especially glad that they can have the Senate handled calmly so that they will find time to do so. I just want to look at the future, but in the light of the past, especially how the banks grew far beyond what the Icelandic economy could ever compare to the collapse of 2008, as it has become, and I know it. Minister is very informed. At one time, if you had asked the role of the SEC, it would have been a formal role and would we have asked if the SEC looked at economic levels as one of its goals would have been true? Part of the problem, and one of the things I noticed before the collapse and I'm afraid to be back there is the thought that we need to be careful about talking about the economy, gently pointing out what's wrong in the economy. I'm afraid that, over time, if we let ourselves back in such a way, tension will build up that will then be impossible to handle with so - called correction, i.e. The 2008 economic collapse. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Economic and financial secretary whether he thinks it is possible long-term to eliminate capital capital master altogether, which I know is part of this operation here. But when that step is taken to the fullest, as I will allow myself to tell ◯when, how will we prevent the economy from pushing so much as was true in its time? How can we prevent such a situation from happening to an Icelandic crown that we are afraid to deal with the problem and can't do it until it is too late and it's all in a fire and a bar?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u23	A respectable president. This bill contains a website for the Federal Bank to obtain information beyond what is appropriate today. I encourage the committee to go very carefully over whether anything is going beyond the need, but there is just the basic thought that we can have that tool, the tools that can best enable us to identify the risks that are building up in the system. But this is just one of the many articles that have infiltrated the council. Similarly, we have a transformation of the financial market laws, as well as rigid rules, limits the risks that financial companies can take on, and increase their financial standards. I could go on for a long time. One of the limits we have recently set in the binding laws of short - term financial resources that enter Iceland gives evidence that we intend to have a further national response tool to counteract extremes, as we know from the past. But in spite of all this, despite all the regulations and efforts we make to be well informed at any given time, we will remain in an open market economy designed for radiators who, unfortunately, can cause problems, both in general, in economic management, and then have problems that can enter the board of government, state, rural society, and no less at all in the homes of the world. There we are in the same boat as other open, free economys to choose this option despite the defects because the second option, which is shutting down and guiding everything, has proved to be much more damaging to living for a long time. Let us not forget that in spite of the tremendous fluctuations we have been through, we are very fast to straighten out the cow, and the swings were huge in many other places where people are still struggling to recover. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u24	A respectable president. One of the concerns I have about an open economy with an Icelandic dollar, i.e. without control, it is just that I am no better than it will always offer these exaggerated economic swings simply because of the small size of the country, the small size of the economy. I'm really worried about this. Although I can totally agree that the Navy and similar agencies need permission to collect information, I still think that we will always be in the position where we have to give these institutions much more information and interventions than we would like to. What I feel is how we're going to live here in an open economy with the Icelandic crown is that we must always be looking after everything, looking at everything, and not enjoying the freedom that we're looking for. I'm worried about how we'll deal with it in time. When it comes to thinking of the Icelandic economy, I always end up at the same spot. I don't like to say it, but there's a dollar and how we're going to be here in a free environment with an Icelandic dollar. I don't see how we can do it without always being, not necessarily in the bones, but always with a bank that needs to be examining something. But what I don't quite understand yet, maybe I'm better able to understand it after I have studied this bill properly, how we're going to react when the excitement is overexcited. Are we going to limit the ability of banks to expand? Will they not again say that we need to move on, further, because the future is so bright, it is all so fun, as humans did, and always have a tendency to do? I'm a little worried we don't know how to start. When things go well, people want things to go on doing well. If the monitoring and response are characterized by a slight decrease in walking, much pressure is required to ignore these warnings.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u25	Mr. President. Recent laws that we have approved, e.g. for financial contributions, there is an example of tools that governments have in their armory to cope with. They can e.g. making financial market companies more difficult to expand their spending if the economic situation allows the government to view this as unfortunate. But otherwise, it's like this, I think, unfortunately, this will always be an enormous challenge, not just with an Icelandic crown. Let us look at those who have decided to work with an open market economy and a currency common in a large coin field. What happened to them when they lost control of loans and spending? How did things get out of the way in Greece, when people had overdone themselves in their private consumption, debt, both government and private sector, bottomless loans, and debt that had no basis for? How did it go with the task of winding down that position afterward? How devastating it was then to have given away the possibility of sharing the burdens evenly by bringing down the currency's favor! However, there should never be, as is often pointed out in discussions about this, an easy way to escape from the government to go on forever. Of course, that's not in the context I mention it. My conclusion is that, in spite of all the flaws, it's the best. One senator noted, that we have our own currency, but we need to continue to build laws and guide them in common with government, employment markets, state, and rural unions on measures that help to sustain them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u26	President. Surely, all of us can rejoice that one more step can be taken in trying to get rid of the capital oceans, for it has been the policy of the government, from collapse, to try to repair the economy so that in time we were released from these oceans. How happy all of us must be when we do so! Yet, the greatest challenge for me is to read about the actions now stated in this country. On one hand, it is a small nation that has a lot of money and is on high wages and that can invest and buy one property in foreign lands each year. That's certainly very important to the public in the country. Then you say it's a travel tax inhibitor. The travel fee has been so I don't think any ordinary people have made it to the top. These actions show blackness on the white side of the global plague, which is incorrectly divided by the national cake. It needs to be re-cuted. Normal people need more of the national cake than they get today. Those who use the resources need to pay in the collective budget so that we can maintain a good welfare society.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u27	Mr. President. I don't think it's a very long talk, but I'd like to reiterate a few points about it. The subject of the bill was presented to a so - called consultation committee on emissions a few days ago. I must make a comment to the fact that there has been little real consultations in these terms. This is a group of consultations that have not been performed as such but, rather, have been more involved in accepting news reports of action. I just want to say that I feel that it shows the understanding of all the political parties at the General on this project and the importance of this project, of course, that we've done a lot here in speeches that we want to have the best cross-cutting cooperation and consultations. In spite of the lack of the will that the government has shown by having nothing to do with these actions, representatives of the opposing parties have always done their part in handling matters, for we, in particular, feel pressure from the commercial situation in the country that these steps are phased. However, I can agree with what this bill has been pointed out to be, and it actually appeared in a sermon. Ministers, may not make much difference in how the people of the country experience a head. The country's population has not experienced much, except those who still go to the bank and buy money in currency and have to make a fare. Most people are just taking the credit card to foreign countries and not feeling anything special about oceans. Thus, it is a conflicting introduction on the subject to talk about the fact that this is necessarily a great increase in freedom for the public. But what's positive about the bill is that this may be important, especially for SMEs. From there, we members of the Parliament have heard quite a number of stories that depend on problems caused by problems. I'm specifically referring to sceptical and innovation companies who have to rely on a great international network; sometimes called the international sector. Of course, we rejoice when we are able to strengthen the part of our employment, which, in fact, I believe we Icelanders should rely much more on us. Here are some steps in emissions, which, as I say, may be relevant to these parties and those with a hundred million to buy houses in foreign lands, which I doubt are all the people. But okay. I'd like to say, though, that we still have a problem. That's the problem we know is in the Off country. In view of the fact that only a small portion of these owners were involved in the provision of the Federal Bank during the summer period, the question is: How exactly will the problem be dealt with? As we have seen, there are 220 billion who are en route to locked accounts. Of course, it creates a situation that is not normal. The nation's currency is not normal, not during this situation. But I agree absolutely that we need to take our step to the ground with care, and it is better for us than for us to do so. I'd like to say, too, because it describes why. Councilmen worry about their lives after a head: Of course, a nation with its own currency needs to be especially careful. I think we're all aware of what is in the hall. Of course, we will see a scene that will have a national response tool when the oceans are lifted. There's more to it than that. We pointed to this in our spring when laws were prepared for special limitations in special property, or what a bill is now called, which was exactly what the Secret Bank had to do with the need for the future growth change regulations that might have been done more quickly and in combination with other measures. But the case we in the left movement, supported by a green supply, also shows that the full need is to have a plan of how we can visualize these national response devices. Of course, it has provided some suggestions on the table. I think it is quite simple to point out the currency as the root of all problems. We need to watch that many countries in the euro are experiencing tremendous fluctuations despite being a major currency and a powerful central bank. I think there are many other sources of the problem. Then I specifically quote what we've been discussing at this assembly at the moment. The financial and business committees that deal with the budget of the financial sector, where there is a growing demand for more and more regulations, increasingly rigid regulations, clearer frames, often very technical; where experts'military forces are working on setting rules on the financial sector where other experts operate and the government are under pressure to put such rules on how to get close to the financial sector so that we will not go through a recession like those we went through 2008. Both of us with our crowns and the euro went through a crisis because financial sector has become so much of Western society. And it is based, not on real valuables, but on business dealings between financial companies that are taking great risks that have a major impact on the lives of the common people. I think it's a question for us when we politicians are so caught up in this principle of experts, that it is difficult for many to understand or understand the purpose of serving, whether we believe that the financial sector as such and the system that we have built up is necessarily the best. This is true regardless of all currency and all currency. It is a system that has a tremendous impact on the lives of the common people all around us, and it is about how money is handled between financial institutions without the control of the public or politicians. I think it's simple to point to the currency, but I think it's reality that a small currency will always need a rule around a language tool. It is then our choice of approach. I don't think we can overlook the fact that much of the last crisis we went through was a crisis that was caused by the financial system and was involved in business with financial funds between institutions. And with the end of a crisis, it is really remarkable how little changes have occurred, despite all kinds of increased regulations, conditions, and so forth, there have been no denatural changes. It's very important. When we speak here about political and government trust, not just in Iceland, but in all the Western world, it is not surprising that there is a minimum of trust in many places. The common people experience that this world will lead a totally self - righteous life, regardless of political actions. This world has a far greater impact on people's lives than on much of what we politicians do. I think it's important that these views be passed here. This is the world in which we are participants. This is the world we have agreed to participate in, for example, through our participation in the EEA community. There we can put down a set instrument to protect ourselves from currency swings and other pursuits that are involved in direct business ventures that depend on the crown, but we cannot avoid facing the fact that there is only one part of this reality. As for the matter itself, I just want to say at last that this is, as I said at the beginning, small steps, which may still matter, especially for SMEs. That's a good thing. I'm also glad we get time on the Economic and Business Committee to review the situation, considering that it's not as fast as it's often been in a crisis case where there's been a high speed. We have an opportunity to consider the matter carefully. There are a number of things that are needed to be considered, such as regarding the obligation, the gathering of information, and so on. However, this also shows, the position of the Offspring and this case, that abdicating the government officials here at the beginning of the season, may not be necessarily so complicated - even six to nine months in this context - has proved to be more complicated than anticipated. Of course, it was from the beginning that our budget in the government, which was 20091⁄2013, put forward the 2011 program, much of which was now being worked on until a new plan was published in 2015. It's a complicated task. I think that everyone can agree, however, that we have at least tried to pay for these matters despite the complete lack of communication in this ideal period, what survives this ideal period, on this complex matter, and in spite of the obvious fact that there are some causes here. Congress officials tried to minimize the problem, even expressing distrust in the work of the previous government, which set up the project between 2015 and 2015. I think it would be positive, then, that at least one could agree that it is important to be reasonable in this matter and to view this matter as a parapolitic solution and thus work on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u28	A respectable president. I'd like to start by celebrating that this case has come up and, like, come on. A senator went over earlier, glad we can take it at ease here at the council, at ease. The Economic and Business Committee. It's good to be. I just want to mention one thing and try to get the message to the nation by myself. Iceland is and will remain special because of the small economy. It all seems that for now we also have a special place in the small currency that we use in our daily lives and investments and so on. It's not all bad. Though I can come here and give talks about the jinx's flaws, it's not all bad. It's like the highest. A financial and economic minister briefly exceeded the cost of a cent's making a big change, but it is also a defect for people who either may not respond to such situations or who simply are not in a position to handle such situations properly. There are pros and cons. I don't think there are any magic solutions in these matters. But just on a more upbuilding note, rather than constantly trying to find the blame, I would like to suggest to people that they learn about money. It seems, though, that there is an antiquated culture in which money is a phenomenon. I think that's a wrong way of thinking. To disagree with financial matters and to disagree with the understanding of financial matters, I'd like to say that there's a lot of damage. Money is an instrument, just like a language. Teaching money about greed is something like blaming the language for rudeness. That doesn't make sense. People should not adopt such thinking. I insist that if Icelanders were as successful in financial matters as they are in music or something of Icelandic culture, we could be very close to the world in financial matters. Rather than being a laughingstock, as we were in 2009 and 2010, we could be exemplary. But it requires that we maintain our view of financial matters that we respect money as an instrument, regardless of values or how you use money, just as it is more important to use the language than exactly which language you use to express yourself. There's a lot of social suspicion about the financial system, about banks, about people who know a lot about money. I think that the suspicions may be destroyed, perhaps not spent, but at all costs meet, by taking pride in understanding the terms behind the words that appear in the media and in discussions of politicians and finance around the economy. Iceland remains in a position where there's nothing much to go wrong here to lead to an emergency. Iceland is very weak to the extreme fluctuations because Iceland is extremely small and has a very small currency. We will continue to have problems, such as having to have insurance here, in my opinion at least, to a large extent. I think we'll always have to live with some kind of head. Not the ones we are now living but some sort of head. I think the Bath - sheba will continue to want to know all about the economy and continue her constant pressure to obtain information far beyond what should be normal in a free society, in my opinion. I'm not going to waste my time going through Economics at the time. But in spite of all of this, I think that the good that the average Icelander can do is study financial matters, study terms, not allowing this group to be some monster. Don't let this speech and the words used by much of the above talk come to mind. People should not be afraid to look into things. They should not be afraid to understand money.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u29	V.E.G. President. I sometimes have this feeling, when you listen to the discussion about this excellent bill, which I think is a big interest in the nation, that some people are partial to it, including some members of the council. More surprising, it seems that those who are most excited to enter the EU where free flow of capital is absolutely necessary. When it comes to discussing such important issues as delinquency in the pursuit of special interests for the rich, their more prosperous ones, and that it doesn't matter to the public, you're a little shocked. For example, there is the possibility that in a foreign land, the wealthy can buy property. Two nations in the country. This discussion is presented in this issue. It surprises me a little bit. This is a huge interest issue for the nation of Iceland. There are public interest issues below. Public interest is that the great, much pension fund now owned by the public does not have to live by oceans. It is of utmost importance for a job to develop in a natural way, to become more varied, to give more opportunities for young people, and so on. No, then some people should turn the discussion into that Kingdombusters can buy real estates in 100 million in Spain. This is a rather sad discussion. In this way, she has been a big fan of community services with the main supporters of the government's opposition. It's just a matter of time here in the discussion. But I think most people can see through this. This is a matter of public interest. This is a very important matter, Mr. President. I think we're all supposed to be going to the end of this case, because it's probably the most important interest now for the council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u30	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to the Environment Agency legislation. On January 1, 2003, the European Environment Agency was co-founded with the EEA's Agency. The laws indicate that the Agency will carry out the projects that the State's Supreme Protection, the State's Natural Protection and the director's office were entrusted with certain laws listed. However, since 2003 the law does not comment on the many and varied roles of the Agency or on its specific tasks. The reason for this bill is, therefore, the need to establish more clearly in EEA legislation the role it plays and the main tasks it has, which are stated in various special requirements for the Agency. A policy review has identified the importance of this, and it is the evaluation of the Agency that the role of the EEA will be properly integrated and clearly set up in legislation on the Agency. A bill for discussion was worked together with the EEA. At that job, there was also a difference between the two groups. look to a song about a living room set at the end of 2012. The bill shows that the Agency is a state agency under the management of Ministers and is in charge and implementing environmental and natural protection. The main focus of the bill is on the role of the Agency and the organization, the main classes under the EEA and the main tasks under which the Agency operates, the responsibilities for consultation and exchange, and the sources of information that the Agency has, such as the implementation of a legal process and as a currency. The EEA has a general role in promoting clean, wholesome environments and nature protection and diversity through the aims of sustainable development. As stated in the bill, the Agency provides assistance in the preparation of laws and regulations in its field of work and in the support of policies and decision-making in environmental and environmental protection and in international cooperation. The EEA's projects include measures in the fields of pollution, protection, public rights and curfews, protection and sustainable fishing, sustainable consumption and loyalty, chemicals, climate, air quality, water protection and information sources. If this bill is the law, the law will have the aim of integrating and explaining the role of the Agency much better than in existing legislation and will include a clear framework of the role and work of the EEA as specified in separate laws. Hence, the bill does not include any material novelities. The bill is designed to facilitate government, economic and public perspectives and to help improve environmental integration with other environmental issues. A respectable president. I've traced the main ingredient of this bill and suggested that it be at 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u31	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. This is a bill for the EEA's overall legislation on the basis of work that has been taking place for quite some time. I think it must be a joy to see here at that point in that expedition. But I would like to pause mainly at the tips discussed in the chapter on consultation and coming from Land Protection. Land protection makes the comment during the work process feel that it is far from being solved by the bill that has long been facing environmental management, and it feels that this bill will not correct the criticism that has remained for some time. This text shows that since the main tips of the Land Protection Agency do not cover issues relating to the bill's topic, changes were not made, but the Ministry will take note of points regarding other nature protection work. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: What work is being done in the field of nature protection at the Ministry today and thus taking into account these indications from the Land Protection Agency?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u32	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. The EEA's legislation is here in the form of monologues as it appears and has been since 2002, but we are now creating a bill and explaining this much more relevant information to the public as well as to the administration. In fact, what's going on here is revolution rather than reform. This is a revolution of the production of the function of the EEA. About a question why. A senator is being examined in the Agency and in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and the Agency's legislation. It was decided that this cleanness, out of protests from the State Accounting, was special and that we were now not changing materially but, as noted in my background, into the laws of certain things. This is much more accessible, I think, for everyone coming in.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u33	President. I have to admit, I'm not much closer. Is it clear then that this bill presented here is primarily about the shape and presentation of the law, not about their content, and that there is still a review of the Agency legislation at the Ministry? Is that so? And that will be the comment that Land Protection had? I'm waiting for the highest. The secretary to confirm that the matter is thus open. Then I also ask the minister: What makes it necessary for this case to become a law if the Agency is still being revised in the Ministry? Is it not proper, then, to complete that review and then just bring the matter to the council, especially in view of our approaching election? I thought about the process and the priorities of the minister. Then I would like to ask you specifically about Article 9. The bill that leads to public rights and outdoors. It is, of course, one of the main factors that have been under consideration for nature protection during the past few years because of the increased use of the land's natural world in the interest of tourism. We know that tourism has progressed considerably to exploit nature, selling trips into certain areas, etc. If so, may you doubt that there is a key prince in the matter of public rights, as he was originally thought? The Council has now adopted preliminary laws on nature protection, No. 60/2013, which specifically stated that the Ministry was assigned to study this social interaction with tourism and other uses. I'm asking the highest. Another minister: How does that work? The Ministry is to present a bill there on autumn days if I remember correctly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u34	A respectable president. I understand this question very well with the senator because, so I repeat, this bill for law has been taken in, as I say, a number of things that have been put on the Agency in the many special laws that you did not consult under the EEA. It was considered monopoly to do this in accordance with the advice of the Government Accounting. The protection laws of nature are in constant progress, and I do not need to repeat what the senator had to do with it. We've also been studying the laws on both forestry and agriculture, and we're working on how this plays together in the EEA. They agreed, also with the comments we received, that this presentation was the first step, to present this bill for the Environment Act. Then we make time for the job, and the change would come into a bill and hopefully a law that would be much more accessible to all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u35	A respectable president. I recommend a hearing of family policy resolution for the year 2017,2021, with emphasis on children and children's families. The proposal is made according to the Declaration of the Government of Pronunciation and Independence Class. In the autumn of 2013, I appointed a project manager who was assigned to shape family policy with the aim of ensuring the social equation, the rightness of all families, and the lack of discrimination. In the family policy presented here, the preconceived principle is all - controlive but not limited to the rest of the family. magazines are looking for ways to ensure economic security and to increase support for the care and integration of family and employment. Following the initiative of the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights or the Child's Covenant, which was legalized here in early 2013, guided by family planning. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar. The basic value of the children's right to protect and care and to participate is reflected in policy. It aims to support the full implementation of the children's covenant and to take into account all decision making and working on children. Many important steps have been taken during the induction process, but they can be better. Has the United Nations Child Rights Committee included. Critically, the introduction of the covenant in this land was not being carried out in a specific way. Children are a sensitive group that needs special protection. When the standard of living and the quality of life of the various groups are compared, it is seen in Iceland that a higher proportion of children in homes live under low income limits than in the general population. In 2014, 10% of children lived in homes that had income below the low limit of income, compared with 7.9% of all the population. The same is true of other biographies, but in the same year, 53% of households with children found it difficult to make ends meet, compared to 39.3% of all households. In all, 79.5% of single - parent families found it difficult to make ends meet. With the aim of balanceing the status of every household in the country and trying to ensure that no child is living in poverty, I suggest that the legal environment in which economic support for family members will be revised and simplified to take into account the parental status of the children. This will increase equality and make it possible for parents with low incomes to have the same rights for all, including poor working parents. The preparation of this material must ensure that members of their parents are entitled to support their child's progress in the same way that parents share a child's legal home. It should be possible that new housing laws support family policy objective to equal the standard of society's living. These priorities are especially reflected in the new laws on housing that were provided by the General Assembly earlier in summer with the support of all members of Congress. A proposal to interpret family policy, with emphasis on children and children's families, is preparatory, highlighting the compatibility of various kinds of instruction and prevention work. The importance of intensive predestination is late overrated, but different groups need to be tailored. The early intervention of parental education also helps. that they can guarantee their children the best possible growth conditions. The more effective and consistent education for professional patients on risk factors for children's lives can provide protection, but it is important that those working with children identify the problem and know how to handle it and how to help the child and his family. Eventually, children and parents must be provided with instruction on key risk factors and any form of violence, alcohol and drug, Internet use, and sexual health. Thus, problems can be avoided and knowledge can also be used to reduce the damage in the presence of the problem. The use of a variety of neuropsychotics is high in this country, and it may be expected that a strong prophylaxis and educational work will lead to saving as this reduces the cost of specialised and pharmaceutical use. So much to do, but with intensive and cohesive proactive work, we can at the same time improve the use of capitals and improved quality of life for future generations. While sharing in organized leisure activities has a high priority, research has shown that the financial status of parents affects the participation of children in such activities and is clear evidence that children of the memory of their parents have limited access to leisure activities than those of their parents who have more than their hands do. It is important that meetings become ways to ensure that all children have the same opportunity to participate in leisure activities and make sure that the economy is not affected. There is also the need to ensure a sufficient supply of leisure time during summer and summer. Parents are responsible for child training and development, but support will be assured and will make it easier for them to coordinate family and professional life. By the sentence of a law on maternity and parentort in the year 2000, a fundamental change in the status of the sexes in the labour market was made, but after their arrest, fathers became increasingly pregnant. In 2008, the applications of fathers were 90 across every 100 women's applications, an example in the world. In 2009, since the difficult state of the state of money, the number of fathers who have new rights to birth has been steadily reduced to the maximum pay for their parents at birth. This development may be the opposite of the law's goals, but all children have the right to coexist with and care of both parents and therefore it is important to have public support aimed at ensuring that right at the same time as parents are able to integrate family and professional life. Although the highest known birth rate in Europe has declined over the last few decades, it has now reached a decline in birth rates that are not enough to sustain the population. In 2008 and 2009, the highest paid stocks of birth were high, with a high birth rate in the country of some 2.13/4.2 children in each woman's life. In 2014, however, the birth rate for every woman was reduced to 1.9 children after she had been two or more children since 2004. The family policy takes into account these facts, assuming that the work will be done on the basis of an action group, who have now been a member of the bill and are now reporting on the Ministry of Health, how to achieve the aims of a law on maternity, so that a child can be separated from both parents, and that parents are being enabled to coordinate family and professional life. Work must be done to ensure that misplacement of income households will be remembered when parents are laying down on maternity leaves and that they will also ensure a union between birth oralfs and day - care strategies at the end of their delivery session. It is also important, on the basis of these proposed groups, that there is a time plan, or schedule, and that most people agree on priorities when changes in birthworm, except for the sector of industry. In the spirit of family policy on the importance of prevention and early intervention and other support for children and children's families, the importance of supporting basic services in the environment is emphasized. Changing and improving organization can accomplish much within the framework of the operation. Improving the integration and cooperation between providers, such as Child Services, Social Services, Health Care, School, vacation services and police, and making sure that cases are being handled in consultation with users. Already there have been important steps to promote health care, e.g. with the increase of psychologists, but you can do better. Is it suggested that multidisciplinary cooperation will be increased and more professional groups will be recruited into the health - care sector now. Access to early family planning and specialised services has been inadequate in this area, but with a more advanced basis of service, the bioavailability can be improved, thereby strengthening prevention and preventing future complications in life. During the 1994 International Year of the Family, work began at the first and only family policy that the State has developed here. The strategy was adopted at the General Assembly two years later, which included: it was emphasized that rural society pursues family policy. Looking at the 20 years that have passed, it is seen that many things have been accomplished. Since the period has changed greatly, it can be said that the time had come to revise and shape the overall policy of family affairs with children in the foreground. This is also in harmony with the legal firmament of the United Nations Children's Convention on the United Nations, which supports its introduction. So, I'm willing to propose, tops. President, to propose a resolution on family policy with emphasis on children and children's families will be following this discussion referred to why. The welfare committee and to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u36	A respectable president. First, I wanted to ask the highest. Minister on the context of two administrations. We have a family policy and an increased support for children's families, a program on the program, but I understood the Minister's office so that in a state-of-the-art policy yesterday the Minister could not support the proposal of the government because it did not allow for the support that she felt needed to be with children's families. I'm going to ask the minister, "How do these two administrations hang together?" Is there a basis for some action that is thus not expected to be in the budget? Second of all. While the minister spoke, the chairman of the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, explained on the UN TV noon news that a minister who did not support the core affairs of the government could not expect to get his own affairs. I'm asking the highest. Therefore, social and housing minister whether it is in itself not a waste of time to discuss this fine matter more if there is any possibility that the colleagues do not intend to take care of the minister's case, but of course he will administer the Council's administration on behalf of the members of Congress, and how it responds to such declarations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u37	A respectable president. What I think very important is to be agreed by the Council and to reflect the approval of the General of the United Nations General on the United Nations Children's Convention, especially on the provision and housing. I present here on such teams as A.1., campaign against child care, which is being proposed by the same kind of ideologies and reflected in the improvements in housing where we want to match people's status, their parents' status, and their children's status, so it's based on their economic situation, not on their other position. Then, as a boy, it came into play. A senator referred to an interview with the secretary of finance. I haven't heard that interview, but I would have thought that all members of Congress would go to the Constitution and agree with their convictions of particular matters rather than with individual members.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u38	V.E.G. President. I want to thank the Minister for his review of this policy. What I wanted to point out is "F.9." that discuss resources for children who grow up with alcohol and drug problems. When I was in the Northern Council, a plan was made to help adults who are dealing with consequences later in life, people who had grown up in homes where alcohol and drugs were used, as well as violence of any kind. This plan was very busy, but recently it has been a major wake - up in these matters, where violence has been silenced in homes as well as drug abuse. I think it's very good for Iceland to look at the plan there. As reported in F.8 C.E. about violence in the homes of children, there is no doubt that domestic violence exists in this country, but we must not forget spiritual violence, i.e. The humiliation, disparaging remarks, and other matters that can be observed in homes may be harmful to young children who do not understand the reason for such a situation at home. The violence going on in some household does not always have to be physical and be seen on the outside of children. I am very happy that the director's work on the Southnes is mentioned. I've kind of stopped thinking about it as a test project because it's really starting to go very far now. It calls for a representative of Child Protector whenever violence is suspected or when police are called out to a home where violence is present, i.e. Don't let this go. I know that a similar campaign has been going on in Greenland and has worked very well. It's also a follow-up. When police have been called at home, further visits are made, discussed with the children, discussed with the parents, why this happened. People have come to realize what they have been doing with their children in the home. One of the most important things for me is the financial support of parents of disabled and long - suffering children. Many parents have said that when their child is born with a certain disability, they often have to put their lives on hold, depending on the severity of their disability. But here it is spoken of making it possible for them to get a job or study, even if they accept care. Children's manager has also noted that when it comes to disabled children living in two homes, it can limit children's right to associate with both parents. Caring equipment and even the child himself can be difficult to transport. The bioavailability may not be as good in both locations. I feel that it is necessary to meet the parents who want to improve the situation in order to have more dealings with their children than financial matters may not allow. Then there is the organized schedule for vacation time outside school, which is part of D.1. What I came across when I arrived here in high school was that the access to leisure work in the capital area is not very open to children at 16◯18 years of age, i.e. to children from abroad to Reykjavík. Now I don't know if this is the way it is in other societies, too, or if it has improved since then, but it's very important that we keep our arms around children, who are at the critical point of being leaving home. Their lives are changing. If they have had a certain leisure activity in their home, and they want to continue to do so when they go to school elsewhere, they need to be sure of safe access. Here, children of foreign origin are mentioned in the form of leisure activities. Many things can be very exotic to their family, e.g. Racing trips. Also, exercise is in the evening. It has been said that sending the child out at night is a little strange to them. And I also know a problem where kids come here and don't get a social security number right away, so they don't get to play in sports. This has happened, at least knowing me, at soccer, and during further notice, it has been found that this is now being discussed at the scene. FFA and other partners. But I think we could be one of the nations to take progressive steps in making sure that the children who come here and are not already with the Icelandic social security number are allowed access to a particular leisure job and are able to compete with their peers, their peers, and their friends. But all of a sudden, I can't help but see that it's a very good plan, since it's done well with the follow-up to be done. To Unit C.4. is a matter of great interest to me, i.e. The rules of action against harassment and the premium of harassment. I don't think this group of paintings has been a bit of an elbow child lately. We may not have focused on him enough. We hear of all too young children who are being harassed and feel unable to cope with life as they do because they have to deal with it every day. I believe this has become an absolute national agreement for us, one of the things we should look to when talking about mental health and well - being of children, the safe environment for which we should provide them at home, at school, in leisure work, and elsewhere. I hope that the pre-school professional advice will be provided some sort of work and measurable success and will soon be set up as a pre-school professional. It's amazing, though, to see children in high school. They often have no distinction as to whether a friend of a foreign background is broken or in a wheelchair. In any case, I think we need to focus on basic and high school because some stirrs can play into the child's emotional state. In education for children about alcohol and drugs, there's a lot of work to do at this point. They are in middle school and high school, and they talk to their children. But what we've talked about at the General Assembly on allowing alcohol at grocery stores, giving free market, I think it's against what comes from the Allied Council of Iceland, if we're going to let the alcohol into stores, and at the same time talk about good results in the prevention and management of alcohol problems in Iceland. Then there's the Internet. I want this program to encourage parents to study parental protection. How often you hear parents say that children have been at home with friends or even in their own home computer, where they have gone to places that have even appeared as fountain windows of other video sites and are inappropriate! The parents can be very effective in managing this if they are interested and can study the matter very carefully to help, because school is not the only place children can get into computers. School is not the only place to handle this. It's good to have your parents with you. Then there is the education on sexual health and pornography. I think it is very important that equal education is also included in this educational work, for if children and young people are taught to evaluate one another on equal terms, to view each other as independent persons, to teach sex health practices through peer instruction, I believe that we will be successful in reducing the challenge and the sexual harassment that is often caused by misunderstandings, just because of ignorance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u39	Mr. President. I come up here to celebrate this course from the highest level. Social Ministers and believe this to be a great improvement and a long time for us to make a clear, consistent family policy with emphasis on children and children's families. Perhaps no one has overlooked that at the council, I have had a bit of interest in the affairs of children and young people and how we can create a community of equality that takes special care of children. Despite the fact that many of these things are very good in Iceland when it comes to the affairs of children, there are also many pots broken. We need to work very hard to eliminate, for example. poverty in children. I mentioned in a speech this morning that the figures speak their language. A report published in February shows that there are over 6,000 children in this country who suffer a physical shortage. Of these, there are 1,600 who suffer severe deficiency. It's too much. I hope this policy gets coverage and it's approved, even though I'm aware, as it was stated in the case of the day. All the spears of the highest are standing before the council. Minister of Social Affairs. Which I think isn't fair, but it's different now. I certainly hope that this will get a success, for this is without question one of the most important issues we will discuss at the council. We'll discuss economic matters that are naturally important, and beyond the streets, but we'll do too little to talk about the children's issues and how we're supposed to improve the laws and laws so that children can be the best. By permission of the president, it says that a major goal of family policy will be that the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, the Children's Department, is introduced into all legal arrangements and implements. That's a great goal. That's what we're supposed to do. Children and young people should always be the first thing we talk about when we make laws. How this affects children and how it works best for children. As I say, there's a lot of things in this, I haven't read the proposal all but in a hurry. It all seems to me like a very reasonable matter, and a very good policy which we should be able to combine to implement after working on a welfare committee. I sure hope so, I don't know if she'll be approved at this brief council here this fall, that at least she'll be finished at the next council and accepted from this council. Because while I don't want any place in the community, children are the most important possessions we have. They're the ones who take the nest off us. We are to make all laws and all the environment and their circumstances so that they can take on a good farm and be ready to live in human society, where rights and rights are guided by human rights and rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-19-136.u40	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the discussion. It will be interesting to observe the welfare committee coverage on this big and important subject. What I wanted to end up with is this assessment by UNICEF that examined children in Iceland was one of the findings that was so successful when men started digging into the numbers and who children are the ones that have the worst significance of equalizing support to families regardless of their position, looking at their economic situation. It was shocking to see that there were parents'children, since even two parents were at home with the lowest income in the job market, which seemed to be suffering the greatest economic shortage. It tells us that we have a lot of attention to our support systems, to change, as I have noted, to be child reformed, to look at ideas that may include. The labor movement has spoken of the recording of child insurance and since the support we provide, once again, comparable regardless of the type of farm life we live in. Other than that, I thank you very much for this discussion. I would also like to use this opportunity to thank all those who have come to the work of the case, the members of the Ministry, the members of the Committee, and especially the head of the Committee, who shaped the family policy, the Guðrún - fearing Waldorsdur's Valdimarsdóttir.
