ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u1	Yesterday, Gunnar I. Guðmundsson's seat, 1st deputy of the Northwestern Pirata art, took over at the General Assembly. Gunnar I.. The son of Guðmundsson has already been investigated and agreed, but he has not taken his place before in the Council and must sign his pledge to the Constitution. I'd like to ask the General's office manager to move it. A senator's pledge to sign.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u2	Gunnar I. Guðmundsson has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to join the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u3	Last night the President came from Porta Congress on the switch to the Economic and Business Committee, such as the 16th Article. The conference on human exchange in committees, so that Smári Mccarthy takes the seat of Eva Baldursdóttir Baldursdótttir and Thorldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, who serves as a replacement of the committee, will take the seat of Smári Mccarthyr.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u4	Where No. 6 On the State Department of Pension, this morning from the Committee, President is going to set up a new meeting in the afternoon and take that matter on schedule. The meetings will be briefly interrupted so that members of Congress can meet, and at the beginning of the second meeting, a vote would be made both for the variations of a new Senate document in the Pentateuch and for the votes of the 2rd district. on the topic of this meeting, the case of No. Seven about a dresser.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u5	A respectable president. The Commission has discussed the matter and received to her meeting with Björn Rögnvaldsson and Sigurður Helgason from the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs, Magnús K. Ólafur Sigurðsson of the National Association of Iceland, Þór Hermannsdóttir and Jónas Guðmundsson from the Council of Hjörtur Bragi Sverrisson, for the Nanna Magnadóttir of the Environment and Resource Commission. The bill of the same material was submitted to the 145th legislation, but it was not completed, and received the reviews of the Allied Association of Iceland, the Alliance of Colleges, the Association of State and Towns, the Bank Commission, the Commission's Directorates of Social Services, the Directorates of the Board of Education, the Directors of Staff, the Directorates of Governments, the Commission of the Environment and Resources, the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Directors of Social Affairs, the University of Iceland, the Ministers of Congress, Iceland's Police Association, the National Association, the United States's Association, Customs Association, Professional Services, and National Service. The bill suggests a new overall law on dress code, as well as the proposed changes to other laws, such as laws on the rights and duties of the employees of the state. It is suggested that they will be significantly reduced in terms of pay and other remunerations. Therefore, there will be the wages of officials, governors, and others who will be ruled by the Council of Cathedar in a way that is not present today. The objective of the bill is to increase the number of people who take the pay per contract according to standard contract and, on the other hand, that those who are unable to negotiate pay normally have more access to matters when making decisions about pay and their remuneration. The evidence that a certain office falls under the decision of an independent decision is their speciality according to a constitution or that the nature of the job is not considered to be the preferred procedure for the remuneration. If the bill is legal, the Council of Justice, Justice, Minister, Ministry, and Presidential Editor will continue to decide the salary and the remuneration of the people. At the same time, the board of advice will determine the salary and employment of the prosecutor, the bank manager, the help of the bank manager and the state of statehood. According to Article 1. The bill is therefore the highest executives of the nation who fall under the pay of the Council of Elders, as well as the officials, who may not be able to dictate contracts normally because of the nature of the profession or the status of the contract. Since the bill was last submitted, presidents have been added to the list of those who are subject to the decision of the CREEP Council, for which he is responsible for the operation of the office and is the chief confidant of the president and spokesman. Other changes from the fact that the bill was last submitted are decoupling a source in Article 5. the bill that a panel can decide that pay will be made annually according to the index that describes the development of public employees' pay. The revised wording is also suggested in Figure 1. &lt; 0.001a &lt; 0.001a &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.001, &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.001, &lt; 0.001, &lt; 0.001, &lt; 0.001, &lt; 0.001, &lt; 0.0001 &lt; 0.001, &lt; 0.001. deals with the Fégment of the heads of state, on the basis of the classification of services, and on the basis of the Commission's work. In addition, correction of the wording of a law for temporary purposes is suggested to add a paragraph on the rights of the current bank manager and the help of bank managers for sufficiency and pension. This change is proposed to vote for an office manager at the Iceland Board of Directors and ambassador for a bargain agreement. However, these office managers will agree with the decision of a court of honor which will be heard by the minister of the government's staff case and will represent the Minister on the basis of a collective agreement. It is also suggested that the minister or specific unit be responsible for the financial and economic secretary's responsibility on the basis of the basic labour categories and the grounds for the subclasses, as well as the premiums for the added officials and management. It is suggested that the executives of the unions of the exclusive rights that are largely owned by the State will be established by the government on the basis of government policy and government policy. At the same time, it is suggested that a bishop, a bishop, a bishop's bishop, the most testicipant, and the church's clergy attack contracts within the church, but it is preliminaryly proposed that they be heard under the advice of the Cathedral until a deal has been reached with the National Church on a new remuneration arrangement. In the 3rd. the bill is a set of regulations that are comparable to those in the current law and should ensure the professional working practices of a fool's board. It is requested that advice be applied to the necessary data and can require verbal and written reports of employees and employees who are paid by the council decision. Then special - trained men can be hired to work in behalf of the council. The bill suggests a new remuneration program for officials appointed by Ministers who do not have special positions with the executives and institutions appointed by Minister or Government and are listed in the so - called management list. The requirement for the new remuneration system in the laws on the rights and duties of the servants of the state is that a minister or a special unit determine the number of basic labour classes. Further changes in the rights and duties of the servants of the State are also provided, with provisions aimed at increasing the mobility of employees and officials in the work and the regulations for the Commission's office. The rest of the part suggests a few changes to the bill. First, it is suggested, in order to appoint the Council's position, that it be mentioned in Article 1. that advice is a administrative committee that decides the salary and the remuneration of those listed. Second, it is suggested that the council determine the salary and the remuneration of ambassadors and prime officers of the Independent Commission. Third, correction on 8. the bill that aims to add the Presidency Committee to the list of a- and b- space 1st Figures 1. a law). Fourth, it is suggested that the U.S. head of state reexamination and the U.S. Marshal be removed from a list at 2 mgr. 1st Number G-type 1. Figure 8 paragraph. As 1 mgr., the arrangement goes on for the prime committee to determine the salary of the Generalist. 13th par. Act of the Generals' agent, as well as of the 20th section of Article 8. The bill is suggested that the Presidency Committee determine the salary of a state accountant. Fifthly, a change in the h- team 1 is put in section 8. to make ambassadors officers out of their hours. The rest of the part suggests that the bill will be approved by the following change I've traced here, but I'll do it again in order to be perfectly clear: 1st We're on 1st. a. Instead of the words, "The value of a dresser's advice is to make a decision: The Council is the administrative committee to decide. b. Following the word, Mr. Secretary, come to me: ambassador. c. Adding to this, the Council of Environment and Resources also decides the salary and the remuneration of the head of the Treaty, the Commission of Environment and Resources, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Social Affairs Committee. 2. At eight o'clock. a. Following the words of the "Second Minister's Minister's Office in the 1st Team come: Presidency Committee. b. To a team 1 adds up: unless there's another way through the law. c. Following the words of the "Second Minister's Minister's Office in Unit 1 will arrive: Presidency Committee. d. e. g. The word, ambassadors to the subsequent administrations of the "F" 1st Team will fall away. ........................... 1st gear, Unit 1st, fall away. The 1st Act of Materials puts it this way: Those who have been appointed representatives for the validation of these laws continue to share the same rights and have the same duties as officials, according to II. part of the layer of these ones. G. 5, 6, 10 and 16. Under the opinion of this publication, why not? paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson in advance. Hv. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason was away from the hearing. Besides me, a senior authority, it's the opinion of this man. Councilmen of Benedikt Jóhannesson, Chairman Arnardóttir Lára Eagledoir, daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, Logi Einarsson, and Sigríður Á. Andersen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u6	A respectable president. This may not be a personal answer, but it says that Vilhjálmur Bjarnason was absent from the case. It may be true that I was absent during the minute that the case was taken up, but before I had to replace a meeting, I described myself as an approved member of the committee and a change in the motions. So the way I feel about my position in this case isn't right for me to know, I had declared my opinion, and I should have said that I had agreed to a committee and a change in the rules of Congress. I want to have the rights and do no comment to this other than that I feel that there is even no need to make a special decision that a concierge is a administrative committee that decides, etc., that leads to the nature of the case. I declare I agree to this committee party with them a little in advance, but this will lead to my vote on the case, so it's not a rebellion. I will finish my case. I will not expect an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u7	A respectable president. I heard you were there. A senator did not expect me to answer, but I merely represent them in the same sense. I remember that night. A senator was an accomplice, as he puts it, this bill. He refers to the chairman of the committee or anyone needed if he wants to sign something more clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u8	Mr. President. I want to thank you for your storyteller. Pirats and I gave this bill a minor opinion because we had a lot to do with it. Especially did we not think that the work of a dresser was too far off in ensuring transparency. That's why I wanted to ask. paritaprevir In what sense does Ólafsdóttir believe that this bill improves the policy of communicative management of transparency and public access to information about how a dresser board operates and how it gets to its results. As I would like to ask: What evidence was there that the wage of those in charge should not exceed the salary of prime ministers?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u9	A respectable president. About the second half of questions. I'll admit that I don't remember exactly what's behind because Prime Minister's salary isn't exactly the upper limit right now, I'm quite honest with you. Then I want to thank you. A senator for a very good job on the committee, her comments, and Pirata were very helpful, and many were taken into the majority opinion, as she knows. I'm sorry we haven't been able to reach a common conclusion by using the final product. Since she asks how I believe that the bioavailability of the public and the transparency of a dresser's board is improved, I think, 4. the bill, on pay decisions, is a great improvement. It describes how a man's advice to find out his results in a different way than before. It contains a specific transparency and explanation. Then you can ask yourself: " Is the advice of a dresser something like that? to present their meeting plans publicly on the web. I understand it's not customary to put such conditions in the lyrics of the law, but it's probably a look if the Pirates would like to offer it as a suggestion. I haven't seen the minority, I haven't had time to do that, but I understand that the Pirats are thinking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u10	Mr. President. I appreciate those answers. True, we intend to make an official statement to the U.S. Board of Booths. Similarly, we would like to suggest that the advice of a dresser should be published publicly. I'd like to get an answer from a storyteller about why more things go wrong. The Porta's proposal against the official registration of stakeholders' stakeholders.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u11	Senators may not be able to resist a new form of change that has not yet been established. This was certainly discussed on the committee, but there was no agreement. I can't answer for other members of the council there, but I certainly feel that having interest in all public jobs is an improvement. In this regard, transparency is important. I'd like to see what it's like exactly how to apply Porta's suggestions so that I can take my stand for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u12	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council and the chairman of the case, Björt Ólafsdóttir, whether she has followed the talks in the 1st. and I heard what I was pointing to, i.e. that in the bill it is a requirement in the report, that the advice of a dresser should always take into account general development, a much weaker and thus support poorly - you can view that there is not much behind it when it is said to take into account general pay development. When you looked at the report at the time of the Kjara Court and were being converted into a sludge, laws were presented clearly that were not to exceed the general pay grade and were mentioned as frames. It was particularly important that internal harmony and outwardness be taken into account but never exceed that point. That law isn't inside the new bill. This is a complete review of the law, which means that since the old report doesn't go along, even if you have the same lyrics, you don't get the same effect. Today, we have a weak influence, so the advice of counsel made a decision that exceeded general pay development and, as a result, likely broke a law when it greatly increased the salary of the senators on the election day. Today, the law is being weakened so that advice can be done without breaking a law, so that it does not contain protection. We know exactly what happened afterward, and the workforce's entire organization said there was a risk of a labour market resolution in case the Allied didn't react. And now the Council is there something to do, and how do they respond? To weaken the ability to stem the possibility of such a crazy decision and thus create a threat of a workforce resolution. I've had it confirmed by the labour market that this is a weakness of this law. Pirat and I are ready to make a change. We spoke about her after a discussion on the committee. I want to ask you why. A manager, Björt Ólafsdóttir, whether he agrees that we will provide special guarantees and that we can get an association in a workforce, ASI and SA, to give a review of it. I'd also like to ask the Ministry if we can guarantee it by law, that there's a framework that a board of dressers can't raise our salary beyond the general salary development in the labour market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u13	A respectable president. I don't think we members of the Committee can change this report from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u14	You can accept new proposals as...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u15	We can't change this report from the Ministry, but we can adapt to the bill itself and it's like this, 4. ......... I'm going to read the article as far as it goes. A senator brings up the following: ▪ When deciding the pay will be decided by the competent authority, it should be taken into account that these are in accordance with society's salary at any given time. To this end, the advice should be followed and the assessment of collective contracts and general pay development. Then is added here, and it's new, depending on the firms of industry and others: A board of directors should always take into account the general development of a layman. However, it is permitted to decide that salary will take on a yearly change, this is important, that we are just making sure that a dresser's advice is not in his business to take a big leap as we saw it last time. I'm not gonna apologize. That is exactly what we do not want to do. It is up to a Council to determine annual decisions according to land conditions. It's very clear to me on the 4th. The bill, and it's really good because we don't want to get in this situation. They asked themselves, " What's going on here? ' Looking back from 2013, this is something very different from what is happening in general. Some said, "Yes, but look at the pay from 2006, and there's some line to which you can aim. " Now I don't know anything, because I'm not in the board, what that exactly means, right there. If you pull the line from 2006, it's in some way, I understand, more. But on the 4th floor. I hope we're making sure this happens again. Being a senator is not comfortable and has to live in a town where people decide your salary, and you can't be comfortable with the way that it was done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Now we're fixing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u16	Mr. President. Okay, we all seem to agree that the main purpose of this report should hopefully become, like the driving. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir says that this framework is not exceeded, i.e. general workforce development. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator again. Now we've spoken to a whole organization and found that this frame doesn't fit well enough. So, then, do we not agree to just keep working on changing the bill to make sure it's well framed in so that we don't get back into this? Otherwise, we are faced with the possibility that we might come back in this problem. If the purpose appears to be this, at least expressed as the purpose, should we not be sure of it and be fully aware of it from an organization? That's how my proposal for Pirata is because of what it's all about. The senator spoke of taking into consideration, as mentioned in his first speech. If people don't have support in a report on what it means in the current law, it's not strong enough. Our proposal is: The Council of Directors shall not raise the remuneration of those to whom the Council decides pay for beyond the general development of the labour market. Thus it was the phrase, the frame in, and the workforce needs to be asked if it is strong enough to avoid it because they could avoid it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u17	A respectable president. Now we're talking about the change here. I'm going to read it again: ▪ When deciding the pay will be decided by the competent authority, it should be taken into account that these are in accordance with society's salary at any given time. I don't think there's any strong wording. The committee met with the organization as a matter of course. A senator spoke of this relief, and he thought it was especially good that we were bringing it into law that the advice of the U.S.A. would adjust his decision on the minimum of one year's psoriasis.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u18	A respectable president. I'm here speaking on behalf of Pirata and as an representative of Porta on the Economic and Business Committee. Although I've been taking over now as the understudy of Smári Mccarthyr in a financial and commercial committee, I was sitting there as an innkeeper for a dresser's advice because I'm particularly interested in that case. I have studied the bill well, and I find it to some extent improving, such as to the point that a bull's council is obliged to publish details of the groups it uses to assess the salary of the senators, judges, and other leading rulers of the country. However, I still feel that there is a considerable lack of transparency. Maybe I'll come in better after that. On the other hand, I would like to thank the board for her cooperation. I'm glad that my proposal to the Pirata and me is that an independent administrative committee has made its way into the majority opinion. I feel that it is very important to know, since there have been some doubts and questions about whether these have come up with a view to the committee. Not everyone agrees on whether a board of dressers is a general and ordinary administrative committee to obey administrative and information laws like any other committee, or not. I feel greatly improved that now we have taken no doubt and that it is no longer possible to escape the demands of this administrative committee, informing the public about the work of the Committee, that he would like to know something about them, and to answer e.g. Us senators who have signed a formal inquiry as a member of the administrative law to get some questions about how the Board of Elders came to the conclusion that we were looking for. Councilmen here the other day. Pirates and I have offered minor opinion. I've been thinking about reading it to people. Congress, by permission of the President: ▪ The others feel that there are a number of changes to the bill. First of all, the memory feels normal to validate skills for those appointed in a dress code. The minority feels that it should be determined by individuals who have an understanding of work markets and salary levels and who have come to the check of pay decisions. The minority feels that it is normal to ensure that the Council shall include representatives with experience in the above and the type of collective agreements. It has been observed that the precise definition of qualifications is too blocked by a directive in the board, as the bill states that the management of expert knowledge is also possible. The smaller section considers it important to ensure that people with diverse background and clear understanding of a public labour market. Therefore, the reminder given by the Council of Congress suggests that the following qualifications are met by two of them: that there are good experience in and knowledge of contracts made by both the general and the public labour markets. It is preferable that the third person had experience with the head management of a large company in a public market or in a public institution. The smaller portion thinks it is unacceptable that the advice of a dresser is as transparent as it really is. In general, the public has little or no access to information about how the board operates or how it is appointed. So the smaller section suggests that a board of men should be published publicly in order to help the public understand the activities of the council. In handling the case of the committee, it was found that a panel of testimonials is a special index for the advice given by Iceland's Habitat Office. The smaller section feels that working on the calculation of this index will be more transparent. Council plays an important role, i.e. to determine the pay of the highest government officials, including Judge and General Assemblymen. So the minority feels right that stewards will publish their interest logs in an open and accessible way in order to increase transparency and trust in the legal realm. So the smaller section suggests a change in the 5th paragraph. In the event that the Council of Elders should publish their interest logs in an open and accessible manner. This arrangement is designed to further ensure that the Council's independence from the parties when determining their terms. Four. Section 4. The bill insists that the Council of fools in their decisions always takes into account general employment development. A discussion on the subject of the committee pointed out that it was appropriate to better frame what is included in this subject. The same provision was found in Article 5. Laws on Kjara and the Snare Committee, No. 120/1992, and in comments to the bill that turned to that law, the following was observed: 'The number of government officials who should be paid on Kjarasday's decision is greatly reduced. Thus, the changes that Kjara's decision may make cannot make a big difference in the expenses and resources of a government fund. On the other hand, some of the decision given by the Commission can be taken into account in addition to the likely outcome of the Kjara Court in making agreements for the majority of employees. It is recognized as the need for stability in the nation's economy and the value of a modest increase in pay. It is very important to maintain this stability and solidarity that is achieved at the labour market at any given time. Therefore, it would be proper to set the rules specified in Article 2 to take into account the trend in a labour market so that the decision of the Kjara Court is not to compromise the collective agreements of the majority of employees, thus putting economic stability at risk. In addition, this law includes the fact that the Republic of Israel must, in this way, be taken into account pay and change in the labour market, which is due to the improvement of the population, although these changes are not supported by collective agreements. Therefore, a court of law should take into account pay policies in the labour market rather than shape them. Furthermore, in comments to the bill that became the current law: "In other words, this law was intended to be a general basis for the decisions of Kjara's decisions based on efforts to ensure both internal and external harmony in the Kjarast decision decisions. The bill on the Council of Mensula, as explained here, follows the same policy and, in fact, is established by the second paragraph 8 paragraph. The bill is even more clear on this subject, but it states: the Council of Justice should always take into account the general development of the dress code in the labour market, to be taken into account. In order to emphasize that this is a general reference but not a unique reference to comparable work in the labour market, the workforce is referred to as a general trend in the labour market, as well as a requirement for this view to always be cared for. The smaller section suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: To the 1st issue of 2 mg. 2.g. Then add: and two of them [i.e. The managers of the Board of Elders have good experience and knowledge of the preparation of collective and public labour contracts. After the 1st issue, 2 mg. 2.g. come up with a new case, as follows: It is preferable that the third person has experience in a large company on the market or in a public agency. So also the 1st sentence, 4 mg. Section 4. As stated: The Commission shall not raise the salary of those whom the board decides to pay for beyond the general development of the labour market. Five o'clock. a: Prior to 1 mgr. If a new paragraph comes, as follows: Councilmen shall openly and readily publish their application form. It also adds a new paragraph: The meeting of a dresser's Council shall be published in a public and accessible manner. Mr. President. We believe that with these adjustments, the level of transparency that should exist on the advice that determines the pay of the nation's highest officials can be further enhanced. As the situation is now, it is really impossible for the public to realize how a dress board operates, depending on its standards, which views are in place, who actually works for advice, how much money they earn for it, what relationship they have to the labour market, with a judge, with the other highest officials who determine the salary for, what interests they have. None of the above are taken into the new law on the advice of the dresser. I must declare my frustration that there was no greater will for those who offer this bill to develop here a transparency against the Council of Cathedral that has been heard from a large part of the U.S.A. that one of the main objectives of this adjustment must be to promote transparency in the work of a manure board. Rather than resorting directly to the decision of a court order that now fell into the ideal day, it would be much better to promote only the transparency of the Board of Elders. In that light, Mr. President, I feel a little discouraged that I have not been able to agree on the committee that at least the Cabinet Council should be. Display conferences and renaming. I would now have thought that the interest log should be published by those who determine the salary of the highest in society, so the public should have access to it. I just think that's what it's all about. For other forms of change, there will be a difference. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson will discuss them considerably better below. I'm going to finish my case by encouraging that. All members of Congress look at the changes made by Pirantar and see if they are not allowed to become part of the bill to ensure greater access to public information, to ensure a better transparent dresser council to the public and to us under the council. At last, I'm glad that at least there's a golden guarantee that a dresser's council must follow administrative laws and information laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u19	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator, it's important to increase the transparency of a collective body like any other member of the administration board. It made me happy, for example. Especially when I saw in the bill that section 8. it is stated that a minister will gather and publish each year the data of their total wage falling under the tip of the bill of recommendation, because a significant number of people need to dig through a stack of pdf documents on the website of a dresser council to see what the status of this group's salary is. I think that if we could see this list in one place, we might even be shocked to see how many people are under the advice of a man who has a pretty good salary. It's not just us senators who make a lot of money through a sludge, but a lot of others. Then, like the senator, I'd like to rejoice that the Cabinet Council is a administrative committee with access to data assured. This is one of those sites where fences are no longer built for information. I'd also like to celebrate the renovation of interest, because, of course, it belongs here, like in the Supreme Court, like with members of Congress and elsewhere. I'd like to ask you what. A senator about two things in her suggestions. As for the promissiveness of the two contemperies to have experience and knowledge of the preparation of a collective and public labour market: Isn't this getting a little narrow, as if I said I wanted a pet, it should be black and white, it should be a bird and should be an unsound bird, the senator is just asking for a penguin?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u20	A respectable president. I think penguins are very adorable. I wouldn't mind getting one of those. We may have failed to write the desired one. I think it is desirable that there are some kinds of qualifications for those appointed in a dress code, simply in order that we may not be over-employed and that we may have active individuals who have a real understanding of what is going on in the general labour market. However, the exact formula is discussed. As the situation is today, there are exactly no qualifications. There was no sound basis for setting minimum conditions here, for those appointed in a dress code to have the qualifications and/or education that benefit them in their profession. Since I didn't get it through, I decided to go all the way and bring a list of how to make a dresser's plan, on the other hand, about the order of the General Assembly, because I can't forget that the Minister of finance and the Supreme Court allows each to continue in this legal act that has been going on in the council for the past year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u21	A respectable president. I agree with the senator that we don't need lawyers in all our jobs, but I'm a little scared, because we have this much downkilled qualifications, that we'd have to try it to be a small group. The previous proposal of the senator will help me to see that this is spoken only beyond that, that there is a term of ability and experience involved. There are many people who come to a decision to pay in a public and public employment market that would not have an education that would fit into the narrow frame of law, a large number of union workers in many countries that are just people from the floor. I wouldn't want to see this text close to the possibility of such individuals to get into the advice beyond the dobian lawyers who always wait on the sideline.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u22	Mr. President. So I have only a reason for this change and why we want to put the qualifications of a dresser board on them now, so that the General Court, the Supreme Court, and the secretary of finance are not required to explain in any way why they claim to be the members of the company they claim in the Council of Mensaves. I've searched, it might be that I need to look better, Mr. President, and not find evidence to support why exactly the stewards of the Council who sit there today were appointed, what ability they have to sit in the council, and why they are desirable to determine the salary of the highest officials of the state. That those who were born in a court of honors would simply be able to access some kind of information about why they were appointed above someone else. I think it is possible to discuss accurate wording with the qualifications to set. The most important thing to me is that those in charge need to provide some sort of argument and to promote and, in fact, have to be responsible for their views, why they consider one individual more qualified than another to be a member of this important body.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u23	Mr. President. I would like to ask that the members of this case - because it seems that they have not been well enough to do so, and the Committee does not have enough controversies for changes now under discussion - or at the highest level. Let the secretary of finance come and see 2nd. Um, which is the keynote address on this subject. He may not be aware of this, but it would be good to know. It would also be good to ask him if he is not able to see the benefits of these changes. He himself spoke of it, when the Council of Cathedral raised its salary on a election day, when asked: Well, I had already proposed a bill that the advice of a dresser had to be fixed. But this bill, which he will once again does not provide well enough for, according to the bodies we've talked about in a labour market, can make such a decision again. We need to be able to have a word with a minister on these and other factors, further transparency, etc. I'm asking the President to request the highest order. Bjarni son of Benediktsson's finance minister, come and listen and participate in the discussion of his case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u24	The President would like to inform us that the bill we are discussing now is a Senate bill, taken by the presidents of six political parties. One down. A senator who carries the bill is certainly the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson's financial and economic secretary, who stands for the bill as a member of Congress as well as the heads of other classes. Still, it is easy to share the information at the highest level. The secretary of finance and economics that his presence was requested in the Assembly Hall, but the position of the bill being the one the president has traced.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u25	A respectable president. I come up here to present a tip to the Economic and Business Committee, hoping that the Committee can consider it between 2 and 3. Um... to add one person. It is now being suggested that the judges of the courts, the ones we generally speak of as courts, be under the advisers of the court. However, I would like to point out that we have more courts, including social society, which I thought would be normal to hear under the advice of a man. There have been indications from GRECO regarding independence and social transparency. I believe that one of the things that would have to be adjusted to ensure the independence of the court is that the pay of a social judge is not determined directly by a minister right now. It would be normal for decisions regarding this matter to be also taken by the Board of Elders, just as is being put aside here to make changes to one of the largest decision - making committees of the Board of Directors, the Department of Health. I think all of us who have been involved in the workforce know very well how much and how important the judgments in social matters are and therefore it would be normal to put that sentence under the advice of the decision as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u26	A respectable president. I wanted to respond to this at the highest. Minister. I'm sure I'd like to take a good look at this. It's as if someone named lapsus had been about this in the literature of the plot. At work at the Committee, we accepted the decision - making committees because they are not inferior to governmental authority. So we think it's right that they're under the advice of men, not under the ministry. The same is true of the highest. Minister calling. Therefore, I suggest that we take the matter into account between the 2nd and the 3rd. And we'll sort it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u27	A respectable president. I thank you very much for that answer, and I am so happy to hear that the committee is planning to consider this. We've been responding to indications that have come from GRECO. It's spoken here, for example. on interest log. We have discussed what is generally involved in the registration of judges and senators and what we can do better. So I think there's a great deal of pressure on the advice of men and the ones it's decided to take into account these indications.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u28	A respectable president. I thank you for the work that has been done in this case, especially I thank you very much. paritaprevir Thorhldur Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir, who was a substitute man. paritaprevir Eva Pandora Baldursdóttir and then mine, of the Committee that covered the case. The majority of the committee's opinion is extremely good, perhaps reaching some of the proposed goals. But when you ask about the goals involved, perhaps the main goal was to achieve a transparent and better operation in the Cabinet Council. In part, it was because on the day of the election, members received a tremendous increase in wages and found it normal to respond to, as well as to that increase not only, but also to other increases in the advice of dressers in the past. It's clear that if we don't take over the transparency rules, we can't be said to be achieving the goals we're achieving. The second decisions made by a conquistador will be similar; it will not be clear how they come to the conclusions they find at each time. That's pretty bad. My primary question is whether we will achieve our goals in any way. It is not obvious that we will achieve the objective of fairness and better practice in a collective body if we take into account only the review of the majority of the committee, but if the minor opinion is taken from the point of view. Pirat's senator, Thorhildi Sunna Ævarsdóttir, is also taken into consideration, and both of these are far better off in reaching our goals. It is quite clear that whether we talk about qualifications or transparency in activities, that there are interest logs and so on, we will be able to achieve our aims by taking them all along.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u29	V.E.G. President. I'm at the Committee on the Economic and Business Committee for Attention. What's happening to me in this case is a change in proposal for an independent administrative committee. This was much discussed in the Committee, and it seems who it is. The reason for my objection to this is that those who decide the salary and the elected judge cannot be on the basis of the European Commission can't be in a administrative agency and, as a result, part of the enterprise and should be determined by the judge's salary. It simply can't resist a constitution. As to reviewing a sentence laid down after the Council decided in its time, it is true to ignore the legal conclusions of old Kjara's decision on the decision of the court of 2006. Then one of the judges appealed to a case and referred to Article 2. and 59th pars. The Constitution on the independence of the courts and the separation of the state. I think we need to take a closer look before this route. There's not a great deal of trouble. If we're caught off to the Commission's advice, we're part of the European Commission, and that means that it's in full control of administrative regulations and information laws and other laws as applicable to the execution of the Agency. This discussion was conducted when the Council of Mentions and apparently men were in great trouble with it and had decided not to have a posetive law that this was a regular administrative committee. They believed that the advice of a fool should be rather a sort of independent statement, but it clearly did not take sides. Here, it seems that the majority of the Committee would like to take a stand for this to be a administrative committee that will be of value to them on the terms of the administrative laws and information laws in that it is not simply limited by the Council of CREEP. I'd like to ask the U.S. Congress to take a closer look. I'll request a vote in particular for this. The case goes back to the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. and I would like to take this discussion over again, consider the matter better, leave out this law, at least for now, as we discuss exactly whether this will be carried out by the constitution in the light of the proposed judgment, probably sometime during 2007 rather than 2008, and will take a closer look at this. Other than that, I agree with the committee. Of course, the proposal to keep couriers and the independent ruling committees inside is controversial. As we have seen, I myself am very against these independent committees. I think there's a reason why the Council reviewed the Board of Directors and gave up authority to the unsupervised people in town, as I call it, that doesn't have to be responsible. It must not be forgotten that according to the Constitution a minister is responsible for all the cases under which he hears. It claims itself that when a minister does not have it and that such administrative committees are not charges against ministers, he cannot be responsible for it. He does not even determine who are selected in these committees. The development has taken place in Iceland to move the European Commission into town. It is as if humans found it more comfortable to take the least responsibility for any act of government. In the end, only the Ministry would be a government minister. This is what I think we need to turn around. I think it's important that we do that work sooner than later, so we have a very powerful Ministry, which is the final ruling officer in the administration board, but not that it's in the hands of people who have no authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u30	A respectable president. I find an interesting idea to try to reverse the process of excommunicating the company in town, but still the law says today, if I do not forget, the word: and other administrative committees. This, then, is likely to be a administrative committee today. However, there seems to be a lack of some understanding that this is a administrative committee and is therefore expected to be under administrative law, information law, and so forth. It is not acceptable enough that such an important committee with such an important role in the career in such an ostentatious manner. If it does not agree with the general administration laws and under the laws on public information availability, there is a problem. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: If the committee is not part of the executive enterprise, where does it belong in the administrative system? Is it part of the legislature? Is it part of the court? If the committee is to be a judicious, is it not appropriate to address the issue of whether courts are not to fall to a greater degree than this, as has been grounds for a recent case of corruption in the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u31	V.E.G. President. I cannot see that a committee who has the responsibility to determine by certain laws and regulations is such a committee. Of course, advice is much more similar to a legal committee, or court, or court. I think it's much closer, rather than part of the European Commission by the Constitution, that it's an independent committee for specific procedures of procedure. Of course, we can have those rules so that we need more support, as is currently being done, and we can have those rules so that we need to publish them and that, publish a meeting. We can also say that about the courts. But in any case, when legal decisions are decided, they express themselves by their decisions and judgments. So I don't think it's advisable to make a recommendation to the normal part of the enterprise. Of course, we can later decide that the advice of a fool should do the other thing and publish it. There's no problem. But we're not supposed to make it an independent administrative committee, dot. I think we're creating more problems than we're going to solve.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yet, I feel that I lack the answer in which it was not clear whether it should be mentioned, which I do not know exactly where in the administration system, or judgment. It would be good to have it clearly. I feel like I've heard something. A senator speaks of the benefits of keeping law simple. If we are going to develop a special law on transparency in the management of this committee, is it not just a double effort on the current information law and on government laws? Would it not be beneficial to agree with them in some way? Perhaps we can agree that the advice of a fool is some sort of judicial case or similar. Then again the question: Don't courts also live under it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u33	V.E.G. President. In itself, I don't think courts should hear under there and not such judges. But we can have clear rules on the treatment of the matter. There are, of course, rules also in the courts on the issue of judgment, as shown in the release of judgments. It can refer to such a committee. I'm thinking about the shape out there. Form is important, i.e. that the Court is not subject to the Commission decision and the rules of action to determine the salary of the judges. There must be some independent party, whether we call him a person named or a judicial committee or whatever, which applies to specific rules that we can decide what to do. But I don't think it's a good idea to go this way right now, to just decide that it's like any other authority on the European Commission, because it's not gonna work out. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u34	Mr. President. I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Brynjar's son's Níelsson as to whether he intends or wants to do this in his opinion will make a advice for orphans like that. The Council is not a court, a committee, or anything else that needs to be handled by someone other than the mnemonic rules we see in case management 5. this bill, which lies here on the possibility that there may be a bit of consultation with the individual remunerations it decides. There's much further guidelines here. But I reiterate that if we were discussing a court of law in the natural sense, it would apply to a court of law. Then those with the case would have the right to present their views, the right to contradict, the right to obtain all kinds of information and the right to discuss personally, in front of courts, the case of redemption. There's no such thing as this bill, Mr. President. Also, it is not an option to work as some black box that feels like it is the exception of having to answer the normal questions of public, stakeholders, and members of our council who are still waiting to hear the facts of the decision, any evidence, if so to be said, that the decision they made is the right one. Case data is presented in the courts. What rules of justice, then, should be applied to a man's advice?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u35	V.E.G. President. There are lots of orphans all over Iceland. Socialization is an orphan. It is filled with decision - making committees that are orphans. There are different guidelines for handling all these orphans and always valid. There's nothing wrong with that. This is very special because one aspect of the government is being decided. It is not normal for the execution, another factor, to determine the terms of the judges. It's this prince's dick I'm talking about. Let's not interfere with this discussion, for example. the rules of the court and the rest of the procedure. We will consider only the specific procedure and other rules for handling matters for these judges. We don't need to make this a regular management committee under the Commission. That doesn't make sense to me. I think the committee should revise this, take this law out between the 2nd and 3rd. Just keep it intact in this regard and then go over the exact rules we want to have. Of course, we are on this bill to make up for the transparency, the real criticism received by the Board of Elders. And I accept the criticism. It was not obvious how this was found. Now they're trying to get it right. It seems to me it's doing fine on the bill. But I'm warning you about this one thing. I think it's totally albino, and I think we should reevaluate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u36	Mr. President. I want to ask you why. A senator as to how he intends to ensure the security of the citizens and their real understanding of their rights to the council. If we're going to leave the Council as undefined orphans inside the law and then add some guidelines later in order to allow the public to learn more about how this advice works, I'll ask myself how it works. A senator believes that this is the way the city's rights are guaranteed. Socialization is at least defined as a judgment. A advice is not defined as any created thing at present. It would be fine if there was a name.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u37	V.E.G. President. I don't care about the vow and the name of it all. I'm just saying the change isn't working. If we want to take out the bill now, I suggest that it be taken out and then take a closer look at what we're going to do about it, or simply, don't do this bill now. Let's go over it better. Let's decide how we're going to have things, how we can guarantee that this is an independent committee, which is not under the Commission, but the value of a transparent lawsuit and enough information for the general public, that is much closer. I'm not asking for anything else. That's what I was asking for. Do not make a recommendation part of the European Commission because it is being determined on the terms of the second part of the government to be independent of the Constitution. We have to watch it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u38	Mr. President. I want to tell you a story. It was an election a few months ago. At the elected date - the same members of the draft board and the votes to follow them - the same day the salary of members of Congress is expected to increase by 47% if this year is taken. However, if you go back to 2006, where you have a reduction in the salary of members of Congress within it, around 2008◯2009, it is still an increase of 21% over the general labour market development. It's illegal under the law as it stands today. That's why I talked to a lawyer and I checked to see if I couldn't sue this case if it wasn't reversed, so it wouldn't cause them to have a problem they can't cause. There is no risk of disrupting the labour contracts of the majority of the employees. You can't do that. This is what the law says today. It's against the law. However, this is exactly what the National Association of Business and ASI say caused by the decision of this massive increase in pay. What happened next? As a result, teachers broke up, many teachers quit on account of the decision. At the same time, there was a chance for a strike to occur, and a rate of over 11% based on average wage, etc. This means that, in February, if the workforce decides to say that there is a higher level of agreement now, we're going to end our contracts, we're free, we have to renegotiate, otherwise we're going to have a strike crash in May. There's a workforce resolution. The Council made a legal decision, as it is today, but it created a risk of disrupting the collective agreements of the majority of the employees. Job conditions will be resolved. It is specifically stated in the law that this can cause economic instability. That's why you can't do this. But all of this should be removed. The bill we're talking about now from the highest. This is only to be removed by a merchant, a Bjarni son of Benediktsson, and by other members of the council. I spoke to my lawyer again this morning, and I'm going to take the steps that need to be taken to sue the advice of this decision. But if these laws become reality, the dear may stand, but if they make such an irresponsible decision again in the future, if these laws become reality, if we accept here at the councilroom, unchanged, which once again frames them not to do this, then advice can only make such a decision, and I or anyone else would not be able to sue it. It would no longer be illegal. It would no longer be illegal for them to cause a workforce resolution by their decisions. It is among the things that we senators are about to decide. I see at the top. Bjarni son of Benediktsson is now in the hall. Thank you so much for that. Let's just take the time line on this, let's take the story. V.E.G. You see, a minister says just after a special day when it becomes clear that members of Congress have received this tremendous increase in wages - ASI, and SA said: "This will result in a workforce resolution. Business organizations said: "If the Council doesn't respond to it, it's not quite correct, but that's what they actually said. And ASI said, "And reverse the trend." There will be chaos at the labour market at the General Assembly. But they say the best. Bjarni Benediktsson's secretary for financial matters: I'd already submitted a bill for the Council of Cathedrals. It needs to be fixed, a rethinker's advice. That's the bill we're talking about right now. Same bill, rethink something a little bit. But the same bill removes regulations that it is illegal for advice, taking it out of the law as it is now. The decision of the Council of Elders, as it did on a special day, to raise our salary and others to be no longer illegal. This bill is the response to the advice of the dresser: If you make such a decision in the future, you are no longer breaking the law. Here you go. I'd like to have a reaction if I had to. The secretary of finance may object. So if this isn't just an error or I'm missing something I don't think because I've talked to someone at a job market. It's not. And if we don't fix it. Now's your chance. Put it in there so that it is quite clear that advice must not make decisions beyond the general labour market. As it is in the law now, it is said to take into account the development of labour markets, it's just not strong enough. It is no longer illegal according to the report. Which is removed if we agree to these tracks. Then what happens? Other things happen, too. After this flagrant increase in pay, let us look at the political landscape, how it developed. After the people see and they're overcrowding this high-priority raise, just after election, I'm going to Channel 2 on Monday, right after the election, and I'm on the radio with a bang. paritaprevir Andersen's victory. People can only find it on the Internet. Her case shows that some of the delegates knew this long ago. Senators knew of this rise. She forgot to say, I checked the meeting because I wanted to know, I wasn't at the council at the time, but I wanted to know, did members of Congress really want to know this in advance? I went to a meeting of the Presidency Committee, who was sent a message from the Board of Elders. At that time, members of the council knew that there would be an increase, knew that a year earlier, even though they did not know that this increase was coming, but they could see what the political advantage would be. paritaprevir Andersen's victory sounds good. All the Americans hear is, Boom! The senators were aware of this tremendous rise. It wasn't a lie, but it was a half-truth that gave a very misleading idea. What did this mean in political landscapes? This meant that all members of the council had become involved in this rise. Except, of course, the highest. The minister of Bjarni Benediktsson, for he said, "I've already put up a bill on the Board of Elders, see, it's just the lesser part that stopped it. The view, the image, or the atmosphere, or the way it all looked was: All members of the Parliament decided to increase their wages in criminal terms. It's a violation of the law. It may not be a crime, I'm sorry, but it's against the law. V.E.G. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson has said, "I've already provided a bill to fix this. But the bill didn't fix it, making it worse. It settles slightly, for it seems that there is some opposition at the council to increase it and make it decent. For those who make a decision or to ensure that they do not conflict with interest when making these decisions: Not inside. Pirantics have proposed a modification proposal to be inserted: very slow. People are really shy about it for some reason. That's what it looked like. All senators with finesse, chief. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson is going to take care of the business with a bill. On the other hand, what also appeared in the matter of the day. paritaprevir The Sigrims Andersen of Channel 2 Monday after election was that the heads of the clans had been informed about this. Then I ask, is it really? About this rise? The heads of the clans? She told the presidents of the clans. Now I think she misspoke. But that's what she said. If it was, it would have been the highest. Secretary of finance and chairman of the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, was given information on this before election. Was he talking about a year ago or just before Christmas Day? I'd think it would have been a year ago, but I don't know. It would be interesting to know. Me and what. paritaprevir Sigríður Andersen could take it sometime at the council if she's not in the house and she can't come and answer it. But if she's in the house, I'd ask the president to call after her arrival so we can determine what she was saying about this. The situation is: Over the years, there has been a problem with advice. You've always been trying to fix this and do better. It was a Companion and a Boy Scout Committee, and they were moving it to a field of work together in the U.S. board, which is now. This was done in 2006. Then they made arrangements to ensure that this framework of pay development cannot be exceeded in the country, that pay is not being increased beyond that, so that advice on dressers, as it is said, is not formative on the market. But in this bill, it's ripped off all over the table. It is a problem that was about to arise now, and the common people are rightly very unhappy with, and a lot of teachers followed. The problem is to be removed. If the highest. Look, the Secretary of Economics wants to come up against me, if he has anything to say about what I've mentioned here, why are these factors being weakened and allow a voter to take this kind of crime... no, such happy decisions on pay raise--is the highest. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson has come back to answer, if you don't mind me asking a president? [[President (SJS)): That's not the custom, is it? A senator, to inform it specifically. One senator has already requested an answer.]] Okay. It's not. Then I'll just have to give a second talk later to see if we can keep the discussion going until there are some answers from the speaker of the bill. A man who painted himself very well in the media in the wake of this decision to raise his salary, to say he was going to... put in front of all the bullies, as if it had been a bill that should have fixed this problem, which was not. The main purpose is clearly expressed in the bill. The main objective is to reduce the number of those under the advice of the decision. What happens then? Ah, yes, canceling the second law, stating that other people may rise more than the prime minister. It is a law that says it must not be. It actually offers that a lot of employees will not be fixed under the edge of a dresser board and may begin to increase even more in wages. That's the possibility that this could happen. I can see why. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson is smiling at it. I don't know if he was smiling at me. But if he has something to consider, it would be interesting to ask him to answer, or perhaps, a talk in which he can add it. Maybe I'll point it out especially to what? The senator's decision on the regulations to secure labour market stability, not to allow the decision of the collective agreements to be taken by the majority of the employees, as they say. That law is being fulfilled. - The Senator's coming to the Hall right now. I'll say it again. It's a law that's gone out, and I've talked to people at the labour market and they say it's a weaker law, it's not strong enough. A body of advice may make decisions beyond those limits without breaking the rules of this bill if it becomes legal. This, therefore, weakens this law, just as it was pleasing to people, which meant that they went beyond the general pay number in their decision on election day. I see that the senator is not interested in accepting that discussion. He may prepare and discuss the matter himself. Hv. A senator then knows that this is a danger. Pirata's senators have provided a modification proposal for this, to frame it better. There seems to be a harmony. Hv. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir, an executive of the majority of the committee, spoke earlier of something that was trying to do, that would be the idea, she understood it at least that way. But if we go to the lyrics of the law, we'll see that there are some cracks. The report states that this law, which was much stronger and framed, cannot be exceeded by general pay development. In those laws, however, it is weak. It sounds like this, with President's permission: It states that when deciding the agreements that a dresser makes a wage, he should make sure that they are at any given time in accordance with the salary in society, to the salary of society, yes, but this is in accordance with the actual agreement whether it is to be done, it can only be decided that the salary of members of Congress or Ministers or judges is in accordance with society's salary, other comparable wages. They should do so anyway. This does not fit in with the lack of resistance to pay development in the community. On top of this, if I continue with a quote, with the permission of a president -- and for that purpose, the advice should be observed and evaluated for collective labour agreements and general pay development. - You need to pay attention and evaluate. Today, it's much stronger. Still, they just do what they want. We do not know the basis for their decision. They do not take it on the basis of what they are supposed to do, not going outside the community's general pay development, no matter what the year or even going back to 2006, where members of the Parliament's pay fall into operation. And further, with the permission of the president: -- 01: And at the same time it is stated that the decision of the decision always takes into account the general development of the hatches in the labour market, although it is permitted to decide that pay will be made annually in line with the common labour policies or other criteria that describe general labour development. - That advice in its decisions should always take into account the general development of a bra at the labour market. This is what is stated in the Law text now and is explained in a report that means that they should never go beyond this. Now the report says that they can only take it into account and say: "Well, we took it into account, but that's what we did. It's much weaker than it was. This has been confirmed by workers at the labour market. First, the highest. I'm going to finish my speech and see who's coming to answer. But it's been made. The minister came to the house. If we make this decision unchanged - it would be us who removed it from these embezzlement laws that are in force, we removed it, weaken it that they can make such a foolish decision to raise our salary, and then we are responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u39	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start at least a little less. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson says that those who carry this bill are the heads of all categories.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u40	Not Pizza.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u41	No, they were initially wrong, but for some reason they stopped to explain that there was no proper explanation. [[Take it up: Give it to yourself.]] Yes, thank you, it would be very good to know. In this matter, more transparency and more information are being ensured, that there is a clearer basis. There's nothing but good about it, but when it's up in the speaker's chair and they say they're breaking the law, here's a criminal thing--Well, I didn't hear it but-- [[Took it back.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u42	Hv. A senator has the means to answer an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u43	We must look at the background. For the committee, representatives of the industry and labor movement said: "It's a bigger raise than the market, than the pay market is. True, they are in the 2013's. When this is being decided, and seen by the law and by the reference classes, and what has happened since 2006 when the General took up and dropped it, when the General decided in 2009 to reduce the pay of these groups by 10%, it was never to be permanent and not go back. This was especially expected to resolve when it was better. Now, when circumstances are different and not prerequisite for that decline, the course is, of course, being corrected. If you take all that time and you look to the law, what you're going to do, this conclusion is just a law. [[The president calls.]] We have no other basis to believe, but the logic support may not have been clear, but it is being corrected now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u44	Madam President. The 2008 drop in salary was extended to 2009 so that it is clear. If we go back to 2006, we have this fall inside, and that still leads to a 21% increase over general employment development, slightly higher if we take the public market so that it is quite clear. But if we go back to 2006, we're still raising and recording 21% more than we can pay. These are the figures of the Professional Association. There are only different financial statistics, however, there is a 13% rise there above general development if we return to 2006 and thus have a decrease in the salary of the senators in that number. We're going in excess. Will the senator say, "Yes, but because we had so little salary for so long, are we going to get an up again? ' Is that really what the senator is saying? Then he can try to talk about a good idea. It's just a bad idea that men weren't ready to have a retrospective increase in disability. Hv. paritaprevir If Níelsson's son has any right to say so, he can say so. However, the decision at the board is beyond the criteria you can set. Then we're just gonna get it in court. I don't know if we're gonna get it. paritaprevir Ermengarde Níelsson's son has heard it, but I spoke to my lawyer again this morning, and I'm a member of the case, and then I can sue this case and I will. Then we'll just get to the table what's right in this case. Yes, that answers that question. I said, Crime, withdrew it because it's not a crime, it's not a law of punishment, but it's a crime.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u45	V.E.G. President. There's no better word for the law. This committee is given a specific procedure according to the regulations and guidelines set out in the following areas. With regard to this salary, I'm not making a requirement for feedback, but, of course, it would be best to keep it backward if one was to follow the trend. The members of Parliament who sat here for the last term and are no longer left behind, and much more so. It's neither fair nor normal, but I'm not gonna make any claim of it. I'm saying, in the long run, according to the law on this matter, it's a normal decision. We can debate the material conclusion, just as we argue on the outcome of a decision, but the delinquency in this case is completely undisturbable and every idea that such a decision cannot be made or made because it may become a little upset. Resurrected is just thoughtful, and we can't compare to that. As far as I know, all the time we've made a decision, whether it was an old Kjara Court, a dresser's committee, a advice was upset, always required it to be taken back, always being done. If we had always applied that counsel, we would still be in our old dollars and not be shaken. Let us bear in mind that it is proper and natural for members of Congress, judges, and others to follow the rules of pay development. If we don't agree with the rules of content, what if we're not going to aim for general pay development, and if we're going to create a new control group, we should just do it, but there's nothing wrong with this conclusion, it means that I know the rules and it's the right thing to do with words in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u46	Madam President. It is good to know that the senator is not calling for a retrospective rise to the council. However, it remains that, no, this is not merely a matter of thought; it is stated in the law that the market should not exceed the general pay development. Isn't that what we're going to try to secure on this bill now? I thought so, but I didn't do it. With this bill, it is weak, but it is clearly written and framed. In the law as they stand now, and the decision of the Council to raise the body's salary to such an extent that this year's increase is up to 47%. But okay, let's get back in business, let's go back to the Senate drop of the time, we go back to 2006. The decline was between 2008 and 2009, but we go back to 2006, the increase is still according to financial figures of 13% and figures from the employment Association by 21%. It's very detailed, and it's beyond the code under law on how to make the decision of a dresser. It's against the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u47	A respectable president. I have a feeling. Senators in this room as well as elsewhere can work out a successful solution to this matter. I think we all want to work wholeheartedly that there are good laws here for the advice that responsibly determines. Our benefit. In view of my new and good hope, I'd like to add to a term I'd like to, and that's the ◯ right state. In this context, I think it's quite important. The kingdom of the heavens can be defined in many ways. You could give long and learned talks about exactly what it is and how it has developed over the years, and I don't know what or what. What matters most in the court is that all people are equal in law, that laws are accessible, understandably, and readable to those to whom they should be held, and that government decisions should not be taken except by law. There are also many requirements for transparency and a wide range of human rights for those living in a legal state. I think it's important to continue working on this bill that we have the legal state in mind that if the counsel is intended to be neither a administrative committee nor a court of law, I will find it hard to see where the public should turn if they want access to information from that council, or any of us who are under the advice should turn us if we feel that we've been wronged or that we've been advised to do something stupid. If the Commission is a administrative committee in charge of that administration, it can be reported to the courts. If a court order is a court order of some sort, whether it's a personal law or a court of law, hardly the law of justice, and they need to be anything more detailed than what is found in the bill available to us. Also, the state of justice goes to a large extent that the public can understand how the law works and how to act accordingly. If the role of a chicken council is not clearly defined, what kind of crisis is, then the public has limited ways to find out how he can use his rights in what we call a legal state. Similarly, when we have advice that determines the salary and ideal judge, Minister, General, President of Iceland, that it is quite clear who is in charge and whether they have any interest in it. In my opinion of the case, I have noticed that in the council, three active lawyers sit and they decide the salary of judges. I do not question these special stewards, but as has often been said of justice, it must also be seen out of the way. We should try to work in a way that the neutrality of a court body cannot be questioned and the neutrality of courts cannot be questioned. Therefore, I think it is desirable that the transitional proposal of Pirata and merely to set certain qualifications for the counseling of the sage council, that advice for men will remain unassigned to a greater part of active law, to be the desired development. It's just my opinion, but I hope so. The Senate agrees with it. Otherwise, I would like to reiterate that the state of justice is awesome, and we all should work to the best of our ability to fulfill it. The practicality of the testimonials, the qualifications of the senators, and the strictness of the law of any disproportionateness of the collective council are all important requirements made by the Court of Justice in this chamber. I'd like you to work on that with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-20-7.u48	Madam President. I would like to read up a point from the older citizen's partner in Reykjavík, on the other hand, regarding the choice of older citizens. This is also true of disability because, unless less importantly, they have not had their money back, they need one 17 billion from older citizens who have made decisions since the collapse. Yes, it is true that decisions should take into account the pay development and be in line with the index price of consumption, but on these funds we are not going to do that. There are 17 billion accumulated in older citizens. I don't know the number of micro-germs, but, based on the population, it should be 71⁄28 billion. Me and the senators just got mail that says, with president's permission: I'd like you to meet the General Senator. In the interest of a discussion on the Council of Talent at the council now in the matter. ▪ Law on the advice of the men. A board of advice should always take into account the general development of a labour market. So I'm just coming in here, this is the law to weaken, as it stands in the current law, if the bill we're talking about is going to be agreed on as it is. And then the letter goes on to say: The social security laws. The daughters of social security will change annually according to each budget. Their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the price of the consumer price. What's the difference in percent? This may be something the committee should look at, as well as, in line with the fact that a advice in Norway, I am told, will take into account the pay of the desperate and the elderly, who, of course, cannot negotiate their wages and benefits. If it were to some extent associated with the purchase and election of members and other political representatives and powermen, we may be allowed to see an increase that would not be repeatedly dropped, as has been done by the disability and older citizens.
