ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u1	V.E.G. President. It is becoming increasingly good news of how commercial power in Iceland is getting better. It will come, for example. to this day that the pay number has increased by 11.3% in the last 12 months and the salary level may have increased by 10% at the same time. The next index test occurs after two, three days. The last kept a reduction of 0.3% and during the last 12 months, the index price of consumer consumption has increased by 1.1% and 0.6%, if the housing team is removed as to be done and done everywhere. However, it is interesting that the imported product does not appear to have fallen according to the size of a crown during the past 12 months. You can, for example. less than a quarter reduction in the number of cases in England, the U.S. and Canadadollars have dropped by 11◯12%, and so on. This has been the case, as noted the other day in the Morning Press, that imported food has dropped by 2%, which is very remarkable when we consider how the crown's strength is strengthened. However, it is very unusual to learn today that the IKEA company has now reduced its prices by the third time in three years, this time by 3.5%. In other words, they are taking a chance, as the kids say, that the dollar will continue to remain stable for the next 12 months, as it has been, and that others would follow it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u2	V.E.G. President. We Icelanders have the privilege of using renewable energy and have achieved excellent results in this. But better still, from all the ideas of activation, the distribution system needs the electricity system and the continued development of significant injections. The demand for energy at any given time is based on electrical forecasts, and it is all about to increase the number of bottlenecks in the distribution system but is now out of action. Despite the fact that all demanders are ready for three phase systems, about 30% of the high-voltage system is still monophasic. It is highly inhibited for all occupations, as the examples prove, and it can be pointed to one recent point in theifier, where young people are building up jobs, but they cannot go on in that structure because of this. Sadly, more people know that despite all the rest of the system's renewal. It's been 24 years with a three-phase system, this one. V.E.G. President. Now there will be talk of the nation's electrical vehicles and its benefits, but it has not been anticipated beyond what is stated in the electrical projections, which, in contrast, uses an average home in electrical heating areas about ten times the energy required by an electric vehicle. For example, the information Tryggi by Þór Haraldsson's son on changing energy to land and sea, which was moved at the spring Summit that possible bottlenecks in the electricity system to a shorter time could become a local problem in the low - power system if many cars are loaded at the same time and possibly called this on increased investments in the telecommunications of summer areas and in the urban areas. V.E.G. President. This is part of the challenges we face, the electrical activity of the household car, far less work than the electricity of operating machines, buses, and large vehicles. Homes do not have enough energy, however, for employment. It is important to take practical steps in the right direction and not to dwell on them. We're supposed to set the goal, because we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u3	V.E.G. President. Now that the LAIN bill has come to the treatment of an General and Education Committee, there are many fine points in this. But there is one point I'm worried about, and there are the local students, i.e. Kids who can't go to high school or college from home, so they have to leave home. This is very expensive for this group. He leaves home at 16 years of age and may have to live with relatives and friends, there are no schools for students who come, e.g. To Reykjavík, and not even to your own age. Then it's still very expensive, and it's easier for the people who still live in a home, i.e. for parents, but for others, it is necessary to study. I believe that the default goal could be a means of survival for the national population, and I believe that an increase in it would create more opportunities for students in general to draw out professional experience from the field of interest and even the study they are in rather than just looking at the payable amount. No one who works for the summer, goes to college, and takes student loans in money. So I feel that it is safe to resume the discussion that we had some two years ago about raising the academic holiday goal further as we work on this new bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u4	Madam President. Yesterday, an interview with the director of Istavia showed that according to the planned set of flights to the country and other prospects, there will be well over 2 million foreign tourists next year, which well over six times the population of the country. Tens of percent of growth will continue to be measured. The addition alone next year could be 300,000,400,000 foreign tourists, similar to the number of people who came here in one year less than ten years ago. I don't think there's any debate that we're in many ways prepared to cope with this rapid increase. There are many of the infrastructures, many of which, as well as preparations for mass - fishing tourist attractions, not all gone, much less bet he is ready to take on this increased pressure. The road system is falling apart, the accidents of international tourists large in traffic, the use of transportation, and the lack of access within the council. For simple objects such as hygiene, they are clean, unattainable, and they have not even been able to take over, which is obviously the fastest, the fastest - active thing, to hide the road to make the most basic improvements in the materials we have proposed, a council left green. There's a big project ahead of you that obviously has to be in the priority of a new government and a new Senate section. It is understood that this government does some sense in these matters, that time is simply the running away from it in this regard. This is a serious matter, for this may be a serious accident if we do not look at what is to come. How sad it is to lose one summer after another in a circle of nonsense and to argue over how to finance a normal investment in the infrastructure that would, of course, not be a legal issue that the State simply did when it is developing in this rapidly growing industry! [[The president calls.]] I call attention to this here, Mr. President, because this is where the big task of those taking over the country is held in the second month of November.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u5	We know who that will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u6	We'll see. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u7	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, the News magazine published an interview with a young traveler, Svavar Eysteinsson, who moved two years ago with his family to the Berunas, where food production and tourism began. The young farmer describes his experience during the interview and reviews the inhibitory lack of three - phase electricity for the job structure as well as the lack of a good network relationship. This fact surprises many. Men are certainly not at the same table as to access what many of us take for granted. There are many outlets in the country, too little money has been spent on the maintenance of the past few years, and new projects have come to rest. A village of some 500 inhabitants has a large flow of tourists. The highway leads through the village, and only 36.5 feet [35,5 m] away from the road to the nearest apartment. The traffic through the village poses a tremendous danger of disaster, since children have to cross the highway every day to go to school. V.E.G. President. To give people an idea of the speed of traffic through the village, e.g. 3,200 automobiles on a mountain of testing on August 22. And at the same time about 1700 cars over the Holta-Tail. This year, however, an accident on the Streets of Mount Tryn Bridge, a major accident trap, occurred on Mount Gatnabur. The inhabitants of the Snow Valley call for transportation improvements, their demand for a tunnel through a mountain of testing. This procedure would significantly improve traffic security. Madam President. I'm not going to discuss this one time, but their elimination is also an important safety issue. The population of the whole country is calling for transportation reforms. We do not yet know what the next step will be on the part of the government. Thus, it is vital that we see the transport plan for the next four years as well as for the next 12 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u8	V.E.G. President. I was greatly disappointed when I examined the media this morning, but a few headlines can be read in this way: There can be a division between 1,500 million volunteers. This is about the granting of a petition for employees by the Council of Copenhagen. The report shows that there may be a potential candidate for plans in the future, ranging from 50 to 100 million. K. on you. It is stated that those who can receive these proposals will achieve certain goals that are maximising the value of unexploited property. I cannot help but ask: What are these possessions? Is this the case with former homes of people, homes that were invited up, and the bank bought low prices, and is it now going to maximise their profits? Is that so? I'm asking that I don't know. I want answers, and I feel that the community's responsibility for these institutions is to give us answers after the hurt caused by the collapse of the bank. Another headline puts it this way: A pay - making bank is a profit. The bank's making 13 billion dollars. in the first six months of the year compared to 10.8 billion k. at the same time last year. Yesterday, however, we heard news from employees of the same bank that there is so much uncertainty that the interest level must be so high and that we can have the same growth as our neighboring countries. I'm asking, what the hell is going on? The banks are making on their finger and while the homes pay enormous interest fees and help the bank service that has been charged rarely. It is not always possible to talk about replacements. It's not time to return your profits to your homes, e.g. with lower interest levels, creating trust between financial institutions and the public? Or do these institutions need further taxation and money in their midst? Is that the only way?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u9	A respectable president. The first bond between parents and children is very important, and in Britain, British governments have promoted a campaign called 1,001 an important day in the life of a newborn child. The matter is especially of interest to me as a member of the Parapolitic Committee on Children's issues and Young People. The goal of the British effort is to help parents make sure that their children will feel at home during their most important formative phase, that parents can reflect on their child's mental state, their own mental state, and their relationship between them, that parents can identify themselves with their child's feelings and respond appropriately, that they can break up negative patterns that have developed between generations, and that they can reduce their impact on the child, that parents can work out of parental experience, and that parents can find joy in dealing with their child and find satisfaction with him. The good news is that so far, Dr. Amanda Jones, a scientist and expert in this field, has been one of the biggest advisers of the British government on the case and in the introduction to parental resources, with special attention to protecting the mental health of families during pregnancy and the first years after the birth of a child. Amanda's coming here on the Central Center of Parents and Children. She says she wants to share this experience and these policies in the UK to Icelandic political and influential people. I dare the Icelandic health authorities to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u10	A respectable president. Yesterday, the state sold its share in the Realm Realm Reimum for 3.9 billion. The sales are not free to raise questions. In view of previous cases, the matter of paying, in particular, and the paralegal authority of the government, it is proper to ask questions as to whether this is not too much of a sale on these assets. Why is there such a hurry? Why was it necessary to sell the entire portion of the real estate society at a time during the foretold rise in real estate prices? Could more be achieved by doing this gradually? Lindahvol, a company specifically founded by the government to keep an eye on a number of associates, which were part of the stability development that the bank fragmented, legalized by law, imposed on transparency, objectiveness, equality and practicality, and sought the highest possible price for property. The process this time was strangely closed, the invitation was opened on Friday was and the sale was dropped yesterday. The process is at stake, and there is confidence in the fact that everything is on the table. In that light, we must remind us of the reasons why the present government is running out and that the election is being proclaimed for autumn. This is precisely because trust is the same, and government leaders have taken their own personal money into societies, and thus they actually lived in a different reality than all the common people. Disbelief is real, and it is justified. A financial minister must answer whether or not the sale of these materials is completed in a somewhat closed process. Is that how the interests of the State Fund is paid? Is it possible to sell at the highest price, or are actions being rushed in the shelter of the night in the event of an election? Is it a burning sale under a political pressure? These questions need to be answered. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u11	A respectable president. It's quiet now at the council, as you say. There's nothing upset here, people don't come in here in a nutshell and draw the shit out of each other. Everything's fine and people are fine. There's a reason, I think, to discuss one thing that seems to be a kronosk in society, and there's a psychological service that the public always experience so that it should only be used when everything is warm, it's in a steak, and they need to consult a doctor for some kind of disease. I'm saying it's the wrong way of thinking. Mental - health experts are, in effect, just experts in human behavior, feelings, and thinking patterns. Humans and I have feelings, and we have thoughts, and we act in some way, even when things are going well. Therefore, I feel that this special service is beneficial, not just when people feel unwell or have to deal with some challenges, but in the general community. We should stop viewing psychological services and psychologists as just doctors but, rather, a little like trainers, saying sports coaches. We do not say that a athlete is only necessary when someone is not doing it. He is just an expert in a process that can be used to improve things. It is always beneficial, I assure you, to gain a better understanding of your own conduct and your own feelings and your own thoughts. In fact, I claim that by reducing the prejudices of the group of Pirats recently became known, we can more fully activate the one of the most important resources in society. She is the unblameable human mind, conscious of her own conduct, her own thinking, and her own feelings.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u12	President. You'd think we'd be back by 2001 because the tip-up window is supposed to come back. The Committee that made the assessment of the extent of an illegal download suggests that a communications company will inform users if they are breaking the law on the Internet via a ◯ppupupupup-to- accelerator. It's on the State Department's web. In view of these wishes, Piratars call attention to the following: If the Internet providers can shoot up such a range of web sites, there are some consequences that all people need to understand: a. They can shoot anything they want into the website, which is the way a software or viruses work very often. It might even be said that the Icelandic government is deliberately weakening the safety of all users in Iceland. b. To do this, they must constantly monitor all the online uses of people and compare their communications with a predetermined list to decide whether to enter the requested data code, which shows the ◯ppup up to a certain list. This is entirely comparable to spying on all communication, always. c. Either it is very easy to destroy this government's resources by means of a simple encryption such as https, which would prevent it from launching a code shot, or then the encryption will be removed by a man in the middle of a show-up of the job's safety, allowing others to pop in corrupt code and decommission their privacy in terms of privacy. This would also mean that no use of Internet banks or websites would be safe in Iceland anymore. I'd like to direct it to the Ministers of the Interior and other members of Congress, such as at the moment. paritaprevir Empresses Níelsson's son, who was on the committee that suggested these suggestions, that such committees as these were appointed to have an idea of how the Internet, computer technology, and human rights are working. The chair and style set from Smári Mccarthyr.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u13	President. I'm going to discuss the conduct of the European Commission in the legislature process. According to the law, a regular assembly should begin on Tuesday in September. A work programme adopted by spring states that this assembly to which we are currently attending is scheduled for September 2nd. It was strange, therefore, to me, at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee for the weekend when three prime radios were sent out for review and due deadlines were issued on September 1. I made a note there, Mr. President, because the council is supposed to end the next day. I find the lightweight characteristic of the European Commission's conduct in the legislation of the legislature agreement beyond all boundaries. When I mention this in the introduction to the tunnel, the reaction will be: What, we just change it. Yeah, well, all we do is change the laws of the country to please ourselves or the rest of the council. Isn't that right? We set a law to be followed. We do not change the law when it suits someone today or anyone else tomorrow. Then maybe it'll be perfect for the third one the same day after. When it comes to us, however, we change just a pair of gaps and breaks if it suits the Senate, set provisional regulations here, and make provisional arrangements there. It is not even necessary to do this in advance. We're sitting here today and yesterday, we're going to do some serious business that's not really in progress. President. Is it any wonder that people feel little about this meeting when the government treats itself and her with this disrespect?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u14	A respectable president. On the job of the council, it is that there is no case before the Council. During this fall council, the government went to great lengths to see that the government's opposition would get in the way of a lawsuit until the fall. But this is not to say hi because there is simply no issue from the government, whether the government itself or from committees. This had to be stopped at noon on Friday and the events scheduled for the council since then there are issues that do not exist to complete the ceremony at this council, are presented here for introductions and might as well be done on the world site. I don't know what to do tomorrow or the other, and I'm not aware of any larger issues that will be on the program. The case today is burned, for the government is calling for Congress to have something on the program. A respectable president. This, of course, shows better than many other reasons why the decision to make an election has been made. It has been decided to give an election in spite of the larger members of the board because their cooperation has been established because the government groups are not able to get together on any larger issues in order to move to the council. The last time I thought it was an increase in pension, there was a solidarity in all classes and the National Association of the Old Citizens. I introduced a minister of finance to the point where the case was stuck in the government, and then it was found that it's not in the government, it's not even a social minister. There are only five days left of this election season's work programme. Even a case involving the interests of all older citizens in the country does not appear in the government, much less in the council or in terms of any hope that next week there will be a legal hearing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. The government's supposed to have a proper view of its own in completing this council and making the election as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u15	A respectable president. Once again, I intend to make the future of the city's Reykjavík airport a talker. In contrast, the country's rural communities have been involved in modern medical flights. While rural communities in the country are doing what they can to support such a flight, it is aghast of being buried under a medical plane in Reykjavík. Recently, there was a signed agreement on the construction of the North Earth Airport, where the community of the Far East and a remote community contributes to half the budget needed for the malaria of the field against the State. This is despite the fact that the government should secure the infrastructure of the national security and health concerns. At the same time, the County Society of Reykjavík chooses to close an important safety course for a medical flight in Reykjavík. The latest incident where the city buys land from the state, apparently based on controversial sources, is, in the highest order, strange. How could it be that individual ministers can make decisions and sign commitments that have as powerful consequences for the national public security as they do without starting work at the same time? It is not acceptable that in the southwest corner there is no northeast/southwest runway. V.E.G. President. At this point, however, it is very important for me to submit to the nation's determination to see if the national airport and the center of an international and hospital flight will remain in the waters of Reykjavík, and on the other hand, the government must initiate work where all stakeholders meet to resolve the situation, including Reykjavíkurburg, the European Union of Iceland and the State. It will never bring relief to the cry of everyone in his horn, and then a case will be held before the courts between them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u16	Madam President. Now there are only a few more days left of this senator who began in the middle of the month. If I'm right, there's seven days left of the council. It is very close, so it is important that we make good use of our days. There are big issues, such as decommissioning insurance, bill on first estate, the LIN bill, agricultural contracts, transport plans, and now the bill was due to be on top of the bill. Well-being minister of the prolongation of birthday vacations you're waiting for, but never coming, and I don't know what or what. Seven days is left. There are many things to do. However, meetings for the next few days will be cut short. Well, I guess we're not supposed to be working on that. The fact is, the big things - and I heard them here before. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir called for a transport plan into this hall and I join her -- we just don't get to talk about it. It seems that the big issues I was referring to are just a decoration for the board of directors, but there's nothing to do about them. Why are we not discussing a transport program? In fact, here in the hall there are members of the council who keep this policy high in their next re-election. Why do government officials not want to discuss a transport program in this room? The Environmental and Transport Committee has not really been contacted by this brief member of Congress. No one's hanging around, that's for sure. [[The president calls.]] There's just nothing to talk about, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u17	A respectable president. I'm just thinking that here we should talk about a road program every day, very much needs to be discussed. I am a great spokesman for it, and I do not compromise. I wanted to make a statement that states and rural societies are the ones that, in large measure, control the price and the potential for housing. Governments have taken many positive steps to make it easier for young people to get their first apartment, but with a change in regulations, people's choice of apartment arrangements has increased and requirements have diminished that did not serve a reasonable purpose. Last year, the government introduced ways that encourage people to save and to offer people a choice as to whether they use their tax - free resources to get a roof over their heads or to keep them in their upper years. But I ask, " Isn't the ball in the countryside now even further? ' Is it not true that the community that should be the most economical driver for size and location should begin to reduce property prices, minimize administrative costs for new projects, and ensure adequate payment? Near the capital area, there are at least to large business unions without selling up the property prices, and they don't charge huge sums of money for accepting land applications and building permits applications. I encourage the rural communities to bring the government on the way to assist future respondents in bringing roofs over their heads.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u18	Madam President. As you can see, I sign this opinion in advance. I don't make any comments at work. The Economic and Business Committee for this complex and very technical implementation of a health insurance policy directive. I pointed out in the Committee's work that I wanted to handle mutual insurance companies that are known elsewhere. However, they were not included when the previous preparation of this directive was implemented. What concerns me about the induction is that it does not really take into account how we want to approach insurance, which is not just on the basis of the market at any given time, but more on the basis of consumers. These views have been held at the Committee, and they are the reason for my warnings as well as the fact that we have little effect on the induction of this directive and on the criticism that has been presented at the European Union's site on the fact that this increased rule actually does not serve its stated goal. I did well in our discussion about financial companies. [[The president calls.]] So that's why we're warning you. I have no comment on the work of the Committee, and as a result, I will be embarrassed by the release of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u19	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the rules of the law on the handling of private matters for advert. The bill suggests changes to the application system and conditions for the application. First, it is suggested that the application procedures be taken to the county. Second, the role of the parish committee will be changed from giving the review of a plea for acquiescation to accept charges against a businessman's decisions for a rape. Third, it is expected that there will be a change in the conditions for the application, and fourth, the decision to handle the cost of a judicial case in which the application will be granted. In the beginning, it is proper to review the current arrangement. Today, all applications for abduction are directly to the State Department and the Ministry will make the final decision for abduction. Prior to making such a decision, the Ministry seeks a report from a plagion committee that determines the right to demand and therefore whether to refuse. Is it not lawful for the Ministry to promote abduction unless the Board of Aggressives recommend that there be a paupering? When it comes to making a decision on the terms and costs of plagiarism, the courts have decided only on the terms of the approval of the attorney of the prosecutor, but the Ministry has made decisions on other legal expenses, e.g. the cost of the lawyer and the payment for the menus. In the western United States, the informer has provided the pantheonium of services in preparation for the parenchyma and in charge of bills for the plagiarism. This bill suggests the change that a businessman will take over the tasks of those whom the Ministry has so far taken care of in the parish. Is that an arrangement even? stated on the basis of a provisional law on the implementation and administration of the state in each Member State, No. 52/2014, which required that the work be considered as an option from recruitment to a businessman. Therefore, the bill suggests that all applications for the application will be sent to a businessman and that he will consider whether the conditions for abduction are met and whether to decide whether to release or refuse. The Commission's decision may be launched to the parish Committee that receives this bill a new role. Today, as we have seen, her role is to determine if there is a fence and to give the government information about it, which is binding. Now the role of the Commission, if the bill is to be legal, to accept charges due to a businessman's decision to treat, to re-evaluate the decision and after the events confirm the decision of the businessman, or to make a new decision. In this system, decisions for rejection of a fence or decisions on limitation of aggression can be treated at two administrative points, but this has not been in the present system. Thus, the change in the choice of men to a parish Committee is made that, instead of having a minister ship one without a appointment, the Iceland's Human Rights Office is assigned to no one. Other than that, recruiters remain unchanged from today's levels. It is suggested that the courts make up, as well as a decision to be paid to the attorney of the tenants, a decision to exonerate the attorney's expenses on the case. On the other hand, a businessman makes decisions on other legal costs, such as the cost of the menu. In exceptional circumstances, if a court case is not presented in court, an individual can make a decision to the attorney and make his expenses. Then it is suggested that the businessman's decisions be made on the cost of payment for the parish committee. Motives are also suggested that the conditions for abduction be changed. Thus it will be emphasized that the amount of money funded for the pursuit of things will be taken care of by individuals who cannot cost themselves the price of a lawsuit. With the proposed change, a new rule will be adopted, and it is the same rule as it was followed by a change in the terms of the application procedures set out in 2005◯2012 when the re-enactment was an older law on the application of the people from 1991. Now is the time to disappear from the conditions in force and to emphasize that a desire for money is given to less individuals, not to lawyers, or to those who are financially able to pursue their own interests. Thus, in the bill of this series, the basic criteria for a desire to aggressor are given to a person who does not have money to pay for his expenses. In addition, there should be grounds for a lawsuit, and natural enough for a lawsuit to be paid for by public funds. Today, there is no clear obligation to only be used by individuals, and there is the possibility of giving those who are financially able to contribute to their own growth. A respectable president. I have made this bill clear and suggest that it be referred to at the highest level. A full commission and an approved 2rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u20	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister of the state before this story of the matter and of the matter. I think it's very important to revise these laws. I wanted to ask her a question. I admit it right here and now I haven't read the bill the way it is, but I'm with other people. Congress officials proposed a 29 - case arrangement, distributed on September 17, 2015, which is about a review of the conditions of the advising, which is about the management criteria. This report speaks of the management of the last changes to the Regulation in December 2010 and refers to flogging, which increased to 2 billion. K. 3 billion, on the other hand. K. for those who have it in total. But I really wanted to ask the highest. In this review, the Minister of Ministers for Ministers whether there will be any increased income targets in this review, as the current income criteria are very low. If you examine people at minimum, couples on unemployment benefits, say that, they're under the current Regulation too high to meet these requirements, in order to get a divorce. I think it's very important that everyone can bring their rights to court regardless of their economic status. It is very expensive to attend a matter, especially as some have had to do since the collapse of the economy here, taking a legal case for financial institutions to seek justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u21	V.E.G. President. You're right about what you're doing. That it is important for a senator to consider money that goes to the point of taking into consideration the matter and those who are in poor economic conditions and who are not inclined to handle matters. Now there are the living conditions, or whatever the best way to put it, the income criteria, 2 billion. K. It is assumed in the bill that if the law is to be given to a new Regulation with a new income policy and expected to increase them. If we look at the decrease in unemployment rate, we are up to 2.5 million. This will follow the progress of the case. If the bill is to be legalized, the Regulation needs to be changed, and, of course, these changes will be guided by normal guidelines in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u22	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister of the I.R. for a good and satisfying answer that there is a review of the Regulation. I know that there are individuals who have applied for a crisis in the financial system and who were amazed at the low level of income targets. You have, of course, placed a question mark that they are so low. Who are they for if people who are unemployment workers can't even get a rape? But what a joy it is to be revised! It'll be interesting to see what it's gonna look like. I'd like to get the top of it. Ministers so that it works quickly and quickly and that we can grant those who really need these matters because of their position, economic status, the option of applying this in order to complete a legal issue involving, for example, the financial system. It's a long time before we can finish what happened here and that people can seek their rights despite a difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u23	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister of the state of the past and the presentation of this bill, which I believe is a great improvement. It is very important that people in this country, regardless of their economic situation, support themselves with the protection the law provides. One question I wanted to direct to the highest. The Minister of the State is this: Was there a consideration of the type of wrongdoing that people experience when they suffer a small damage that may be lower than the fact that they justify seeking their legal rights? It's a large group of people who have been crushed in some way by one person, these are groups of attendances. Is there also reason to believe that the public is somehow following along and granting almost the people who are doing this to cause a number of people less harm than that they are willing to sue or afford to hire lawyers? To date, it has virtually required a legally educated person to place data into the committee that has dealt with failures. It has not been assumed that citizens would be able to deliver the data in a way that allows him to get a positive report. The other thing I wanted to ask about is, Is there something easier here for the general public to apply for a tenet without seeking legal assistance?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u24	V.E.G. President. Regarding the second point, of course, this is the case, and the legal action is needed. So they always come to the fore. If I understand the core of a question, why? A senator is correct. Is there any way that the city can seek help, perhaps even sooner, before it comes to... [[Got it right.]] Yes, I think that men have tried to provide all the guidance that is possible. I think it's probably going to be done by a businessman. However, this point has not been specifically examined. With regard to the first group attendance question, and perhaps another sort of case, there is mainly the thought of a change in the application of the adductions, of moving the ministry to the businessman's office, and then, making it a little easier for them to be helped to meet certain conditions. I can totally figure out what you're doing. A senator is going, or thinks I know it. There may be other issues. I'm afraid to take it out of this chair now if there's anything that's been seen in the background. I don't think I did.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u25	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the laws of civil handling and correct criminal treatment for the rejuvening of legal cases. This is a change in the 2nd issue of 1st. 214. gr. Act of criminal treatment and case 2 and 3 of the 3rd suit. 168. gt. the management of private matters and the requirement to make a decision that a judicial hearing should be repeated until a new judgment on the case is passed. These changes have been proposed by the conclusion of Iceland's Supreme Court on case No. 628/2015, of 25 February 2016, for instruction in the current 2nd issue of Article 1.mg. 214. gr. the treatment of criminal matters is the opposite of the constitution. This law requires that a committee of reimbursement be decided that prior judgments should be canceled. The Supreme Court indicates that the Re-Electment Committee is a administrative committee under the Commission. This law assigns to it a role that can be used to resolve legal solutions. Such a system is the opposite of a 2.gr. The constitution. So if the law is not a valid legal authority, it is not used. A corresponding source is found in the laws on private handling. This bill suggests the need for adjustments so that the proposed law does not oppose the constitution. There are no other modifications to the recurrence procedures but only these changes that result from the Supreme Court's decision to ensure that the law is in accordance with the constitution. A respectable president. I would like the bill to be followed by this discussion referred to why. A full commission and a 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to account for the discussions that took place at the moment. Foreign Affairs Committee between 2 and 3rd. That's what they wanted from you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson at 2nd. that the idea that one representative, i.e., would be applied more and more to the idea he has spoken about being added to the National Security Council of one representative. The toll manager. The committee discussed the matter at a meeting last Thursday, but in fact, as I have noted in previous discussions, much discussion on how the National Security Council should be conducted. A solid agreement was made to avoid adding more officials to this group of ministers. Then one representative from Landsbourg was added to make sure that there are also members who come to the public defense and such activities more readily than those of the government system. After a repeated discussion on the State Department and again last Thursday, which showed the importance of a good head in these matters, since it has been authorized and authorized to call in officials at any time necessary and may be expected to be searched often, it became a result of the Commission's decision that it should not be raised in the council but that it should adhere to the proposal as it had been proposed and the changes made in agreement that the committee had made with the objective of ensuring continued to maintain the wealth and solidarity that had been established. So the committee does not suggest a change in the case, as it was shown at 2nd. and hope that the matter will be successful, and the Senate will agree to do so in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u27	Madam President. When this issue was discussed, I was not able to attend a meeting of the State Department. On the other hand, I want to express support for the conclusions. The chairman of the Committee Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir described earlier. Of course, there are conflicting opinions about how to be composed without necessarily losing support for the matter. People have discussed the matter and have expressed different attitudes about how and who to sit on it. Therefore, I was sorry for being as nice a senator as a boy. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's stone should not be trusted to support it in the payment of 2nd. and I'd like to say that I'm fully supportive of this matter. I believe that all treatments of the situation from the beginning to the end are examples of how the General shall handle important matters involving interest, deep interest, the state of England. This case has taken a long time. It began when I was a minister of foreign affairs and started a job following the approval of the Council of Congress on National Security. There was a tad of shame on the part of the matter. That was my successor, the highest. the current marine road and agricultural minister Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, which brought down the errors that had occurred. Then it's the present level. The minister of the state of Alfreðsdóttir Alfredddóttir, who sails this case at port. This may be one of the most important policies adopted by the Council in later times. It is a low priority, but it is a matter of the highest security in the United States. There are two things I especially want to note about the coming of the council to the matter. First, the council took time. In a way, it was the time of three governments. In matters of such importance, it is absolutely permissible that the Allied Council takes ample time to deal well with the situation. Second, I feel that it is worthy of imitation and that it is important that men reach out to achieve a solidarity in this matter. When national security policy was approved, there was no vote against it. In fact, there was no one who voted against the matter of Congress that we now speak in 2nd. This is very important. This is worthy of imitation. It is in this way that the Allied Council of Iceland is dealing with this issue. How important it is when such a course of great interests is being shaped and is specifically considered in other nations that it will reveal rich agreements at the National Council on what can be called fundamental interests. I'd like to say this at the end of this story, thanking all those who have come, especially the two counsellors I mentioned before and before. The chairman of the Foreign Directors, who certainly also stretched far, and some members of the committee. It is important that humans do what they can in order to achieve as much as any greater solidarity in a case that is as important as this, as I said earlier, to the nation's deepest security, both inward and beyond.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u28	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct the changing of fish control laws, No. 116/2006, with subsequent changes. The bill is about the offer of additional codfish for the next year's fish fishing. Artists are down. paritaprevir Hjörvar, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Yorfólóttir Körfóttir Brynhildur, Yorfóttir, Ólafsdóttir Pétursdóttir Þótir Þóðfður Þóðvarsson, Páll Valur Björnsson, Otttir Proppé, Róbert Marshall, Birgitta Jóttttótir Jónsdóttir and Hrafn Gunnarsson. The bill is just two articles. 1st par. The bill reads: The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: If the overall forces of cod are increased for the'2016/2017 fishing year, dr. 1.mg. 3. gr., shall the minister ask the extra chef out to the highest bidder. Further regulations on the implementation of the decree must be agreed by the minister in accordance with local regulations. 2.g. Article reads: ▪ This law already comes into effect. Madam President. This adjustment is based on the best option for the fishing process to be used by the market in the use of fish resources. In the implementation of the mission, rules that take into account localities, prevent compression, and respect the specification of my development should be set. The use of tenders and markets is most direct when a certain species of fish is introduced or added as proposed by the Institute of Marine Research. The cost of fishing is unlikely to be reached until it is established on market grounds. One of the advantages of an offer is that rent fees paid for reimbursement will automatically swing by commercial fishing and reduce the likelihood of political intervention for rent prices. Thus, the amount of rent is not based on ecstatic decisions and the owners of the resource, the people of the country, can be confident that one person is not being lenient above another. The budget itself determines the cost of access to the resource by means of market oers, and it also prevents braking with quathane. Also, because political whims do not control the demand for future changes from one term to the next, the offer is sustained for long - term environment. There will be more distances within the system with available markets and innovations that will provide the most advanced opportunities for the drivers whether they are old or new. In the implementation of an offer, it is easy to take into account localities, prevent compression, and respect my specific eutrophication. Experience from an offer of distribution of resources around the world is widespread, and it is easy to look to neighboring nations, such as the Faeroes and the Norwegians, for good examples. If the right course is to correct the offer of injustice, which means that the benefits of economic management within the fishing field fall into the pockets of few people living in the sea. Fish markets in Iceland are good models for marketing solutions. It purchases fish without eating on a daily basis at a market. This enterprise has no other business insurance but that tomorrow's bid market will be active. There is no debate about fish prices in the fish market, for the buyer and the seller have agreed on prices. All of the land's fish industry has equal access to fish markets. Thus, innovation in fish farming is much easier than in the fishing industry. There are other good examples. Climate clearances are available, and Icelandic airlines, aluminiums, and other factories are bids for European markets while income is running into government funds. Telecommunications are used to select between telephone companies when the reporting areas for telecommunications need to be implemented and when the government assigns private transport tasks, special requirements are made. When people buy a roof over their heads, an offer is made at a market controlled by real estate dealers. Thus, there is good and broad experience with the opportunities in various forms, and it is very relevant when contributing to limited quality, such as natural resources. Now, those assigned to the food can put a full fishing fee in their own pockets by selling and renting a salad to the third party. For example, even small foods have had to pay more than 200 cents. for a kilo of cod, while the government collects only 13 cents. ... ata hunting fee according to the news from Fish Room. The results of the Marine Research Institute from the establishment of bottomfish in Iceland's 2016 centres were presented on April 20, 2012. The results of analysis are an important part of the annual assessment by the National Institute of Marine Research. The measures taken in March indicate the benefits of key bottom species and the prospects for increased recruitment in fish stocks and exaggerators. Finally, the results and suggestions of the Marine Research Agency for the next fishing year will be presented at the beginning of June, but they had not been introduced when this bill was written and the report was written. A bill on the bill shows a table of the Institute for codfishing the past few years. It shows that the increase for the current fishing year was 21 o'clock. a ton. A proposal has now been published for the next fishing year, and it was found to be slightly lower than the age of five. a ton. The whole fishing system must be transformed, but it is possible to take immediate steps in the right direction. The adjustment discussed here enables us to offer the additional one to the highest bidders. The rules for the decrees, which take into account localities, prevent compression and respect the specification of my outputs, will be set up by Regulation. By agreeing with the bill, you will find experience in the implementation of such exports and we will also be given an idea of the market price of markets. However, it can be expected that only 5 of you would be available. A ton would be worth more than if it were a larger bid, but an important experience on such a project is available. I wish, Madam President that the bill will go to what? The job committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u29	President. I'm sorry to your missus if I didn't provide clear evidence that I wanted to speak. But I'm going to take a few words on these excellent suggestions as chairman of my party, please. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir, moved here earlier. I believe this is one of the important issues, and indeed very important, that the High General will be taking over before he does his job and we're going to a campaign. I believe that one of the issues that have ended this nation in recent decades is a debate over the control of fishing. The public in the country feels that the resources in the ocean were stolen from them. I believe it is one of our most important roles that would make the Lawgiver see to it that that public property is returned to him. This will be best accomplished by setting up the policy that the Conspiracy first formed all political parties here at the High General Assembly, consisting of the gathering department, the farewell, the sale, and the value of all of us, i.e. ... ina treasureofthecreet. I believe that the best way to prepare it is to accept the proposal that the chairman of the United States is moving here. That's the first step. As it was in very clear and detailed terms, this is a step toward taking in experience and preparing to take the step to the full and put it in some way against all available resources. Like what? A senator trace is using this system to assign the right to limited resources around the world. My platoon, the Conspiracy, made this its first course. It adopted a policy as early as 2000, the day after I started my job as the first chairman of the United States, that all limited resources would be divided in this way, just as before. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir ran off earlier. I also believe that some of the critical those who have heard against this proposal were actually killed. The rest can be found, and the results of this system can be found. There, people have primarily spoken about two things. This could lead to the migration of resources from the coastal region and a sense of compression. As the first messenger of the matter stated in his clear speech earlier, it is easy to avoid them pennilessly by means of this process. This has been accomplished by others, and so will we. In addition, Madam President, I am suggesting that there are already some laws that prevent compression from becoming too much. People have tried to get around it. However, it seems to me that the Commission has a structure that is supported by legislation to avoid being avoided by humans. We can well ask ourselves, " If this way has gone down the goal that every factory can have in a section of a particular species. ' We can also take this course as it has been tore up from the Commonwealth to a part of the value of auctions in the labor departments to the particular or specific sea settlements. There are a number of tools that can be considered to ensure that the marine regions will benefit from close contact with the media and will also enjoy the freedom that will be involved in this process. I believe that one thing that has disturbed the world's thinking is the very fact that this ancient highway is closed. It is not for any ordinary Icelanders to get into a fishing road today. A person must have access to banks or a large capitalite in order to buy ships and mobilizations and harvest divisions. As a result, I believe that freedom and innovation in this article are greatly increased. That, too, matters. Yet, I would like to state that in recent years, the ocean route has shown great strength in its restoration. If we look at the saying system as it has been done in recent years, let us not forget its original purpose. Of course, it was primarily environmental. It was the protection of the resource. It was the protection of the strains, preventing them from being overfished. Whatever you say about the greeting system, it's reached this goal. We now live under the position, Icelanders, that the fish stocks here are called scientific protection and the only criticism heard, but often and loudly sound, in the course of this policy is that scientists and governments are being too careful. We're fishing too little. It may well be that in modern times, when the production is rising and when it is increasing, the claim may be more valid than careful scientists want to count. With this, I am less than measuring that scientists will be opposed. We've seen it in the past decade, it's only a decade since man's strict attention to scientific advice that the strains have been built. It is not just because we have followed this scientific stage but also because the changes in the marine environment have been for us and the institutions we use to benefit us. I am the opinion, as I have expressed in recent years from the General's symposium and once had a little knowledge of these sciences, that in the years to come, we will see that there will be an added regularity to the quatane. I believe that once that population size development is over, we'll be back in hunting 350 of you. a ton of cod. Also, changes in earth's weather patterns may lead to the loss of some of these strains. Let us not forget that there are changes in climates that have brought us the greatest benefit from the oceans in the last few decades, I'm concerned with saying, i.e. The macroil stock moved into Iceland's economic legal history only because there was a change in ocean temperature. They can also lead to the fact that in the future there may be colder species moving around and disappearing from the north, even from our economic history. I'm going to name a candidate for something that could be hairy. This must also be considered, especially in treaties. I mentioned the mackerel, and for good reason. Our cousins, the Offeys, made a trip to Iceland to study the ideas that were here and that have been developed primarily by experts and former members of the United States. The conclusion was that the Faeroe Islands decided to go almost as soon as the United States first introduced them to its Continental Assembly in 2000. It was in such a fine way that a man is offering in herring, and in a mackerel, at the same time as Icelandic builders pay a few cents and a few more to catch a mackerel, men get 20 and 30 times more for it in the Faeroe Islands. Can humans imagine what kind of money could be transferred into the pocket of a government fund, and hence to us into the combination if this way had gone, e.g. Like us in the United States, and others in the government side of the United States, did you want to talk about mackerel? The ability to imagine how much it could change and what a change could be made for, for example. The care of the elderly, the setting of the Land Hospital, the protection of disability? It's gonna have to be connected. The government has been defending its own interests for years - and these are special interests - the big business. In effect, this debate is about the struggle between the special interests of the few and the public interests. The public interest is that we, the nation, get the income from what is real to our property, and the law says that we get our income for the resource's rights. Like what? paritaprevir A couple of years ago, Oddný Harðardóttir said: "No one is going to learn about the article, so the best way to fix the fishing fee and what's taken from the use of the stocks is to go the market route. " The publication of this article will determine how much companies trust to pay for. The rate of hunting will swing after the release of this article. It is thus built up in the way this is being introduced by many members of the body that it takes into account the development of the business. It is built into it that she cannot walk so strongly that the article does not allow her to be reformed or suffer severe wounds. It's very important. Thus, the method presented here will ensure that the public interests are respected, that the owners, the nation, receive the product, and also protect the water. I believe, Madam President, this case must be decommissioned at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. Surely, this is just a step toward something much bigger. But the little one is a lot of sense. It's always a good thing to make a run for experience before people jump into the deep pool. Here is the perfect opportunity to try this approach on a small scale. We have seen that she has given up well in the neighboring nation of Faeroes. And why should we not take this step? I believe that in this council, in which the government has made such a big issue that needs to be settled, it is fair and just that the government situation will also have a problem and end the matter that it is concerned. We also see that the council has plenty of time. This has occurred in the last days when a council has occasionally been held around noon, as it was on Friday. There is no evening meeting in this last session of Congress because the government has no particular case that it feels is urgent to take care of. I specifically point to that. Davíð The Gunnlaugsson over the election may have to be delayed if the government's situation was to get in the way. But, Lord, what are we to get in for? There's nothing special about this council. And it was shocking to see that what happened to the matter as high as possible. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, said that it is vital to conclude with this council. What happened to them when they were submitted to the council? Yeah, they came here, three big cases, tops. The minister of finance and the well - known chairman of the Independence Party agree that it would be impossible to complete at once. What happened to them? They disappeared into the pits of the committee, which deals with them and is directed by the majority of the management team, were sent out for comment. And when to return the reviews? The day before an assembly is due. What kind of work is that? It only shows that here is a deception on the part of the government, no reference to what it says here that there's a big issue here when she herself is trying to hide her own issues. Where's the livestock deal, Madam President? Yeah, he's also stuck on a committee. Why? Because of a duke between the administrations. It's not the government situation that's getting in the way of that. When the head of the Chafier Party was talking about how the government was getting in trouble, he should look in the mirror, and at least he sees the situation. one set of eyes belonging to those who are stalling all major issues with inter-involved stress. Of course, the fact is that the cooperation between these currently established governments is over. This government is dead alive. [[Up front.]] She's, by permission of the President, ▪adad man Walter. You can't say it any other way. There is no major issue that the Senate can handle over major differences between the governments. We saw how the social minister mocked and derided the minister of finance, literally saying that the head of the Independence Party was not a believer in caring for the interests of a child's family, the elderly, and the desperate. When in the history of the council has it happened that a government minister in this way had completely subjugated or, by permission of a president, completely offended him? Instead, he pointed out that one of the issues for which the minister has fought is not even entered the government. It's hanging from the Department of Social Affairs computer. And then men come here and beat their breasts at the fact that the government's getting in the way. Madam President. [[The president calls.]] In this situation, I believe that it is reasonable, when it is clear that the council has plenty of time, to suggest as easily as possible. The head of the Conspiracy recommended for the final payment, which is at least The requirement for the senator who stands here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't want to leave the council without this proposal of a fishing auction being taken care of. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[For example: Are you having a blood-test?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u30	A respectable president. As mentioned by my fellow gangs, why? The 1st campaigner, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, and Össur's Skarphéðinsson, is a very important matter, and if there is any chance that there will be an increase, we'll probably be informed that the guy who's going to be invited and we can take a little step in offering a fish onto the market, fish that's going to hunt, resources, and see what the fishing project is all about to pay for the prize. It's a big complaint, and it's often been said that we in the United States haven't established our fishing policy until the last term. This is certainly true because our policy in fishing is that the price on the market will be determined. For that, we did not have a more controversy section last year. That's why we're not doing it. Not to be overlooked, however, is the fact that in cooperation with our government team, we were charged with hunting costs. It was the fishing fee, if I remember correctly, that was 13 or 14 billion in 2012/2013. Now, though, they have dropped by a total of 9 billion in this ideal period. There is a natural difference between setting up legislation on the fact that fishing warrants are offered either on the market or by the law that hunting fees are fixed and then calculated in the other way, and then the Senate, a Senate committee, can suggest that they now be reduced, rather than simply having the warrants offered on the market. There's more to it, and it happens that the structure itself can decide which price it is ready to pay for its resources. That's what matters naturally. It turns out then, when our neighbors and the Faeroe Islands begin to offer up their repertoire - and I have to say, as it is, that I'm having a bit of fun that now the Entires are coming here to the country to tell us how they offer their requisitions, but some years ago, politicians from the Faeroe Islands came here to learn from us, study the Union's policy, and talk to experts we've been looking for, and they're our top scholars how to determine the price of the market. Now, the Hostages who learned from us are going to come here and tell us how to do this. It's a little like when the egg starts teaching the chicken. But it's natural because this has been countered and it's first and last because of the enormous special interest some political groups have because the civilian fishing system continues and it continues to become as it has been, that the resource supply flows into the hands of the workers instead of sliding to society. And then, as we have seen in the reports and reports, these builders pay in the balance of political parties that care for their interests first and last, at the General Assembly. All of this is at the expense of the nation, society, and the welfare society we can build. It is true and has been observed before and last to protect the fish in the sea. He was overwhelmed. The fleet was way too big. As a respectable president knows, I'm not born yesterday. As it happens, when I was first calculated how to switch thetans onto a ship, I worked in the water. Then the power was falling. At first, the codfish had been, reminds me, near 600 of you. tons, then he went down to 400s. a ton, and then we're good now if we're getting it up to 220-260 yours. another ton. The objective then was to reduce the pursuit, so that fewer ships would go fishing, because the catch was too expensive. First of all, they were given too much. The powder was out of hand. Then there was the cost, there was too much investment in ships, and the cost of catching these fish was far too great. Then, a lot later or several years later, men have a boat and ships, and they even start selling their ships, and then they have goodbyes to rent out men's goodbyes. At that time, this tremendous property and income transfer will be in society. It begins to profit, not only naturally, but also by selling to other sources or by renting other sources to catch that fish. I remember that my only acquaintance and I shared a lot about it. I said that the eating system was completely impossible, and I meant it because of the great influence it had on the division and income exchange in society. However, he was a naturalist, or biologist, who believed that the eating system had been very good because it had protected the fish stocks and could be built up again and so on. That's right. This has proved beneficial in this regard. The other one's a pain in the ass. There's something else annoying about the dinner system, such as not being invited to the market, and there's no newcomer in this article, unless you're incompetent and able to buy a ship. Those who want to start in small numbers do not find out. That is why it can be said that when it comes to the fishing road that has been our basic way to this and will continue for a while, although more people will hopefully be added to that group, for which I can recall nothing other than that it has always been necessary here to promote the support of the country's economy. I hope we can make it. Yet, the fishing route will always be one of the basics. True, the beaches have come in, and although they do not have to say good - bye, they have been able to catch them. Yes, it is possible. But I think we need to reevaluate all of this, and we need to get the resources out of the market. There are also some methods that can be used. But it's the next step. First, it needs to be made clear that if the principle of obtaining warrants is sold on the market, there will be some things, i.e. an expiration rate, as it were, some part of what is now going on in the current industry. It's necessary. This is a major step in destroying the conflict that exists in society and caused by the enormous division of wealth and income in this small country, it irritates people, they don't understand it, they don't want it. We need to change such a society. I'm sure that the proposal that we're making here, as we're taking a little step towards this big change that is necessary to cause the big plague that's now divided and the wrong distribution of the national cake, that it will be destroyed. This is what we have to do. This is the job. I really hope and demand that we get into a later discussion about the matter by September 2 when a council is due to be concluded here. But I'm not going to have any more words to say about this and I've finished talking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u31	V.E.G. President. I come to say a few words and to rejoice that the chairman of the United States.... paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir, has come up with this case. Of course, we in the council are with her as well as agents from the Bright Future and the Pirates. It is simple and very easy to settle during this summer session, unlike the various matters under consideration. I'm going to read the suggestion, change, that's a bill. It states that by permission of the president, there is a temporary addition of the law to new laws: If the total power of cod is increased for fishing in 2016/2017, dr. 1.mg. 3. gr., shall the minister ask the extra chef out to the highest bidder. Further regulations on the implementation of the decree must be agreed by the minister in accordance with local regulations. A new fishing year begins September 1. It's not long before, but it's easy to make such a rule. This would be a good step, not that I would like to recommend this government in particular, for I believe a great deal of national agreement to get rid of it as soon as possible so that we can reverse the trend that they have triggered, to get along with the people of the fishing system. Hv. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir had a good share of wealth in this community. By doing so, we would be going to the market of biofuels, taking relatively small steps but starting in the market access to fish sources that have no present quality. Some preparations have paid nothing for their fishing grounds, and others have to rent them without charge. The funds of that rent, not the national wealth, but the pockets of counterfeiters. The forwarding and independent party government wants to open schools, the health system, the student loan system, and the road system. But it does not want a market law on agriculture and fishing. Is it not surprising that a group such as the Independence Party, which claims to be part of the economy and employment market, want market areas that are not at all out of place, a public service that we all have but consider to be a bare sector in this context of some kind of almarcation that would get dolls like a skirt-creatist term? I just want to say that there should be a meeting at the employment committee right after this meeting to send this case out to a brief review so that it can be approved for the fishing year and take a little step in agreement and see how it goes with the auction of labour. Why do I feel that this is unlikely to happen to an independent party and a forwarding party? Yes, what they class is most afraid of is that by means of an auction, there will be a visible profit each year from the nation by handing over the resources that will be chosen for a price.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u32	A respectable president. I am happy that this matter has come on the agenda, although the reason is now known to be true, not only from the government but also from the council and from the state of the administration. But it's a good thing to have an opportunity to discuss this important matter, and you really miss the executives here from the discussion, especially because they've worked so hard at it during this season to reduce the cost paid in the common budget for using the fish industry at Iceland, as much as it is. Of course, being rich in resources is a big loan for us Icelanders. In order to give an idea of the size of our resources, it is so that for every human child in Iceland, we hunt nearly ten kilograms every day, actually every day, every day of the week. Of course, it is much more than we can ever eat. That is why, in vast currency incomes, there is a moderate force. But that does not always profit from being rich in resources. It shows that the way nations control their resources depends on whether they will be a good fortune or a direct misfortune, for many of the countries in which there are the most difficult countries in the world are just a resource-rich nation where international corporations have been able to take over the resources and the inhabitants enjoy nothing from it. We in the Union have found the greatest example of how Norway's peers have had the advantage of ensuring national possession on important resources, such as their huge oil resources, and have resulted in their success in a far better way than to produce Dana in their time, to ensure the public a share of the high value of oil resources. In Denmark, however, this has been built up by government with a special resource fund. It's our struggle in the United States that me and the Icelanders go the same way, building resources for our resources, not only fishing the resource, but some of the other resources we are rich in and will become rich in the future. We can mention the tides, the earth's heat, such as pollutant vapors, air communications circuits, such as rare matter in the earth, in life, and so on. And that this, the natural interest of Icelanders, the combined income of this resource, runs into this common resource fund, which is spent to promote and strengthen the well-being of the country and the growth and survival of society. It would be best for us to know that the price paid by the private cash paid for the use of the resources would run onto the market. It is simply rights that are offered up and individuals and companies sit at the same table, that all can make such rights, whatever names they call, and that the person at the best receives the rights simply and repays the Icelanders together. We can use it to build Land Hospitals, promote health systems, strengthen educational funds, or improve the interest of older people, or what other social projects we consider important to make money possible. It is clear that we can earn a lot more from our resources as a team than we do today. It has, in fact, been extremely ignorant when so many people in the community, especially among the pensioners, the elderly and the desperate, are in want while conditions in the Land Hospital and in many health - care systems are characterized by so much lack, that they have had a priority, our government groups, to reduce our combined income from the resources of the country, while this great need is so common to people and to the institutions of the welfare system. However, people have been doing this to see that many companies are in the fishing business because they have assumed that they will be able to make long - term use of these rights. Hence, it is not natural to type the relics at once. Rather, it has to happen over time. This matter of Oddný, however, as Director of the United Harðardóttir, is expected to take only what is about to increase, i.e. Only the improved one, but only what man could not expect. The sources they have and may have expected to have some loss of custody are kept in place. But the growth, the increase, the natural income, and the equality among those who are seeking to use these growing financial sectors. I think this is a very moderate step, and at the same time important. If there isn't more part of it here at the council, because I want to say that this step is not in any conflict, as I see it, with some of the things the U.S. Senate has said, and truly in the direction that the government has spoken, and therefore perhaps more serious to the matter, no matter what happens at the council, it's at least What a joy it is that the political parties that have now declared that they will not be behind elections working with the Independence Party and that are completed, as the situation is now being able to get more part of a Senate after election, all of whom have said that the auction route in the ocean's outings is to be considered. It gives you hope that you can do that in the next few weeks, at least. After 29 October, a political scheme was established in many categories for ensuring the country's increased income jointly by its resources, for doing so by means of an auction and using it to improve the quality of large groups that have been served by, the family, the disability, and the elderly, and for the failures of the welfare system by allowing funds to be used to build up the hospital and other important welfare projects. I hope that, until then, men can unite in the Senate's economic affairs, offering increased resources simply so that they sit at the same level as normal market fees obtained from the common resources of all Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u33	A respectable president. I'm not going to give a long talk, but I think it's important to draw attention to the policy of Pirata in the fishing business. It includes taking up a set of principles from a material administrative body as well as that the Icelandic nation, the owner of the resource, should offer retails on open markets and that the rent will flow into a state fund and that all its resources will be public information. There are more things in this policy than only this, but as an importer of this fine language, I thought it was important to mention that there will be an ever greater level of reconciliation, I want to mean, in the community, about going that auction route. She's fair. It's a marketing solution. I sometimes find it a little strange that those who call themselves right don't approve that way, because it's, in my opinion, very good and really no perplexing reason not to leave it if the goal is to hand out fishing warrants in some reasonable way, from both economic and fair presidents, i.e. to the nation as well as to those who would offer in tracts. That's all I was going to mention, but to call attention to this policy, and I think that in time, this route, the auction route, will become a reality. It's just a matter of how much complaints and moaning on that road.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u34	Mr. President. I recommend a synonym to which I am the 1st traveller, but with me on this proposal, everyone is at the same time. paritaprevir The left movement of ◯ green supply. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide environmental and resource ministers from working on measures aimed at turning Iceland into a non-carbon objector in 2050. In the policy framework, the programme will be set up and its main aspects and areas described, such as transport, energy farming, manufacturing, planning, and transport. There will also be a series of step-by-step actions, review and reassessment rules, definitions of responsibility for implementation and follow-up requirements. This proposal was distributed early this spring, which suggests that policy development will be introduced to the Allied Environmental Transport Committee (EEC) on October 1, 2016, but the full action programme for carbon-free Iceland will be submitted to the General Assembly in the form of a synonym proposal no later than March 1, 2017. This proposal is intended to try to achieve a complete range of goals that have already been pursued in Iceland, e.g. by signing the Paris Convention, which has not actually been validated yet, but we have been repeatedly assured that it will be validated by this council. I'm just hoping it'll work out. The proposal is intended to achieve a complete grasp of the policies that we have already applied so that they will all be together in one plan. Yesterday's energy exchange program was formed from the highest level. Secretary of the trade. We've discussed environmental factors and climate impacts from domestic agreements in this room. We've discussed transport plans and the potential for climate impacts. It is vital that we consider this assignment that we look at the whole, so that the individual plans of the State or the government work together toward the goal. The proposal itself is not a plan of action. It actually suggests that this strategy will be implemented. Of course, I don't have to get into that this is a matter that has been discussed many times at the council, i.e. about the effects of carbon dioxide on the weather and the climate on the earth. The fact is that the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has increased up to 35% in the last two centuries in connection with industrialization of society. Thus, there is a strong and conclusive correlation between human activities and increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Although human activities are only partly responsible for this emissions, it is clear that this addition disrupts natural balance and causes problems. This, of course, is a major factor in burning fossil fuels, but also the destruction of forests and other ecosystems as well as emissions from the most advanced land. Thus, increasing greenhouse gas concentrations are not limited to industrial and transport emissions but also from forestry, agriculture, and the implementation of wetlands as well as other activities. The release of goodhouse gas in Iceland in 2012 was analysed and classified in the response of the Environment and Resource Minister of this Parliament, which appeared on the basis of the Article. 215. There it was found that 42% of the emissions related to this International Emission Protocol we are involved in the Kyoto Protocol came from industrial and chemical use, while the highest greenhouse gas emissions contributed to the implementation of the country. Thus, all emissions from activities falling below the Kyoto Protocol were in value of 4,468 tons of carbon dioxide, while emissions from the advanced moats were in value of 9,466 carbon dioxidetons. This may seem complicated, that we are members of international emissions accounting, and with special disposal accounts. I agree with that. This, of course, is the same atmosphere, and everything we do affects it. But these are just tools, and we can get involved in discussions about them, but the big thing is, of course, the goal. I would like to mention that before this council was adopted, a panel of members of the left movement was adopted for the establishment of a climate council. I hope we recall the reports that the Environment and Resource Minister has appointed it. It was designed to monitor the progress of climate change and greenhouse gas emissions and particularly make proposals to the government for measures to reduce climate change, inform the public and the government on climate development, as well as contribute to the awareness of the party. I'd like to say that if this proposal is approved, and this very modest objective that I believe it is could play very well together with a newly formed climate council that would have the responsibility to shape such a strategy. In Paris, some have called the most important meeting of this century, which originally discussed the obligation of the nations to commit themselves so that temperatures would not rise by more than two degrees in the century. Eventually, the wording became available, so it could be read in the range of 1.51⁄2 ° C. Actually, it was very prominent during the climate meeting that 1.5° should be the normal goal, although many countries did not want to go all the way, since the difference between 1.5° and 2° is enormous. Then I'm talking about countries that are particularly sensitive to climate change. I can mention Pacific Island in this context that is directly at risk of disappearing below sea temperature by more than 1.5 ° C. The vast majority of the world's countries have agreed on this trend, that man - made impacts on this trend, and it will influence how we live here our human communities, both in terms of global warming and also the changes in weather conditions, increasing extremes in the weather, impact on ecosystems as we may see the decrease in species with unforeseen consequences, changes in ecosystems in different parts of the world. There's an unseen e.g. what exactly this will have in the north. It is predicted that the climate change will be greater here than in many other parts of the globe, so we will probably feel it. Of course, we are talking about a future that is not mistaken, but it is even talking about more precipitation, more frequent storms, and more frequent storms are saying that the acidification of the ocean is a threat to Iceland's nature. Thus, we feel that there are very important measures to be taken, and I am concerned that government plans for achieving the goals of the Paris Convention are still not known, even though after being asked at the council. Now in February, Iceland's Natural Protection Association sent a letter to the Environment and Resource Ministry asking for clear answers to the target of the already published greenhouse gas shutdown. For this purpose has not yet been answered. That's a worry. In this regard, representatives of all classes need to go down on one thing to reach the goals we have agreed on. The fact that Iceland is going to be a non-carbon share of 2050 is a very realistic goal. Actually, I would have liked to see that year a lot earlier. But by making this annual presentation, we follow the senators of the left green, which contributes to the international currents. I'd most likely like to say at the latest 2050 in this history. I remind you that the Council of the North has recently published a report on the ways we are capable of achieving this goal. It is based on the year 2050. But we need to realize that in order to achieve, for example. The target of 1.5° i.e. that the temperature does not exceed 1.5°, we, Iceland, Norway and the European Union need to look to the target of reducing emissions by 55% by 2030, i.e. Not necessarily reaching non-carbon fractions, but it has reached down by 55%. What can we do? It is possible to reduce emissions and increase carbon binding. It is suggested that we do not take steps, for we stress that such measures are being carried out by experts and in the best political agreement for this objective. I think we need to face the fact that while sorting various environmental issues in their policies, climate change is such a matter that it is our duty to try to achieve the best transpheric agreement. Several things have been done. I mentioned that energy exchange has been discussed. Of course, this needs attention. We need to consider how we can, for example. Reduction of air transport emissions. How can we reduce emissions from ship traffic? There, fishing companies have taken various naval operations to reduce emissions. This, however, requires that we consider. Is it normal how cheap aeroplane costs can be? Do we provide for a real escape route by means of a plane? This is not a popular debate, for it is normal for everyone to be able to buy cheap flight costs, but this is a discussion we need to take in conjunction with such a strategy. It is important to consider how we are going to use a tax system to create a natural impulse to reduce emissions. This was yesterday's energy exchange program, perhaps primarily on transport and energy exchange. However, it is important to look to what has been done and what results have been obtained from the actions under attack, e.g. how successful it has been to push a bicycle, for example, in the capital city. What is the effect of promoting public transportation? What is the effect of reducing public transport services, etc.? It is also important that part of this program centers on how we run e.g. State agencies. What is an eco-efficiency in the way we run government agencies? Can we go ahead with a fine example in this, for the sake of shopping the Kingdom? Is it reasonable for every government agency to take certain green steps in their business to reduce climate impacts? This is part of the case. We need to ask ourselves, " How can I increase the level of carbon binding and then give evidence of the recovery of wetlands, agriculture, and forestry, as we have talked about? ' All of this matters, whether we are talking about industry, air travel, fishing, normal transport, individuals, and then the binding part, but also the general business. We've been discussing that equality should be part of public policy in all sectors, shouldn't climate be part of public policy? It's been, like, investing in vehicles as environmentally compatible as possible? For example, are car strengths used more than bicycle grants? Small and big. We'll discuss a livestock contract and a tax agreement soon. What is the climate effect of this? What is the climate effects of transporting food halfway around the globe to Iceland, while we may be able to cultivate these foods ourselves with considerably less environmental impact? I mention some operations that we can perform. But the important thing is that we have accepted a certain commitment. We're going to validate that commitment, as I said earlier, and it's very important that it will be done, preferably at this council, as the government's two advisers have promised us, even though, of course, the case has not yet been submitted. We need a clear view of how we are going to achieve this commitment, how we will fulfill it. Of course, it's not okay for us to get answers, clear answers to these strategies. Of course, it is not all right that they are not in the middle of an open, transparent process, and they may have as a broader expression. Climate problems should not be a private matter of one party or of some politicians; they should be handled as the most extensive consultation. We also know that in this sector, we need to be very aware that research and new knowledge are constantly giving a different view of exactly what measures are best. We need to be ready to look at things with the attitude that what we considered best ten years ago is not necessarily best today based on current research and knowledge. Therefore, it is important that we keep up - to - date with this discussion at the council and that it expands into the community, since it is also important for the public to participate in such activities. This plan is submitted and I really don't see why we could accept it. It is in harmony with what is happening in other parts of the North, in harmony with the commitment we already have made, and it allows us to deal with it so that we can make real success of the fight against climate change and can truthfully say that we have met the commitments we have already made. My time is running out, Mr. President. Finally, I want to say that I think it's important that this group of subjects have a clear place in the administration. Climate is under the Environment Ministry. Many countries have made it a point to have a special climate minister. I don't know if that's necessary in Iceland. But perhaps the climate should remain in charge of the Ministry of Presidency to show political importance, depending on how we value this sect. As I told you before, Iceland angers its natural resources, we are probably the people who speak the most about the weather. I think we can face the fact that this matter is going to be extremely important to us in the future. They must have the place in political discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for his history on this matter, of course, is worthy of all interest. I agree with what. A senator that there is something that all political parties should be concerned about, but I also point out that environmental matters are not limited to talk about things that humans can specifically point out in the environment but that nature protection is involved in various ways, especially in improving the interests and interests of the citizens of the country so that each of us can be concerned by various means, e.g. by replacing old contaminating cars with less contaminated cars and even washing machines so that you only expand the discussion beyond what is easy to focus on when it comes to environmental issues. Actually, to form, I wondered, because of what. A senator mentioned that last night had the highest power. A professional secretary's recommendation for a synopsis of energy exchange, of course, is that this proposal should not have been more extensive than it is. It involves a resolution to the highest. Environment and resource minister, but wouldn't it have been closer to the entire government? I'm glad there's a reference to me from the highest level. Environment Minister for switching the real emissions of carbon dioxide in Iceland and I'd like to ask why. A member of Parliament whether it is a monopoly that agrees to use as the most accurate figure when it comes to the release of Iceland's total carbon dioxide. [[The president calls.]] During the discussion, I have found that men are referring to the wrong numbers only by references to accounting practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, the environment has to do with all categories, said so. A senator, who showed that it was important for the public to be concerned and able to do so. Of course, it is important that the public be concerned about these matters, individuals do so in their own existence, and they are able to achieve those goals. But I also feel that it is important to point out that the government in this country has accepted a certain commitment. It is the responsibility of the government to build that frame so that institutions, employment, and the common people of the land can live up to that obligation. It is government to bear the responsibility, although it is vital that the public be involved. Of course, it is also important that the people in that country become part of it, but I think it is important that we underscore that governments have a responsibility for these commitments. Sometimes I feel in an environmental discussion that too much responsibility is referred to individuals, that they have each one of the responsibilities I think we must solve together. In terms of the Parliamentary Directive itself and the format, it is suggested that environmental and resource ministers be assigned to shape the programme because the climate issues are under Environment and Resource Ministers. I mentioned in my history that maybe the most natural thing to do is the big deal that has to influence all policy measures - like that. A senator rightly pointed out that there is a energy exchange program for discussion, which is being discussed at various fronts. Perhaps it would be most reasonable for a prime minister to take this party and oversee it in order to ensure its progress in different litigations. That may be the problem. The Environment and Transport Committee, which I shall propose, concluded that it is reasonable to refer to the government as a whole because the matter differs from the Ministry. Of course, it is normal to talk about the right figures. In my speech, I reviewed that there are certain differences between the discussion that cites the international release bookbook and the home bookbook, we can say in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I'll find out in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u37	A respectable president. Yes, I wanted to get a little closer to those official numbers. In answer to me, which is referred to in the existing Parliamentary decree, it is precisely stated that emissions from the most advanced country in Iceland are far more than any other emissions falling under the Kyoto Protocol. I'm a little critical of the presentation of this reference to the answer to me on the icicle. 215 from this council. I don't think that's clear enough. The figures are that the total emissions in Iceland account for 72% from the busiest country. Release from e.g. Cars hold only 4%, and emissions from the seaside are only 3%. In this light, I have felt that when people want to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, there is too much activity to focus on. Like what? A senator correctly points out that the government accepted commitment to reduce emissions in Iceland, about 40% if I remember correctly. Hv. A senator mentioned that the proportion could possibly be 55%. Let's put it between parts, but let's agree to reduce emissions. Even if this council proposal does not involve certain actions, I would like to ask you why. A senator whether it matters when measures are taken to reduce emissions from the source of this release. It would be interesting to hear an opinion. A senator on which to reduce the emissions of carbon dioxide would most likely be reduced by the figures currently available from the Environment Minister and have enjoyed favor at the National Agriculture University of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] The UN Climate Committee has also signed and recognized that carbon dioxide emissions can be reduced in Iceland and that Iceland will thereby live up to its commitments by restoring wetlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u38	Mr. President. Just so I can finish it, it can be confusing, as I said in my speech, that we are on the side of a global release book, and then we have what I called them the disrespectful words of a home book, i.e. This is a release book for Iceland. When governments discuss how to reduce emissions, they have in effect said that what is inside the International Release Protocol is not even possible, it was not considered to be just watching home accounting. I'm asking if we're not talking about the same air. Of course, it is important that we have a common understanding of these matters because of the circumstances. A senator asks about numbers. This report presents a number of measures. Hv. A senator has described a special interest in the recovery of wetlands, for example, as a vital procedure. The important thing to me is that we look at all of this in all areas and that reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases should not have any other ecological impact to evil, i.e. to appreciate the effect of what we do. That is why I discussed the need for us to take into account the latest research and knowledge we are trying to make decisions as to what we will do to reduce emissions. It is very important that we not only reduce emissions but also be very aware of what other ecological effects it may have. I take a random example. We can watch that there is a talk about cultivating some sort of uniform forest to ensure that we produce more oxygen, but it may have some effect on the ecosystem we also want to provide for. That is why I rejoiced earlier that it had been agreed to set up the climate Council, for we need to take advantage of the knowledge we have and to try to anticipate as we might be able to make the impact of our actions. And I think we're gonna do what. A senator can agree on this, and I appreciate her interest in this matter because, as I said in the beginning, we will not be successful unless we achieve the best interpolitic solidarity on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u39	V.E.G. President. I come up here to describe my support for this proposal for understanding policy and non-carbonization strategy in 2050, and I'm one of the co-sponsors of the proposal. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has done well, but what I would like to add and accept in the discussion is the importance that we always consider these matters whole - souled, i.e. with all the issues that we're going to discuss at the Council and the Council. A senator, in fact, came in only in his entropy speech. I've got a seat. A foreign Commission where we now have the so-called toll agreement with the European Union for discussion. The Commission has spent quite a while in the contract, which, of course, is good and blessed, and has been examined by the interests and influence of farmers, specific farms, and the effects that the customs agreement will have on shops and consumers. I think it is perfectly normal and just for the committee to spend a good time examining these factors. What I and others have for you. However, the State Department has criticized that there are a number of analyses of the impact of the contract, to form environmentally, as no analysis has been performed on it e.g. what the eco-contract agreement, if it be accepted, has. Among other things, it has been said that the case is a toll agreement, so it is not the scene to be considered for the development of environmental protection. It may be said that, of course, environmental issues cannot be addressed directly at a tax agreement. However, I feel that it will have a contract like this, which, of course, has been signed under controlled warning, so the Council has the choice to reject or accept it, that, of course, it must be subject to analysis of the effects of which he is involved in having on the various aspects of society. Therefore, I feel very sad that he was not diagnosed in a environmental way that it could be taken into the overall picture when it comes to voting either with him or with him. This I think is just one example showing the need for policy development and, in fact, how far we have to go. There are plenty of other issues that can be cited as cases missing all analyses, all policies on which to handle each individual case when it comes to climate. For one thing, I believe this council-sense proposal is of utmost importance and exactly the right way here, to hide environmental and resource ministers working on such policies. But I'd like to agree too. paritaprevir In his introduction, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter said that this may simply be heard under the Ministry of the Presidency. If we are serious about being serious about climate issues, this is a matter that needs to go through all the issues that come from us as the General. I wanted to use the opportunity to point this into the context of this particular assembly case, i.e. The toll agreement, which we are now in our discussion at the General Assembly and use as an example of where I believe is just a policy, a plan of action, of having something in our hands, will help us to make informed decisions as to whether we want to support or reject, or in other matters where changes can be made, whether and what changes we think are necessary to make. That's why I think it's a conquistador proposal that speaks into the future and the plans for the future that we have to perform at the General Assembly. That is why I hope that she will be approved and that soon she will be able to work for her. In fact, it may be a bit sad to say that this is a matter of Congress. Of course, this should come from what happened. Environment and resource minister. But the suggestion is made here, and I hope we accept it and start working.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u40	A respectable president. Because we're what we're supposed to be. All of us don't have a bad night in this room. I wanted to ask you why. A senator to explain a little more clearly what she was referring to. She noted that it was paying off in that ideal a customs agreement with the European Union. If I know this correctly, there are several agrienvironmental products involved in the contract between Iceland and the European Union. I wanted to pray. A senator confirms that he is. If so, I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether she feels that she might be able to contain the import of that cheese, e.g. or the agrienvironmental products that the contract has to do with the environment. Granted, these cheeses and agricultural products are transported by airplanes or ships while a method has not been developed to send them to Iceland electronically.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u41	V.E.G. President. It is true that in the tax agreements it discusses the import of the various agricultural products from the European Union. It is certainly there. under cheeses and other foods as well. We find ourselves in a position to accept either the whole agreement or to reject it as a whole. The Foreign Affairs Committee can't pick up certain factors and say: Yes, it's fine, we need to move in more of this kind of cheese. On the stick, as it were, the import of a variety of other agrienvironment products is hanging, as it were. a lot of talk about white meat, both poultry and pork. The discussion will include: been about the circumstances under which this meat is produced in other countries. It's the only possible import of beef. What I'm saying is, we need to have some sort of diagnostic analysis of that, for example. the environ ment of the meat produced in these European countries is based on the environ ment of the meat we consume in the domestic market. We cannot do anything but reject everything or accept everything. You can't pick up some specific products. There's a lot of exciting cheeses I could really enjoy eating. It's bigger than that. That's why I think it's so important that we have analysis of the overall context, even though there's a number of things I think it's even necessary to import, because we'll always have to import some food. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u42	A respectable president. I see why. A member of the Parliament so that it would have been more than enough for her to bind the agricultural products that are not produced here. It correctly shows that this is not possible. You need to accept this whole deal or not. But if I understand why. A senator correctly would have preferred to do so. Then comes the question: What can be produced here on the land and what can't be done? It changes from time to time, very fast. Especially in accordance with demand. All right. No one may be surprised to learn that we have a serious disagreement. A senator of the left green and mine, about what extent can the individual's shopping freedoms be limited in this respect. But she specifically mentioned agricultural products. So I wondered, too, because, for example, we canceled. Customs and merchandise on clothing and shoes were not so long ago, perhaps they too would have been in trouble. A senator from the ecology theory referred to. Of course, here we can produce leather pants similar to those seen in a Senate hall today. Is it her aim or what she wanted to see, customs on e.g. import of such clothing, even if it is not from agrienvironmental products or linked to agrienvironmental products, clothing in general, with reference to eco-efficiency? Is it a course or two? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u43	V.E.G. President. I keep my mind focused on environmental matters. In my opinion, information about the effects, as I discussed in my case, is missing from the various subjects that we handle and handle at the General Assembly. There are, of course, more issues than customs. There was an article, I thought, in a matter of course. A senator was prepared to state that I was simply against the freedom of shopping. Not at all. However, I think it is very important that when it comes to making decisions, there should be a lot more shoppers than the freedom of shopping alone. One major factor is the environmental impact of what we make decisions. In fact, there are other factors that I think we should always keep in mind and keep as one of the points we use as a standard on the matter. We can, for example. look at the situations in which goods are produced, not only in a environmental way, but also in whatever circumstances people are working to produce goods. I think we need to have a good analysis of the environmental impact of the issues we are involved in because that is, in my opinion, one of the major factors that we need to consider when we make up our minds and decide whether we will support or reject certain issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u44	V.E.G. President. I come up here to express full support for this proposal for interpretation by the U.S. Department of the Left Motion ◯ Green Pronunciation. Last day, on the front page of the Internet services, we learned that after two years there will be an open passage through the North Pole. Such openings will speed up the melting of the Greenland Bay. Each month you are taking a fever record. It's getting hot. We're in that position. Sadly, climate change from greenhouse effect has become a very close - up reality, especially in certain parts of the world, to the inhabitants of the earth. It is very important that we as rich people who have a lot of renewable energy take our responsibility and set a course like this in 2050 on carbon-free Iceland. I just wanted to come up here and say I'm happy with this suggestion from my partners in the left green. I also wanted to express concern that the government did not come up with a program based on the Paris Convention on Climate Issues since the meeting of the United Nations last year in Paris. V.E.G. Environment Minister said that she should enter the council now at the summer council. Of course it's a matter of foreign ministers. It's an international deal. I'm concerned that the government has not brought this matter to Congress now. Of course, climates are big. There are a lot of big cases in the political world, but this is the biggest case. It's a threat to life on earth. This will cause us earth's inhabitants to fail, but it is our common responsibility to respond with far greater determination than it has so far. Of course, climate is not easy for us to fit poorly into the ideal system. Here we need to think far ahead. We need to take responsibility far beyond the rocks. Iceland is in a very good position to set a good example. In other words, Mr. President, I support this whole matter and thank you for the fact that it has been submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u45	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity to open up on this already existing council mobilization proposal. I remind you that last night went to the highest command. Professional Minister for Parliamentary Recontraction Directive on energy exchange measures. These two Parliamentary proposals may be a slight overlap, but up to one of them is probably interested in the isolation of the carbon dioxide debate or the discussion of carbon dioxide emissions, taking them into consideration in this field. I wondered if a synonym would have been rather not directed to the entire government. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator, a member of this proposal, and I agree that the environment is not a personal matter or a matter that can be heard under one department rather than a much wider issue. In this regard, I also come to see a little at ease the synoptic proposal recommended yesterday of the highest order. Professional secretary, except for some operations there were announced. I just wanted to mention this form for the sake of it. It is also so that environmental matters are not specific to the administration or politics. The environmental issues have to do with all political groups, are parapolitic. The environment is also in its wide range of economics, at least to equal the state of the environment. So I think it would be good for nature protection and environment to be able to expand the platform, if I may allow myself to use that boring word, for a specific discussion of nature protection or environment. I would like these discussions to remind me of an answer as the highest. Environment Minister has granted me my inquiry in the last winter of this council. Then my question was how EU greenhouse gas emissions are divided. I received an interesting answer, so to speak, and based on the narrow environmental and environmental discussions, some might have been surprised to learn how this exchange is about emissions. The answer shows that according to the best available information, 72% is due to carbon dioxide emissions in Iceland from the implementation of the country that has occurred here during the last 50 years or so. Only 4% letters from land transport, i.e. Standard transportation, and 3% from fishing roads, from other transport methods some less. This was of interest to me in view of the actions taken by men in the name of environmental protection and in the environmental discussion, especially the actions of the left government during the last term. At that time, automobile owners, homes in the country, were severely weighed by specific measures. Let it be, though men might have wanted to reduce their road trip. No one may be surprised to learn that I have a problem with my left men. But the actions, as specific as they were, and as such measures are, included such heavy consumption control that, for example, large numbers of people have been driven from driving fuel cars to diesel cars. This was done by the left management of special automobile costs aimed at car carbon emissions or automobile carbon dioxide emissions, thus saluting diesels beyond fuel cars. As far as I'm concerned, today's market share of diesel trucks, from 2013 to 22015, actually, I think it's much higher now, from 30% to 50%, in sales of new cars in Iceland. This is much higher today, in 2016. In fact, I was looking at cars the other day, and I was just told that it was very hard to get gas cars. It would be just the diesel trucks because the fuel trucks could not compete against diesel trucks because of taxation and government taxation. In addition to the diesel trucks, this is not only a consumer control but it is a result of a highly hazardous consumer control because diesel trucks are generally 12% more expensive in shopping. They spend more money to buy more expensive cars. I'm not going to have an opinion on how cars need to be held and just talking for me, but I have nothing to do with a diesel car. The serious thing is that diesel trucks pollute more and more dangerous than fuel cars. They leave wastes, waste wastes that are now more dangerous than carbon dioxide's emissions. I would like to consider this as an example of what can happen when people are going to try to manipulate all the details of human consumption and control human consumption in this case in the interests of environmental protection, but they look so narrowly at the matter that they lose sight of all kinds of unpredictable side effects, new information that may arise later, and cannot respond in a necessary way as necessary. I hope the current government puts forth every effort to finish this work, but I understand that there is a review of all of this at the Ministry of finance. But it's important to keep this up, because I'm sure it's okay. A senator, a member of this council-student arrangement, and I agree that it is completely unacceptable to control human consumption of what, in the best sense, is more contaminated than it was already. This is the result of the actions of the left government during the last terms. It is pity, the left control, because at that time it may have based on the information that land transport or automobile use in Iceland depended on the total emissions of carbon dioxide in Iceland. But at least now it's at least for it is not. The UN Climate Commission or UN Scientific Committee on Climate Change has decided to improve this strategy of emissions from the most advanced wetlands in its calculus and recognize that the recovery of wetlands may be one factor in reducing carbon dioxide emissions from an designated land. This is what I think the Icelanders need to examine very carefully, the possibility of this. If we want to reduce real emissions in Iceland, not just accounting emissions, we need to look at real emissions and where we can get real results before we start paying huge taxes on homes in the country and possibly, as we do today, direct people to more contaminated consumption. Finally, I want to thank you for the discussion and then take a stand on this matter when it comes to paying a vote. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u46	A respectable president. Hv. A senator briefly reviewed an answer he received from a minister of his day, and this certainly is interesting. Hv. However, a senator is impressed that the use of cars is not the largest part and is measured by a piece of paper I have in front of me, 13%, which is the third largest single team. Second place is agriculture, but first place is industry/exploitation with 42%. Based on a fine talk given here. I wondered, " What is it? ' A senator is then proselytized by the state's exchange and will with the related tax burden and, therefore, to limit emissions in that team, i.e. Industrial/meditated use. In general, I'd like to ask you why too. In general, a member of the body of elders was able to support a government exchange and to make the tax a part of the effort to solve this problem. I can't see that this is going to happen on the markets alone. You can also point to another group here called transport, not by automobiles 5.2%. The traffic of cars and transportation other than that of cars is 18.2%, which would be the second most advanced joint if we were to take it together and then that is clearly significant. Counts 'em out. Second, is it not important to contribute to the development that, first of all, the infrastructure and second, the technology needed to reduce carbon dioxide emissions when it comes to cars and other transportation? Is that something that's wrong? A senator considers waste of time or money, in view of the fact that these are, though, 13◯18.2%?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u47	A respectable president. As I mentioned in my talk, the release of Iceland was divided into only 4% letters from cars. The highest answer. The secretary of the environment to me is quite folding, as expected from the discussion. I had to ask about this point several times in order to get the correct answer. Hv. A senator may be referring to a table that has a record of accounting for the Kyoto Protocol. Exploitation of the country is not in the Kyoto Protocol. She's out there. Up to one of the climate Commission - it was indeed a proposal and of considerable scientific research by Icelanders - in 2013 that it was permitted to count the recovery of wetlands to their role in reducing emissions. I'm asked here if I don't think industrially. Let's leave these percentages between parts. As I came into my speech, there is always the possibility that there is some particular solution that is a magic solution in the environment. A few years ago, it was the diesel trucks. Then all men were supposed to drive diesel cars. That's what people started to do. It turns out they're polluting more. Now it's the electric cars. Pure electric cars have the highest approval, and they call for action by the State on that subject. I don't think it's going to happen, but I'm afraid the only one who's selling and marketing electric cars, so I'll take an example, to be more involved in the infrastructure in this regard. [[The president calls.]] I don't believe that the solution to this is in any kind of attraction or consumer control or any specific government action in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u48	A respectable president. I briefly reviewed it in a speech yesterday that I think it is a complex solution, and I believe it is a mixture of government exchange and money spending in a way that would attract the public and the economy, if we can say so, to help fix this problem. I wonder what that is. A senator would suggest if recovery of wetlands were all that was needed. A senator would support the problem. If not, then what? For example, today the pressure to repay worth taxes is still more than that of electric cars. There's something I'm holding on to, and I'm wondering if. A senator supports this. I know why. There's a senator against consumer management, and he's also the one standing here in general. In general, I think consumption control is very bad and unpleasant. But it's like with all of that, you can't keep hammering on the same prince's finger all the time, regardless of the circumstances. The conditions we are in today are that we will experience a dramatic climate change that will have a very extensive and serious impact on the earth. I wonder what. A senator believes or doesn't believe it. It would be good to find out if the question is not insulting, and even if so. I wonder what. A senator wants to do it because all I hear is the recovery of wetlands. Okay, don't you think we're going to need state intervention to do that? Don't you have to tax something to do that? Doesn't it somehow have to control you? To what end? A senator willing to take these steps in order to cope with this problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u49	A respectable president. I'm impressed. A senator minimizes my interest in the recovery of wetlands and my interest in producing the best and most correct emissions at any given time. I think that's what matters most. That is why I am very grateful, and I am glad that these figures are referred to in the synoptic proposal presented here. Many have yearned, and I could have asked the same question. I'm not gonna ask why. A senator whether he believes these numbers or whether they will continue to beat their heads against the stone and insist that cars depend on all the emissions in this country. What can be done? We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees that it is desirable to reduce this emissions as much as possible. My point has been that if you agree on this, you need to consider, of course, where that great emissions are. I can answer immediately: No, I'm not in favor of the state's paying, e.g. farmers for shoveling into the ditches they had used for decades paid to clean up. Great companies in Iceland have, for example. During a decade of intensive work on the recovery of wetlands, and more companies are interested in doing so. This is an assignment that many may face. Of course, the public should lay the foundation for such work with information on the facts of this case, but the state should not get in the way of evolution, neither for wetlands, nor for which species of vehicles will prevail here after a few years. The primary role of government and government is to give scientists, who develop things, to develop them, and to find the best solution. [[The president calls.]] I am, for example. there is no agreement that the so - called Ecosystems of electric cars are actually less than fuel cars today. [[Up front.]] Peace is needed for markets to find the solution. If there's a demand for environmental-friendly cars, and I can't hear but that, the market will try to solve it at its best. But I do know for certain that the government will never solve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u50	Mr. President. I thank you for the excellent discussion that has been about this proposal, and I am very grateful to them. Congress officials who are interested in these matters. I feel very sad that there has been little discussion about them before, and of course I would have wanted to see the highest. The Environment Minister will recommend a government action programme to discuss it with us why. Senators. As I said, it is a matter of best agreeing, but, as shown in the earlier discussions, we also have different ideas about how we will achieve the best goals we have already applied, i.e. reduction of greenhouse gas emissions In my talk earlier, I said that it is important to see what the latest knowledge and research have given us and come to us. through a talk to rephrase the matter. paritaprevir Andersen said that recovery of wetlands is an important factor in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It entered the United Nations Climate Committee through Iceland. It's not just a climate issue, it's also a big nature protection issue. What an important factor this is! Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said in opposition to the fact that there must be something else. Yes, there are many factors. We need to look at integrated activities of different sectors. Because I didn't mention it in my history, I think it's better to say here that it's not enough for us to discuss it between us and that we're discussing it with the experts because it's very important that we also get our professional life together in this conversation. Then I am not only witnessing to employers but also to the employee movement, we need to consider together what the job life can do to achieve this goal. People talk about the State, the market, something like that. I say to my share: This case will not be resolved unless we do it on a social foundation where governments must take the lead in promoting employment and the entire public on this project. There has been a significant discussion of the fact that one operation cannot do more damage in another field, and we discussed local pollution and then global pollution. We can discuss the fact that ships have been held across the Arctic Ocean to melt, including some of them. Because of climate change, climate impacts will be reduced by reduction of shipping pathways. At the same time, however, they will contribute largely to the pollution of this delicate ecosystem. Of course we can't watch this case isolated. We need to look at it from a complete approach. That is true of countless factors. We're in Iceland, for example. nothing much to discuss the consequences of our eating habits on a climate that is a major topic in other parts of the world. Perhaps because we live in a relatively small land. We are not so worried about how we consume meat. Then we watch other areas of the world, where rain forests are being cleared in large quantities to grow cattle that end in hamburgers. Carnivores are among the factors to look to. Now I look at it. While there may be less language in Iceland than in any other part of the world, a senator with important eyes. Of course, all of this has its effect. We too can talk about consumption in general - no one can say that we cannot reduce our consumption without reducing our quality of life. I know it myself. All who have children know this overwhelming amount of toys available for children. Let's watch, for example. ... andI played with me as a child and my siblings before, and I'm still pretty good, and I'm still running, working or doing things that are expected to be produced by a high cost of environment and society but destroyed after first use. [[Up front.]] Of course, how we spend it and how we think about it is important. What I stress, however, is that this is a task that will not be solved unless everyone is involved. I think it's important to also mention the job life in that context. All I'm going to know is that some major companies in this country, small companies and medium-sized companies are ready to go to this job with us. Of course, it must be held in charge of the case, so that I finally reiterate what has only been done here, and is irreverent to me that the conclusion will be directed to the entire government. In itself, it would not be unusual for a prime minister in the government to take this matter into his own hands and give it the lead. Of course, this is about transport, industry, environment, and particularly about what we have been discussing about binding, as well as about transport. The matter of agri-aggressor. It's about all these ministers. If we're talking about some kind of wake-up call, so we wonder how we're doing and how we're doing, and we're learning to take a little critical view of what actually brings results, it's also a school system. There are factors involved. I feel that, of course, the priorities of the government are what it spends its money in securing wood and so on. Of course, private people can do that, just as private clients can sell us gasoline today, they should be able to sell us electricity tomorrow, so see, if we look at it from transportation. I think we also have to face the fact that governments cannot avoid spending money on this project. If they do not, the cost will later fall upon the government when it comes to trying to adapt to the changes to come. There is an increasing international debate, what is called the adjustment to the way we are going to deal with climate change. There, the world's governments are already defending extraordinary resources in building dikes and preventing certain consequences. It's also a fact that doesn't concern us in Iceland, but it's known in international context and it was, for example, in Iceland. Many of the discussions at the Paris Climate Summit that the world's governments support more, by government, by public resources, by coal processing, and by oil processing than by renewable energy. Despite signing all kinds of declarations that they want to replace these nonrenewable sources with renewable energy, they are supporting - if we just follow the money, we will see that they are going to the nonrenewable sources of energy. Governments really influence consumer management, and then I'm not just witnessing in Iceland, we'll see that if we watch the world government, which is truly taking control of the situation right now. It controls people toward coal and oil, not to renewable energy when we look at where the money goes. All of this needs to be on tables. I think it's important, as we have discussed, that the facts are on the table. This is one of the facts on the tables today. These energy sources are actually being sold on sale prices because of climate targets and because of the fact that they may not be demand for them for long periods of time. Mr. President. It's a good discussion, and I appreciate it. I really hope that the council can see its way of finishing the suggestion because I think it can be a foundation for a good conversation in the community about how we will achieve these goals that we already have said we will reach.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u51	A respectable president. I would like to propose a synopsis on the National Directive for the continuation of discussions about Iceland's membership in the European Union. The movers are besides me Páll Valur Björnsson, Björt Ólafsdóttir, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, and Róbert Marshall, senators of Bjartir's Future. The suggestion is as follows: The Council concluded that the EC Regulation should be conducted on 29 October 2016 to see if Iceland's Member States are to continue its member countries' activities at the European Union. The following question will be raised in the National Code: ▪ Do you know that Iceland will take up a short talk with the European Union, with the aim of making a contract under which the nation would be signed for approval or innuendo? There would be two, yes, or no. In 2009, the General Assembly of July 16 agreed to commit the government to submit applications for Iceland's involvement in the European Union. At that time, the talks of Iceland and the European Union began and lasted beyond the 2012/2013 annual convention, when effective talks for the 2013 elections were interrupted. After the 2013 elections, this interval continued, after which both members of the board, an independent party and a forwarding party had spoken for the election of having a special national agreement on whether or not to continue. [[For example, consider: It's wrong.]] The following year a recommendation was made at the General Assembly to retract Iceland's application, but it did not make it through the council. Later, a single - sided letter from the highest source was sent. the local foreign secretary to the European Union where the proposal was made or rather stated that the application was no longer valid and raised a very large pack of wolves, strong protests, signatures, etc. In Iceland that decision had not been made at the General Assembly, i.e. From 2009 on, the decision to apply for membership had not been formally withdrawn. Therefore, we make this proposal for a hearing. It is a word - for - word motion that was proposed to the last council but could not be passed on to them, apart from the fact that this is the date, the date mentioned as the date of the election in the fall. We believe that this matter is important. It is evident that the decision to continue following or not to follow Generalis'2009 decision does not seem to be incompetent in Icelandic politics. Therefore, it is important to go to the shameless task of having a special national law on whether or not to continue our discussion. It should be noted that there have been no examples of national pay being held to initiate discussions or to continue discussions with the European Union, although there are many cases of completion of negotiations, whether countries agree to participate or not. This has always been true since 2009, when the General agreed to commit the government to the application of involvement by preordaining that the treaty would be submitted for approval or rejection. We specifically ask the question, "There is no such thing as the existence of it. " I'm not going to procrastinate my case on this proposal, it's going to explain itself. We believe that it is important to determine the continuity and that it is good to have these national regulations by elections. Of course, it is a savings, but it is good to see that after election the General Assembly has clear guidance on this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u52	A respectable president. I am moved to come up here to protest the text of this synoptic arrangement, where it is claimed that the government groups are in the process of the last election, both of them. paritaprevir Proppé, who gave the talk, both groups made a promise to this national law on how to handle member talks during the terms of the election during the election season of the election. I challenge it. A senator who gives an example to support this claim. In the leading of the election, the forward party was very clear in its view of Member States. She wasn't the preferred one. We have strong reasons why we should not continue our discussion, and it was far from us who ever stood in the campaign to make promises of such national pay. In the ensuing of the last election, no such promises were made. I just want to make this point. In case of a moment. One member has an example of something else, and I would like to see them. Another thing to say. In the election itself, it was found that classes that spoke clearly of involvement in the European Union received less than 20% of votes. That may tell a certain story. But I have another question that I wanted to direct to. Senator. Does he think it's good after having made one bellat in Brussels, putting in an application that was inconsistencies with the nation's will - is not absolutely a requirement for the nation's mind to become involved before they are put in the search for a parting contract? For five consecutive years, polls have shown that the nation is not partial. Right now there's 70% resistance, 30% favor. Of the 30% who would agree, they're on notice. [[The president calls.]] Sets it down. A senator is aware of his interest in involvement in the European Union, or is he ready to participate in it at the moment?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u53	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I think all odds that I would be interested in joining the European Union, but of course I'll be aware that the deal that was approved by the European Union would be nice. I will make it clear that when that agreement is established, it will be placed before the nation for approval or for a demonstration. In 2009 the democratic elected General decides to hide the government from applying for involvement in the European Union. It is the same methodology as any other country that has applied for involvement in the European Union. The democratic elected General has not made any other decision before or after the 2013 election. So I think it's important that the decision stands, or that an order is submitted to the Council for something else, so I'll answer that question. Senator. In 2009, when the General decides, as we recall in surveys, a significant will for the entrance of the European Union of Iceland, all surveys have been on the alert to the completion of contracts and to see what they looked like. When I quoted earlier in my promise of national pay, I quoted a discussion that led to the 2013 election, especially the president of the Independence Party, which expressed it as if I recall correctly, that it was the right to keep such national fees in the first part of the term. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u54	Thank you. A senator for his answers, and I rightly understand him so that he did not have an example of advocates of the forwarding election giving promises of such national pay, as it was our clean policy, and in our campaign that he would not let us be talked into making promises of such national law. We are free of such promises and thus have no such promises to be betrayed. No one who chose the advance party was expecting us to represent a national fee - it is important to keep in mind. I'd like to ask who, too. A senator whether he considers the European Union ready to adopt. It is not enough for me to point out that the nation itself is not interested in involvement. Juncker also observed that at least until 2019 he does not think it is the time to continue with the expansion of the relationship. I would find it very interesting to know if it's possible. A senator has some authority that the European Union wishes to continue our discussion. Now it takes two of us to continue such talks that ran into a beach here like what happened. A senator is aware of before the election was formed in 2013. They were stranded. Only 11 of 33 chapters had been completed, and the fishing and agricultural section had not been opened. Icelandic negotiators were not prepared to give discounts of the warnings made at the Icelandic Parliament. Whatever the case, how can you continue discussions that have crossed over? If the decision of the Constitution is equal, 50:50, half are they willing to continue their talks, the other half doesn't like it, are they bound by such a vague guide or are they bound by their convictions?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u55	A respectable president. There were a lot of questions, but I'll try to answer them as most. As a general rule, national laws are a guide for members of Congress. I would say that this is, of course, a manual. I would again be surprised that the council would not follow that principle, and it has, indeed, been very special when it has not been done, as it has been. When it comes to a national bill for the Constitution. When the talks were stopped at the beginning of 2013, it was a one - sided decision by the government of the United States. The talks did not sail on the beach. It was one - sided decision by the government of the United States to put them on ice until 2013. A new government that accepted 2013 chose to keep them on ice. In this ideal period, the government has not submitted to and approved in the General decision to reverse Generalis's decision from 2009 to initiate a business discussion with the European Union. National Parliament and the government of all EU member countries, outside Croatia, who became involved after Iceland applied for membership in 2009, agreed to have a conversation with Iceland about involvement in the European Union. Of course, these approvals have not been retracted, so I have nothing to do with it except that the European Union and State want to continue and complete affairs with Iceland are the same as before.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u56	A respectable president. I just want to introduce to you the role of national agreements. As time goes by, I myself have less and less faith in a consultant national pay because I no longer find it strange, and it is no longer surprising that politicians simply ignore the general public no matter how clear he is. It's not only because of my experience as a citizen in this country or after watching politics but also because of my presence at the General Assembly, especially after the election. True, after all, there can always be debate about what they meant, but it was as naive as it now proved to be, before the 2013 elections that the forward party and the Independence Party paid to settle this matter. That was my understanding, perhaps he was wrong, but it was certainly my understanding and many others. That is why the words were interpreted that way, that is because people understood them that way. No matter what they say, it remains. In view of the fact that there seems to be little limit to what politicians are willing to do, no matter how clear their national will, I feel that it is increasingly important to make decisions made in a national law of binding. I'll give you the Icesave case. They were law-employers. It was directly part of the legal process that the case should go to national payment because the Republic's president refused to sign the law. So when the nation rejected them, they simply weren't the laws of the land no matter what the politicians thought of them, that was just what happened. It's inevitable binding. I believe that such a suggestion would be better if it included a task for a minister who was bound to the national approval of the national law so that it would have some real effect. My question is, "Is there a problem?" A senator prepared to turn the proposal into that direction if the opportunity arises?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u57	A respectable president. Yes, this senator would be quite prepared to change the suggestion so that it would be binding. I don't think there's any question that evolution will be the fact that we're seeing other decisions on the nation and they'll be potentially binding. But I don't want to argue with what. A member of the council believes that the advice of a national law is meaningless. I absolutely refuse to agree that it can ever be accepted that politicians or the Generals, political parties, ignore the will that is expressed by national pay or votes, without making a great deal of evidence, go backwards. That's a serious matter to me. What I think may be the basis for the greatest enemy celebration and most fermentation, the most protest we've seen in recent years, is just that the public has experienced that politics, politicians are not in harmony with their decisions. It is in the very spirit this proposal is presented. It is proposed to drive the politics of Iceland. The Generals pressure their government to comply with the will of General Generalis, who was approved here on July 16, 2009. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a clear answer at the beginning of his answer. I agree with what. A senator said that it is not acceptable to ignore the common people's will by members of Congress or politicians. The problem is, they just do it, no matter how unhappy a man has it, and no matter how miserable the public is, we know that here was an attempt to break up these talks from the highest level. a foreign minister in his day despite the protests, despite the proposal to make this national pay and despite the evidence that the nation would eventually reject entry into the EU, at any rate under the circumstances it was then inexorable, at least according to surveys. Then it would have been a perfect opportunity to take this case out forever, if you put your trust in the discussion that I don't think they'll do when it comes to national pay, i.e. If it's binding. The reason I feel that these things are binding is because politics is not acceptable to me as they are. I was born in 1980. All my life, people have complained that politicians aren't doing anything, and as soon as the election is over, all is betrayed. It's a saying that's always been there. Whether it is true or not, I don't like it because it reduces belief in politics. The problem, however, is that this lack of belief is, in large measure, legitimate. This is because politicians can simply ignore national will and do it. Whether we like it or not is the case. Of course, the freedom of the council is in the Republic's constitution, which will not be embellished with any suggestion. More important, I feel that such suggestions have direct legal consequences, the consequences of the decision made by the nation itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u59	A respectable president. I have much to say in a talk. That's why I believe that changes in Iceland's constitution, national and extracurricular records, will be agreed as soon as possible and will become as clear as ever. I don't want any less trouble, though. A senator, although he may be a bit pessimistic about politics and politics with the common people, is this because we are looking forward to the hurrying of elections. It is instigated by the government, trust in the government had become so small that it could not have seen anything more than to seek a renewed commission in elections before the election season was over. I'd like to mean that this is not inextricably related and that this government's efforts to fulfill its promises, or that a large part of the public at least experienced as a promise, to maintain national pay for continuation of discussions and efforts to withdraw the application without making the decision for the General Parliament first. In many respects, I think that the breakdown of trust that led to the complete distrust that has led to our having an election this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u60	A respectable president. We will discuss the future proposals of Birts, all members of that category, on the National Court for continuation of discussions, or as they say: Taking up the discussion with the European Union, with the aim of making a covenant under contract for approval or innuendo. I come up to make some comments to this proposal. I will also discuss in my speech a little about the discussions that were just ahead, as men discussed the pros and faults of counseling national agreements, on which I also have opinions. First, let's get to this council arrangement. As I came into the matter of a transporter, there is no indication that the European Union is interested in the process of filming. It is strange to place in national law something that is beyond our authority as senators to follow through. Usually the nation is offered a choice in national pay. The attitude of the Swiss to the adviser of national agreements is that they are a people's coven. Swiss people use binding national law checks. The people, voters in Switzerland, have been responsible for calling out for their affairs, both of them have the initiative and also the right to make a case for national action. It is then binding national law. In the opinion of those who have discussed this, the problem with the adviser of national regulations is the danger of being used for that purpose, almost a people's cash. They are not binding, they raise countless questions, as noted earlier as to whether they are bound by this or not, or if they are to follow their own convictions, what they should do if the decision of the National Order is not very decisive; the nation is almost equal to any conflict on what to do. What, then, is the role and responsibility of the duly appointed representative of the council and his duty to the constitution to conform to his convictions and promises made to his voters? I have to say for myself that I was able to get into this council in order to say, "I'm opposed to involvement in the European Union." I'll never push any button other than the one who lowers the risk of us becoming members of the European Union. That's for sure. It is my duty to my voters. I would never have said that I would fight here for a national fee to continue a discussion that the previous government had stopped without asking a king or a priest. And here we are accused of stopping them without asking a king or a priest. There's supposed to be some way. But governments that applied directly stopped them. Hv. A traveller spoke very strongly about the next government, which directly opposed membership and then stopped the business talks that had run into the coast, indeed, as discussed in the reports on the subject and the progress of these discussions. They cost a tremendous amount of effort in the Icelandic management system at a time when we needed the government to deal with the wonderful problems we had here. It was put on this picnic with the lovely promise that it would take a short time, 18 months, and then we could be members of the EU, the mild mother who would save all things, the euro would snap everything away and the mild Merkel would save us -- as if she had not saved the Greeks. Now we have seen the rock - mass of the trident's 20's. Now we have seen that the euro is not the solution, it is now known as the largest economic problem in Europe. The single currency alliance is the economic problem. Very respected economists have written about this careful article that I think people have to sort of look at. This is no longer the same European Union as was applied for 2009. Only on that basis is all the reasons for us to continue our discussions. It takes at least to review fully how the European Union is today. In what way has this proved to be a challenge? It's not a growing relationship anymore, it's a breakdown, and the British are on their way out. Let me just mention that this is a very important country in our business, i.e. The British. I was just looking at it just moments ago that our whole move to Britain is as great as any of our exports to Germany and Spain combined. It's a really big business. This means that if there has been any business reason to be in the European Union, that cause has been reduced by two huge countries. I have to say, there is nothing to take up with the EU, which has become a whole other EU. Nor can such a national fee be held on October 29, 2016, when the law states that there is a need for three months to be discussed, so that the nation can get a hearing. The law is not without reason. It's called here that there's supposed to be a bill that's going to change that law. There is a reason why the nation needs three months to discuss the matter. In Switzerland, people spend much longer than three months discussing the general content of national regulations, which are certainly binding. However, doing so by means of some shorter baptism cannot be done. All factors have changed completely. I'd like to mention that in the end of this application, which has been stopped and is willing to be restarted, there were high expectations that permanent releases could be obtained. It turns out it's not possible. There are temporary exceptions, but there is a need to adapt to the rules of the Union that are indiscriminate. They held on to the illusion that we could avoid all our waters from the European seas, that could continue our 200 miles, and all the stocks that swim there. Then there were men in the world who might just be local strains. We have been given tens of billions of dollars from collapse. It sure was lucky. But if we had been members in the European Union, all that mackerel would have been in Scotland, Ireland, and the European Union. We'd be in a much worse position. I think they'll figure it out. What I'm wondering is, What is it in this stuff that tourists don't realize? What cones are they trying to strike by making a costly poll that is not even binding for members of Congress? For a nation in which 70% of the nation declares that they do not want to enter this relationship. During the last five years, there have been between 60 and 470 percent of those who take sides, some who are unsure, but I'm just talking about those who take sides, opposed to being involved in this relationship. We have had plenty of time to get to know the relationship well. It may well be understood that here, men in some temporary madness and nervousness during the collapse were led to believe that the European Union was a solution to some problem, but it certainly cannot be said anymore. The longest economic rescue action of all time is Greece. Scary. 50% of the old folks don't get their meds. There are no oncology there. In fact, there is no currency in some rural villages. They use a new currency because there are no euros in the village. The stories you hear from Greece are terrible. They're selling the sunsets. Privately, they're selling them. I'm sure it's someone's dream, but I don't think it's the ones who make this council proposal. I'm asking men to open their eyes. It's true, it's always nice to speak for national pay, but I want them to be binding. I spoke here and fought for the Icezave contracts to be shot at the nation. It was a binding national agreement. I think we should enact the Constitution regulations that the nation has the right to call for national laws on the subject. I support it, and I also support her taking the initiative. I'm sorry if this council doesn't finish these important matters. But I don't believe that members of Congress are making a comeback by having polls among the population that cost 250 million. If we are to ask the people a question, let us ask them: " Is it possible for you to be involved in the European Union, yes, or no? If people don't like it, it's nothing but a bellat. What nation is involved in an alliance that they do not want to join?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u61	A respectable president. Only more fully into this fine discussion of binding national pay and advice of national law. Hv. A senator briefly admitted that it would not be certain that the European Union wanted to continue the discussion. And then I heard why. A senator complains that they, i.e. The forward group, or the management party, would be accused of some sort. Everybody knows that. At the time, a minister of the State made an attempt to end this, and it sounded in the media that it was now over, etc. He did it. There's nothing to argue about. [[For example, consider: We had stopped talking.]] Well, the highest. At any rate, a minister saw reason to send this letter, explaining in the media that this was the end of the case and that this action would have been a factor. That was perfectly clear. And again: There's nothing to argue about. That's what happened, everybody saw it. But far from it, I'd like to ask why. A senator would consider it best to complete this matter simply by binding national law, where this will be clear, and then the matter will be salted up, probably until the situation changes again. Because it keeps being bitter bones. I know why. A senator is fully convinced of his stand, and this, of course, was a fine pay, and it was also some years ago, probably on the grounds of those days. But I think it's going to remain in our discussion, it's going to be a matter of elections. It's not time to settle the matter and accept a synonym that covers the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs to adopt and see how it ends? Are the terms of the Parliamentary decree that the nation must agree with it as well and hence the terms of the approval of the Allied Council, vote for it, and finish it? It's not what. A senator convinced that the nation would say no?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u62	A respectable president. The question directed to me is, would it not be good to settle the matter once and for all, for the decades to come? [[Up front.]] In fact, the British even walked in the European Union. But the question was not settled. A nation's independence and sovereignty are never resolved. While we are a sovereign and an independent nation, a part of the country will always say: perhaps it would be better to be part of a larger example, to be part of some larger sovereignty, to join in this new military alliance that the European Union is becoming. During an interview with Die Welt, Juncker makes it clear that it would be good to have an army in order to stand up only to the hair of the Russians. This is actually on the BBC web, you can look it up. In 2015 he spoke of a lot of good if it was a European army. This is the spirit of the leaders in this regard. We will not be able to influence this relationship's policies as the smallest member of the Member State. Britain, who is much bigger than we can ever decide to stop because they have no influence. That's why they're leaving the European Union. That should be an important message for us. I think that the question of national sovereignty and independence will never be settled as long as there is a political alliance that is inviting the sovereign and independent nations to join in. That's what's causing it. If no one was inviting us in, there would be no group here, no one here is applying for entry into the United States or China or Russia. It may be, but it will always be discussed. [[Up front.]] I'm ready for it. But as long as it is, I will fight against our surrender of national sovereignty and independence.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u63	A respectable president. I can't disagree. A senator who will never conclude the discussion of national independence and sovereignty and all that. But we're partners with more organizations than with the EEA. We are, for example. in WTO. We are part of a national organization. However, it is not always a matter of coming up again and again either to leave that organization or to join some new one. Not over and over. Not for years. Not that it represents a political debate for years. This case, especially the EU, differs from e.g. The EEA I would now think there's a lot of conflict between men, is all the time in the discussion. It is constantly being wondered what if these chapters were to be opened and what if the other or the other person argues about what words to use for this, adaptability, or what to do. It is something that we may later reason. I can say little more than that I disagree with the conclusion. Hence, the senator that because the discussion is never finished, it is not advisable to keep national pay, there is no reason to maintain a binding national law on the matter in order to settle it. No matter what. A senator enters, turns the main issue to me about self - determination, something I believe to be true of. A candidate in common should consider the basics of human society, the personal rights of an individual and a group of all sizes and types. That's exactly why I think this case belongs in binding national pay, so that voters themselves can decide what to do, and we can start talking about some other solutions that I think are absolutely time for us to discuss as well, considering that the nation would say no to the EU. I suppose that's what. A senator believes that this would be so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u64	A respectable president. Governments received four years to complete agreements with the European Union. They thought it would take 18 months, but they had a perfect period to do this, and this government gave up. The European Union surrendered. The talks ran out. It is the conclusion of the Economic Institute of Economics that published this. I believe that conclusion. A foreign press committee where I sit also arrived with a number of delegates who described this process and why could not have been finished. It doesn't matter if we keep binding or not binding national pay, it can't be finished. Not with the conditions we set. These 30% who still wish to walk in the European Union set conditions for their interest. The other 70% just don't want to walk in. But those of the 30% who want to enter do so on conditions that allow us to keep on certain important things that are resource, marine soil, to protect our agriculture, not to have military service in the European Union, and this, all kinds of conditions. A lot of this may not be possible. I'll put, for example. That's why we don't have to record the euro. That's not an option. Today, it is just not an option to join the European Union, but it is not an option. The BlackBerry is no exception. Danes are an exception, the British were. Sweden does not have such an exception and not Polish, they just pull their feet, they avoid as much as they may be able to enter the economic problem that the euro is. So I say, before you continue with any memberal application, let's say that it's the meaning, that they really wanted to re-examine the European Union, it's anything but here in 2009. I'd say, it's early. I don't think we should start to ask this question to the nation, and most of all, take a short time to discuss the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u65	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to hear what you have to say. A senator is sure that he is responsible for the disgustingness of the European Union and he does not want Iceland to enter it at all. [[Up front.]] I allow myself to disagree deeply. Senator. But there's this conflict, and this different vision of the European Union and possible involvement in Iceland into the European Union, which continues in the discussion, which does not die in the discussion. That is why we are suggesting that these negotiations be continued, brought to the conclusion that we can see exactly what a contract was offered to make a decision about him. Still, mostly I wanted to ask why. A senator, because he has spoken extensively about changing the European Union. True, the situation in Europe has changed. But on the basis of the European Union, treaties, and rules, there is no change from 2009 to the fact that Croatia has entered. Hv. A senator speaks of a European army. It's clear that that army doesn't exist. Europe is not a military alliance, but it has, on the contrary, marked by the decades of the European Union's being at an unusually long period of peace in Europe or the European Union. But I wanted to ask you what. A senator's main concern is whether he feels that his attitude against involvement in the European Union is so true that it is stronger than the approval of the Allied Generalis, who agreed in 2009 to apply for membership and to lead to completion of business talks. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óttar of Proppér for bringing this question. But I don't want to thank you for men making me opinions or words. I haven't said that the European Union is some creepy thing or something like that. I have no such word. I said there was a word that the currency alliance is a financial problem. I've been talking about the different conditions. I've said many times that it does not serve Iceland's interests to be a member of the Union. It may well serve the interests of some other nations that are closer to the main points of the land. It may well be. I've never said it's bad in that sense. I've just pointed to and given reasons and examined very carefully from many sides of the years, and my conclusion has been unchanged, uncut, and I see that the obeisance of the people, 70% of the people, or of those taking sides, is on the same line and doesn't feel that their interests are served by the management department going on a very long and heavy process of leading to the smell of some bellate which will then only lead to this rejection, just as has happened in Norway twice. In Norway, however, something could be negotiated. This is no longer possible after the Eastern European Union entered. As soon as the introduction and enlargement began in the European Union, the approach and enlargement process changed so that the European Union could not agree with the European Union's principles. It is impossible for humans to negotiate with an army. I am fully aware that there is no army there today. There are many armies in the countries. There are several countries. However, more and more are being said to cooperate with these armies, and this is to increase EU strength. I'm surprised if I did. A senator does not recognize this discussion. There are many instigators of this relationship who speak of the need to establish a military alliance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u67	A respectable president. I am fully aware that there are many ideas about how the European Union should develop and much has been said there. Such meditation does not change the relationship. Hv. A senator spoke of it earlier and has used the word bellat more than once. Which I find rather dull with formal approval of the Generals and a formal process that has taken place in all European states and has been adopted and followed by a highly stable procol, application procedure and contract process that all nations who have entered the European Union since the establishments have passed through it. In many cases the process has begun without realizing it, or even realizing that it has been realized, that the nation's majority will was not before negotiations had ended. I just want to say that some testing of the popularity of a vague party is not necessarily best, not necessarily the whole story. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because he believes that Iceland's application and application procedure should be completed, what he thinks is the best way to do it, or whether he doesn't believe that the 2009 Generals' approval is still valid. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u68	A respectable president. It is clear that Congress laws bind not future governments but only those who sit. The current government is free of the Parliamentary decree referred to in connection with the Memberal application. She was entitled to cancel the application. And it is shameless of the European Union if it is understanding that this has not been permanently terminated. That they have been placed on ice or something until the favorier government comes back and continues their discussion. I'd like that to be rough, very rough, in the European Union and Iceland. [[Up front.]] Here was a democratically elected government that decided to abide by the affairs and authority given to them by their voters. That's very clear to me. But we agree on how boring it is to have a bellat in Brussels, we agree that it's pathetic. Then I ask the carriers to withdraw it until here is a predominant interest in involvement in the European Union. Let's do a job first, let's start at the beginning. Let us realize that the majority of the people do not want to become involved, and they have come to know the relationship quite well and closely. Let us first introduce the European Union as it is, work at identifying what it is. And then, if she's interested, to open up a discussion, of course. But there is no interest in it now. Let us not spend hundreds of millions more. This poll, known as the legislators of the U.S. U.S. National Reunion, is costing 200 to 300 million. It will cost hundreds of millions, if not billions, to finish this or to finish it, which I really don't think is possible. Because in the season, it's not as if these are any contracts, we need to meet or show the ability to meet these requirements. And it takes investments that would be better off putting into our welfare system, our infrastructure, and other things that we really can fix. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u69	A respectable president. First, I'm going to say that I like this suggestion that it raises an interesting discussion about the nature of national agreements. and surely only the European Union has been introduced materially. First, I want to mention what I've said in reply, and I have an opinion that is growing ever stronger in me, which is that national pay is supposed to be binding and should not be called national pay. [[Hear, hear.]] I want to thank you. A senator who gave the case for taking the opportunity to change the proposal so that the vote will be binding. I would imagine the suggestion to hide the highest. Minister of State to resume business negotiations or, however it might be carefully legalized, but at any rate, it would be proposed to a standard body of Congress proposals, such as we committed here very regularly unless the approval of the General Assembly was subject to the people's approval on national terms. Then, according to the decision of a national law, the synod would accept it, which in fact, does not seem to be the case, unfortunately, regardless of these changes. Another thing I want to criticize about this suggestion is that. 2.m. Reykv.. n. came in briefly, but that's the time limit. However, changing them is a rather simple change in my opinion, no matter what. There's an election in Iceland all the time. Normally, except for this October, there is an election of some kind in Iceland in three out of four years, i.e. General elections, district elections, and then elections. I'm not worried about these costs, except that in the context of the budget and the importance of democracy, there are 250,300 million simply not high numbers. I know a lot of people can be shocked if they look at their own budget, but we're talking about budgets. In Iceland's budget, we can take it easy to increase the number of democracys in Iceland, not just in this case, but in general. I'd like to point out for the Swiss, like a sledgehammer. 2.m. Reykv.. n. mention often, make pay four times a year. That's just specific dates where you go and vote all over the money. You don't know that Switzerland is a steaming ruins or in baloney poverty because of spending all its money on national pay. It's not like that. In fact, I always like to mention that Switzerland has gone beyond anyone here for administrative reasons. There is a fixed number of voters who need to be asked for national payment, not a percentage or a percentage of voters, so as the nation grows, the percentage of voters who need to be forced into a national fee is reduced by the number of voters. As a result, they gradually increase in frequency over time. And despite being critical of Switzerland's lack of election participation, we're talking about Switzerland. Not Somalia, not Argentina, but Switzerland, one of the most successful states in human history, I dare assert, and indeed economic. Now I realize how little time I have here. I have felt that from the beginning this process would have benefited from taking a so - called double national law, i.e. That it had been a national agreement on the synopsis at the beginning, No. 1st of the 137th Congress, and then again when the contract had already happened. Even if this does not occur, I would say that it is really one of the European Union's weaknesses. The public's explanation there and elsewhere is that democracies exist. Whether it's legal or not, at least the perception is that, and I think it's important to take action. I think we could have set a very good example by taking a double national fee. At least I'm telling you that we were somewhere else in the conversation if it had been so. We wouldn't be creeping on it here. It would be clearer to know what the guidance was, to question legal matters, and also to think that it would have affected the discussion itself because during the application procedure there was debate over this at a church hall and in other parts of the community, naturally, because legal matters were not as clear as they could have been. I'm gonna talk about Bgreit. No matter how I feel about that conclusion, I think that the decision in Britain's consulting national law to divorce the European Union reflects public perception that it has not been asked detailed enough and that it has not been properly informed from the beginning about what this phenomenon is, the European Union, the benefits and the faults. Of course, the debate there was, in many ways completely out there, walking and going on in politics and all that but I still don't think it just reflects that the voters in Britain have acted on the wrong evidence, I also think that part of the legitimate public sense is involved. There is a tendency among politicians in the European Union, as well as elsewhere, not to be particularly interested in what the public feels, as long as the political goal is achieved. Of course, it is a human flaw that will always be reflected in politics, so I find it so important that such decisions in a national law are binding. I think it's very basic. As for the European Union materially, so that I spend a few minutes in it, I have said most of the time, although I have to change my mind, from day to day, that I could not make up my mind whether I was in favor because Iceland became a member of the European Union until negotiations were over. If they're on the beach, they're on the beach. Well, that's just the conclusion. However, two chapters were to be opened, agrienvironment, and aquaculture were yet to be opened. The key chapters. It is impossible to talk about what could have been and what could not have been. It always forgets that the European Union is in an ongoing shape and development. What if the European Union had not taken any of this into account after we opened the chapters and discussed them? Okay, then that would have been the result. All right, I meant, a respectable president. Beg your pardon in English or what language that was. Of course, with regard to the euro there are always pros and cons. You can always find a time period in which certain means of money are good and some means of money are bad. Right now, in Iceland, e.g. It's very nice to be borrowing in discriminatory. The problems are so low that the load of payment is much lower than the loan of unscrupulous. Right now. But if you're taking over the 2008-2010, chai, not that much. Then there were other circumstances. It's just the same with the euro or any currency. The European has specific strengths that are primarily in the size of the economy. It has certain weaknesses, including the inflexibleness associated with it. It is a little difficult to explain to people who believe that some specific means of money are simply good or simply bad that they are always both. These are tools that always have strengths and defects. The euro is no exception. Now I might learn men, but I'm going into what mistakes have been made on the film of the euro. It remains to be the largest currency in a population of 500 million people called the European Union. This is an enormous economy. It's still there. There's certainly trouble, but there's still trouble. I don't believe in these prophecies of doom on the European Union. I don't believe in them, even if they don't have one kingdom. They might also argue that there is a fine example. Then people in the future can at least assuming that there is a realistic possibility, that it is possible for a state to leave the relationship, and that there must be some plan on how it should be handled. Then it could just come back. Many people find it ridiculous to change their mind all the time. Not me. As a matter of fact, I'm sure you do. Most important, I want to push only on what is often said about these discussions, that they are adaptable discussions. Yet, I do not recall a single council case that we have taken care of at the council, which was designed to undo all the legal damage that the EU application should have brought to us. Not a word. However, we were today voting on two EEA matters. There the senators elected the forward party and the Independence Party voted with the EEA case, an adaptation case. These are all adaptation terms because the EEA means bioavailability against the introduction of these issues. I'd like to go to the final sanctuaries to quote a review from the Iceland Business Council of one council today. It says, by permission of the President: It should be in accordance with national legislation in the European Economic Area, where possible. This is not because business has a problem with Iceland, wants to burn the flag, and change national singing, but because it's wise to have consistent rules. Now I'd like to extend the speech, a respectable president, but I'd like to respect the clock this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u70	As usual, I suppose.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u71	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. Although not many have. It has been very lively for members of the Parliament and may well illustrate what the European Union is, what it means, what it has to say about Icelandic politics, Icelandic reality. The fact is, the European Union is the largest national alliance of our world and has developed very much in the decades of its existence. The decision of the British, like the whale. A senator pointed to earlier, at the advice of a national law to disseminate the European Union to the so-called Bgret election, is still another development in the European Union's development process. The European Union is the main focus of the four freedoms, a joint market of 500 million people in nearly thirty countries today. This four freedoms have been desirable to the Icelanders. Icelanders entered this relationship to a large extent with the EEA agreement, and our general pleasure has been quite good at having this access to the market. Although it is certainly a little strange that we take up a bit of regulations and legislation that we certainly adopt from the European Union through the EEA Convention and the EEA adaptation here, there is a great deal of that legislation, especially when it comes to environmental, health, consumers, etc., a very welcome addition to Icelandic legislation and, in fact, has made it possible for us to have much more perfect legislation than we should easily develop alone. The debate on the Bfenit election in Britain and the decision that surprised many British people to take, to leave the European Union, may have shown that they have more faith in the European Union as a stability tool than they could keep from a general discussion. Of course, doubts about the European Union have been very loud in the discussion, especially since the 2008 economic breakdown, especially the economic crisis in Greece and the European problem in those years. Yet, the British decision to report the European Union in general is made as an uncertain decision, that Britain is sailing into an uncertain period. This decision has had a very negative effect on the British pound gangs and has led rather to disaster than the other. It is quite remarkable to experience it even in Iceland, where surveys have questioned whether we should walk in the European Union and not know exactly what the contract looks like. In fact, the conversation about Baltrexit has been that we are sailing into more uncertainty times in Europe and our neighborhood than we are in the rest of the world. I think that's an indication of what we really feel about the European Union. And like a cot. Tenth. n.. The euro, which is the currency of many hundreds of millions of people, has been a community, in spite of everything being strong and stable but most currency in the world in the past 2008, although it has certainly gone through a number of bad times. I would like to use the last few minutes of my talk to discuss what this proposal is for the missionaries to suggest that this national agreement be held along the total election of October 29th. Sure, I'll say the word with the bang. Congress officials who have spoken that national pay is a short notice. This would especially be a short notice on a national law on a subject that would not have been very well - known and would not be well - known in any Icelandic community. However, it seems that the applicant countries have an excellent idea of the European Union and the European Union as well as what to do with their negotiations for four years. The reason that October 29 is stated in the motion is that it is the date that has been in the debate before elections this fall. It is specifically stated in the report to change the date, since it is certainly not yet fixed, this proposal will be adjusted accordingly. It is the thought of linking this national fee with the General elections. Not only is it practical to use the trip, as it were, to choose this matter as soon as we enter an election where a large proportion of the people will vote, but also to associate it with elections rather than with other elections. I think it is important that the decision to make this national vote, which is a continuation of talks determined by the Generals' approval, be made at elections to be guided by the new Council, which will be met after the election. That's why we make that suggestion. She's not submitted for the first time now. It is actually correct, except for the date, repetition of a proposal submitted to the last legislation, then 626th case, but it did not succeed. It was then assumed that the national vote would take place along the election this summer, but now the next election is scheduled October 29th, so we make the suggestion and set that date. I repeat, if this was a new matter that would require a more serious and extensive presentation with the nation, I could certainly agree that this was a short notice than where this is one of the biggest cases in Icelandic discussion at least Since 2009, I believe the Icelandic voter can be trusted to take a stand on the question: Do you want Iceland to take up a few interviews with the European Union with the aim of making a contract under which the nation would be signed for approval or inconsistencies, yes or no? I think the Icelandic voters can be trusted to form an opinion of that question in the two months expected up to the 29th October election. I've finished my case, thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u72	A respectable president. I recommend a judicial hearing on the involvement of the European NASA of NASA. Transporters are along with the people here. The members of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Páll Valur Björnsson, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir Hjörvar, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Róbert Marshall, Össur Skarphéðinsson, Otttir Proppé, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Savarsdótir, Árnason of the Yearnas, and Svandís Svavarsdóttir. The proposal is simple, materially, with the permission of a president: ▪ The General concludes to hide the minister of foreign affairs to apply for Iceland's involvement in the European NASA of Astronomy. The European Space Agency, in the European Space Age Age, called the ESA, was started in 1975 and now numbered in 22 Member States. All the North countries are members of the ESA, except Iceland. The aim of ESAs is to cooperate with the European Union field in space and technology. ESAs are an independent organisation but closely cooperate with the European Union on space and technology frameworks. Each Member State has a representative of the ESA's Council and has one vote, regardless of the size and budget of the relevant state. The Agency's main tasks include: The implementation and implementation of long-term policy in space science and proposals for the common objective of Member States in space science as well as in other international institutions. ESAs also address the coordination of the European Space Management Plan and the proposed Member States, mainly with regard to the development of satellite equipment. The work of the Agency, however, is about earth's research, and its focus is not only in space science but also in various areas that primarily affect the earth, such as meteorology, biology, and geology. Studies in physics, chemistry, mathematics, computer science, and so on are also emphasized. There is a great need for governments to cross employment policy in Iceland with new growth tools, where well - educated workers are fully useful. Educated people move abroad and become involved in Iceland's ESA involvement in promoting job opportunities in the field of technology and science at home. The proposal includes an increase in financial expenses, but the increase should come back in the form of projects that will then be supported by national research, as well as permanent access to new education and employment opportunities. Iceland's Member States that the European NASA of Astronomy would create a more broad range of employment opportunities and would make it easier for academically educated people to use their expertise here, to themselves, and to benefit the whole nation. Likely, the major projects involved in Iceland's membership would be its first software project. The Icelandic software industry is established, developed, and progressive and should have all the opportunities to handle such projects. One of the main challenges is likely to be that Icelandic experts see more and more opportunities abroad, but the suggestion is intended to correct and to reverse that trend. However, Member States themselves decide which special areas they prefer to participate in. It may then be expected that Iceland's involvement with the European Space Agency would contribute to the growing interest of children and young people in the real world as an exciting subject for the future. Although the proposal may quickly appear to be radical, the movers in Iceland believe that the European NASA of NASA normalizes the continuation of the scientific work that has already been built up in Iceland. Icelandic scientists are already using data from the European NASA of NASA, including the U.S.A. the study of earthquakes and weather patterns. Iceland is in the early research of the earth's magnetic field and so far, scientists come from the Agency to test devices, such as the U.S.A. used in a satellite. Member States have a common obligation to support about one third of the activities of the Agency, which include optional projects funded by Member States. In each Member State, it is set up in which optional tasks are involved and, therefore, budgets vary according to the state's decision to participate. Instead, the Agency invests in Member States through the implementation of projects that promote research and innovation, making the budget available by the Member State. While the Agency is not a part of the European Union, there is a high and close cooperation between it and about 22% of the annual budget for the Agency comes from the European Union. The proposed package leaflet can help you to understand the potential budget based on Iceland's national production in 2015 as compared to several Member States and the proportion of national production produced by the countries within the same year. To encourage the audience to understand that document, I encourage them to be informed about the cost. Besides all of this, though it is not a direct goal to fix it, it is not possible for Icelandic citizens today to become astronauts. It is impossible for an Icelandic citizen to become an astronaut unless he gains citizenship in a country that is part of an institution such as ESA, the European Space Institute of NASA, or to get an American citizen's right to take part in the work of NASA. True, civilians can share in various activities, but we are not members of the ESA yet. But the good news is that in Iceland, the European Space Agency would allow Icelanders to become astronauts, at least in the prince's hand. The bad news is that there are no vacancies at this time and, in fact, only three times in the history of the Agency, it has been a project to collect new space missions, so it is not in itself something that we were about to jump into, but I liked to mention this, because I just feel sad that an Icelandic citizen could never become an astronaut. I think it's very boring. But as I'm saying, it's not the aim of the proposal to fix it in itself. It's mainly to promote scientific activity, to get here to a country of scientific projects that Iceland has knowledge to deal with. The problem is that our experts often go to other countries looking for opportunities there. And while at first glance the proposal may seem radical, as noted earlier, the Agency is thought that many nations will be able to share in such projects. The idea does not include cutting off a Reykjavík airport and building a launch pad, as someone might think of a sense of humor, but it is about doing small companies, such as Iceland, allowing them to participate in these important studies without having all the infrastructure that e.g. The United States has a mission of its own. It would be a preposterous idea to do such a thing in Iceland, as is perfectly obvious. Furthermore, when it comes to a work of science that already exists in Iceland, capitalism is often lacking. In fact, I made a comment earlier today that it was already a science job that simply got more money and more staff. But I'd like to mean that this proposal, would be accepted, would make it easier, for the aim is to increase scientific activity, but not at all to reduce it, not in any scientific field, as the practice in Europe's Space Research Institute is as good as any or almost all sciences, such as physics, chemistry, mathematics, computer science, and stuff that Iceland is good for. And by the way, it has been found that Icelanders are good at astronomy. Therefore, we have every reason to enter this institution, despite its name. I'm not going to extend my case at this point. I'm looking forward to seeing how the discussion will be and hoping that, in time, people will see that this is normal, modest, and really a step toward continuing scientific and high - tech industry in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u73	A respectable president. I'm one of the partners at the proposal, so maybe it's not surprising that I'm being recommended. Thank you. Tenth. Reykv.. n. for excellent progress. I agree with what. A senator participating in international projects, such as the European Space Agency, may be a great source of encouragement for Icelandic science and technology. I remember participating in a joint European project like the MEDIA program one of the basics of the film and television industry that Iceland has developed in a relatively short period of time, so I celebrate this idea. I wanted to ask you what. A senator whether he has developed ideas about how the involvement in Iceland in the U.S.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u74	A respectable president. I'm trying to get into the habit of not making things that I'm not in a good position to decide, despite being a senator. But I imagine that the institutions that will have anything to do with this will probably all the colleges, possibly all, possibly at least, certainly those large ones in Reykjavík and Akureyri. There's a business that I think would profit from all of this. So is Rannis, and I'm sure there's a lot of companies. This is, of course, a lineup that I just don't know clearly. You can think of the Weather Service and various such institutions, which are science, such as software, or something like the same but also the articles about nature. Some say that Iceland is simply a volcano. You can look at it that way, I think. There's a lot of volcano activity here. We have frequent earthquakes, and there's a lot worth investigating in Iceland. As shown in the report, scientists from European NASA come here to test systems for conditions in Iceland. I think there are more institutions than I know in any way that would come to this, at least in a discussion or in a similar way. This is something that I would much rather trust experts to decide, but I would expect it to be a wealth of consultations on what needs to be done. Of course, there is always a competition for funding, and as I did only earlier, there are some scientific work in Iceland that is already subsidized. Not to be overlooked. It's important to take it into account. But as I said, the idea of increasing is not to reduce scientific activity.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u75	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in nature protection law. Some might say that this is a very small matter because it is very short, but it is a big deal. It is so short that I can read it without taking much time from the council. That's what it sounds like, a respectable president: After 1st mg. 17th par. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: Anyone passing through the highlands and highways of the country is forbidden to dispose of waste in public areas except in a container. This is a violation of the penalty, sir. 90. gt. And into 90. Come, my honored president: It's about a man's fines at least 100,000 dollars. if he breaks the law of 2 mg. 17th par. This law, if it comes true, already comes true. In this case, our greatest value is in nature for many reasons. Now it is made clear that our largest industry, which produces the biggest export income, is tourism. The reason people want to come here is because they find Iceland's natural nature beautiful, but it's not pretty unless we're being smart about it and not making any mess. I got the idea of this bill when I drove around the state of the United States, where in many places it's very neat, but you can also see regularly when you drive through the highways, which are often in the deserts or various spectacular places, says that people have to pay indiscriminately high amounts of money if it happens to trash. It's a clear message. Someone might ask, " Won't this go against what I've talked about in this field? ' freedom. I think it's the other way around because freedom comes with responsibility. It is clear that those who dispose of garbage make enormous expenses for the government, for taxpayers, because it is expensive to pick up the mess. This suggestion received a few discussions when I introduced it several months ago. That's when they even came. The former mayor, who was concerned about these matters, felt that this was more than just a broad one, i.e. as well as urban communities and rural communities. I think it's the viewpoint that men need to discuss. Based on the discussion that was created, I understood that such provisions could be contained in the police releases already. The management of many areas has become a problem, e.g. in our beloved capital city, Reykjavík. I heard from one professional driver who told me that tourists stopped him the other day and asked him if city workers had a strike. He did not recognize it, and he asked why. That was because the streets of the city were so dirty. Of course, there is something that we need to fix as soon as possible. If our highlands and around the highways were to be found in a general area of garbage, there would be grave damage. I think we should hurry to finish a case like this, which I would think would be a good solid agreement about, and give a clear signal that it will not be over. A respectable president. I suggest this bill goes to what? Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u76	A respectable president. Actually, I disagree a little bit. A senator about what he said about freedom, because I believe this is a violation of freedom and, on the other hand, a completely legitimate thing. However, I would like to commend him for calling things what they are. This often comes up in a discussion of freedom of expression. When it is felt right, they stop calling it a violation of freedom of expression. This is, of course, a loss of freedom, but as I say absolutely legitimate, here are very clear, obvious and rich public interests at stake which justify this perfectly. So I'm not going to whip it. A senator does that in himself. But my question isn't about it. I'd like to know if it was. A senator can explain the source of this amount. There's 100 you're gonna say. K. In the bill, it doesn't sound any worse than any other amount, but I wonder whether the amount is derived from a particular location, whether any specific reference was determined by the amount selected, or whether it is simply a figure considered to be scary enough, so that people simply don't do this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is always good to think about it as well as to wonder. A senator mentions when we are reducing people's freedoms. You could say that people are being reduced to their freedom to dispose of garbage. But then you come naturally to what I think all the ideologies that were fighting for freedom and putting freedom out said that freedom always comes with responsibility. Throwing garbage will lead to consequences. It's like when we, without comparing it, maintain people's freedom to harm other people physically and in other ways. I think it's a very normal problem of freedom. However, it is always good to reflect on this. In terms of the amount, I will admit that such fines are common in many other countries. I named the United States because I and my family have traveled there, and this caught my attention. There was one very famous campaign, so I now allow myself to slid the English language, the respectable president, who was called 'Don't Mess leth Texas'. [[Watch it.]] This large land, which is a natural geographic scale far greater than most European countries and largeer than many others at least, took on an overall campaign to eliminate waste. There were a much higher amount of money in fines there than there were 100 of you. K. You can never reach any scientific conclusion when it comes to this amount. But, hey. When a senator asked if it was because it was a frightening number, he asked.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u78	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic, and he proposes the translation into Texas to be a success. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u79	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a hearing about nature clinics. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide the Environment and Resource Minister to establish a staff to assess the experience of a nature clinic over the last 20 years and to determine if economic services are formally taking on more regional projects than they currently have. Then the group will be assigned to develop ways to strengthen the cooperation of nature clinics and institutions of the State in order to make the most use of funding for education and monitoring the natural world. The importers of the proposal, along with the one listed here, are aggressors. Councilmen of Brynhildur St. Pétursdóttir, Höskuldur Þórhallsson, Þorvarðardóttir Sæmundsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Þórnun Þórunn Árnason, Egilsdóttir, Daðason Dardar, Willum Þórsson Þrsson, Pálsson, and Valgerður of Gunnarsdóttir. The suggestion may include: that there is now a high level of chemical and environmental activity in Iceland because of new climate targets and increasing tourism and in general environmental awareness and the importance of reviewing how capital and professional knowledge are spent and how it can best use European society. Nature agencies play an important role under the laws of nature research and the implementation of nature protection in cooperation with the institutions of the Environment and Resources Office. More than 40 years have passed since the first ideas of the natural clinics of the region and more than 20 years since the first living room began work. A concept of the establishment of a plant can be traced back in the '70's to a committee that produced proposals for the relationship between Iceland's Natural Institute for Nature and Nature Research. The ideas developed for 20 years until they became law No. 60/1992. Then, in 1995, the Eastern Institute of Nature was formed first by a nature clinic, then eight of which were formed in one by another. During the early years, the offices were operated by the direct involvement of the state of government, which made one member of the administrations, but in 2002, the State withdrew from direct room involvement, making contracts for the State's budget to establish with the communities who own and run them. Since 2002, the link between a natural institution and the Environment and Resource Ministry has gradually been reduced, despite the fact that the discussion of the time was not intended to reduce cooperation with the government, but to explain the management responsibility. At the same time, the government's financial contributions to the institutions have diminished. Today, as previously said, eight natural institutions have also been built up by some parts of the country, which operate in the field of natural instruction, supported by state and rural society. It is therefore suggested that in the work group the cooperation of a natural home and a residence in the same part of the country can strengthen the work of both parties. During those 20 years, it has been found that in addition to the legal functions of the natural institutions, the function of the natural world plays an important part in which the plant is active, increasing the level of education, and increasing knowledge in the communities where it operates. Thus, the benefits of society are many, and institutions operate people who are unlikely to live in the country if these activities were not available. Then university students are often employed for summer jobs in their living rooms, but that is just what is often lacking, that summer university education is being held in the country. In addition to the support of the State of Nature, members of the Member States bring in at least 30% of their contribution. The plant is so active in building special sectors in its field of education, as well as in hand-solding and sponsoring tasks. In this way, they subsidize the country's capital and increase financial activity in rural areas, where they work in business with service partners, thus increasing outbacks directly and indirectly. Knowledge of nature also works directly in various community projects, such as rural society and the development of tourism and various other occupations, thus contributing to the sustainable use of natural resources. At the same time, this knowledge was used in public and school education. They also benefit from knowledge of natural processes in the community. The work of a plant requires well - educated personnel, important where there is a wide variety of, powerful society. The living room's work may attract people who, if they are involved in other assignments in the area, remain for a long time. In this way, the work works against the leak of wisdom in the country and strengthens effective regional policy. A diverse and powerful community is built on social activities, as well as on the fact that people with different backgrounds exist in order to carry out tasks classified under leisure time. Thus, the benefits of working for naturalists are many, although it may be difficult to appreciate the benefits of naturalists working in the parent society or attending a meeting. Thus, when given an assignment in a natural home, it is a ideal way to transport public work to the country. While monitoring and research is important to national organisations, it may be more practical for the community as a whole to work at regional institutions, to reduce travel costs, to cope with unexpected situations in nature, and to integrate a wide range of tasks in the region. This involves high concentrations in the geographical distribution of strains. The Environment Ministry and its agencies should make full use of it to make the most of their resources and knowledge. Thus, hiding more activities during monitoring and research in Icelandic nature, such as vegetation, bird life, and nature protection, is an effective means to ensure a wide range of jobs spread around the country and to maximise the use of knowledge and capital resources. It is also urgent to expand the legal role of a nature clinic in protecting the environment, where projects in this area are becoming increasingly urgent throughout the country. There is, however, material for others not so short a discussion that will not be discussed here. If it were a desire to delegate additional government projects to the nature agency, there are some ways to, such as, by law, to delegate a job to the living room with special contracts to the Ministry, either on new projects or on a project that is already legal. It is then possible to delegate tasks to institutions with special government letters or with special contracts between a natural room and those responsible for national projects. As mentioned earlier, 2002 changed the law on the living rooms. At that time, the State withdrew from direct involvement, but treaties with communities that owned and run their offices. Although the intention was to continue strong relationships with the Environment and Resource Ministry, the association has gradually diminished. The will of the legislature in 2002, when the law was approved, will be met. clearly in the panel of more than a part of the Council of the Environment of the Council of the Council of 127 C.E. 1220, with President's permission: The ▪ The more important point is that in the contracts that a minister will make with natural institutions, based on Article 2. The bill, shall be commanded that the Environment Ministry will regularly meet with Iceland's Natural Institutes of Nature and Natural Protection where the Agency has committed the work of nature agencies on the basis of Article 4. The bill.How's it going? At the 2005 National Office of Nature, the Society confirmed the Supreme Court. The environmental minister, Sigríður Anna Thorddddddddd, Þórðardóttir this insight into a speech. Quoted by a president's permission: It is important that the Environment Ministry closely monitors the activities of a nature clinic, with a view to the tasks proposed by the EEA and the National Institute of Natural Nature in Iceland. The Treaty requires cooperation with the Ministry in the plant where these work is being carried out. The first meeting was held in November 2003, but these meetings are expected to be held every two years. From these two quotations it is clear that the opinion of Ministers, Ministry and Generals was in 2002 that natural institutions play an important role in nature research and the implementation of nature protection in cooperation with the institutions of the Environment Ministry. In spite of this, these purposes have not been fulfilled. In addition to diminishing cooperation, there was a significant reduction in the government budget to the institutions of the EU. This was added slightly during 2016, but the trend that took place during this period is contrary to government policy and national parishion plans. But hopefully we will look forward to a better time now. Therefore, it is felt that this would be a good opportunity for environmental and resource ministers and rural groups to pause and evaluate the experience of the plant for the past 20 years. A team on such work might be considering whether practical measures of nature might prove to be formally taking on more regional projects than they now have. It is important that we continue to strengthen the cooperation of nature agencies and the establishments of the State in order to make the best use of funding for education and monitoring the natural world. At the same time, rural society could determine whether it would be reasonable for more rural communities to be involved in natural institutions and whether the increase in rural contribution to the work could have a multiple effect in society. In recent years many countries have built up places of knowledge, as we have seen, that work in the field of natural education. It is therefore also important that in the work group, you look into ways that your cooperation with a plant and residence can strengthen both work. V.E.G. President. As mentioned earlier, Iceland has a high level of dough in nature and environmental protection, including Because of new climate targets and increasing tourism, it is important to review these issues at that point. Then I have concluded the key facts about the importance of this proposal and suggest that it be made available to the environment and transport committee for further discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u80	Mr. President. It's under such a finer talk about the plant and the good stuff. A senator who is now in office at the highest office. I cannot help but agree with this proposal, though only to think back to the days when I am and what I am doing. A senator and a chief. President, Einar K. Guðfinnsson, we were younger and squeamisher, and we used much force to see that the way of a nature clinic would be greater than it was then. In particular, I'd like to give my best compliments. A president by the means he was in his time paid the poorest in the chair of a environmental minister who wanted to build a nature firm in Bolungarvík. They did not lack the highest priority. The president and with him did it to succeed. My experience as both a member and a minister of the former, especially when I was environmental minister, was very positive by nature offices. I am aware that since then things have developed in various ways, new institutions have developed that in some places work at their side, set up, educational sites related to the university. That's why I think the suggestion that you have. A senator dictates that a working group be established in order to assess the experience of a nature clinic is very timely. I hope from that work, there are ideas that will promote research and surveillance in Iceland's nature. I would like to say, as soon as I acknowledge the support of this proposal and hope that it will be approved before the election, that it is my opinion that, in particular for the scattered settlements, the natural institutions have been a very welcome addition to job and research in the respective areas. That's especially what I think we should consider in these subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson answered, and he can wholeheartedly agree with him that his foundation area is very important. As I explained in my talk, it will in fact be a slow estimate of how important it is to receive a wide range of knowledge in every community through making a stage for this kind of educational work. We can, for example. Please note that the living room I know best, although I believe that I have visited them well, is the one working in the East. There are eight employees there. It is much less important to build a community and connect knowledge activities, both within and throughout the country, with a foreign educational work. We can take the reindeer, a special assignment in the East. It contains, for example, Cooperation with Norway in various areas, in the case of reindeer monitoring, reindeer monitors, and other areas that might actually be difficult to touch, except because the work of a park is in the East. I therefore believe that in the work of this team, there will be a wide range of cooperation opportunities, both with the estates, as it were. A senator entered, and like a university and other national institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u82	Mr. President. I can't help but get on the plane, and even sparks when I get into a discussion about nature clinics. I believe that when this was arranged for 20, 25 years ago, a magazine was broken. I believe that they were created with very great potential to promote research into Iceland's nature, as well as to build little scientific and educational communities in the scattered regions. How many clinics are there now? Eight or nine, I don't remember, but they all mattered. [[Up to eight.]] However, the trend has been, unfortunately, that governments have not always fully appreciated their importance and advantages and have been reduced from the government. They have not been lifted in ways that could have been done. Me and us, who fought for them at the time, like the smart one. A senator sitting behind me, the highest. President, saw for us that the arms of these tiny nucleuss would then be loaded up with additional subjects, more staff. What is missing in many of these fine communities is educated individuals, education has to be raised. That's one way to do it. I believe there are many projects that are available in various institutions that all of us are gathered here, on the southwest corner, that could be moved out there and put them to work. I also see that increasing cooperation with Icelandic University and even more of the college foreigns can create significant opportunities for the future. I think that many universities that are interested in and that have people in their own communities who are interested in research and things that are especially related to Iceland's nature are deeply appreciated by these opportunities. This needs to be expressed. Of course, that is what the government is doing. I'm going to save myself a long talk about nature agencies as I would like to, but I'd say again and again, and give my support to this work, even though I would surely have wanted it to be a more radical proposal and a state power to further support the nature clinics. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I can wholeheartedly agree that the work of the plant needs further support. What I believe is that there is a more successful way for each laboratory to get a set-up project. In the East it is, in fact, the task of the reindeer. A person can envision an alarm during the Brefjord or project related to the Bárfjord that would strengthen the Western Museum. The Western Institute of Nature has specific projects related to the Horn Coast but can easily add more or more fixtures. The same way, the country could be circled. I thought, for example. The success of the Northeast Institute of Nature was in some way linked more closely to the RAMY, the work at Lake Mey, the research carried out there. Even if I thought it was possible to make a deal with the plant, I would be responsible for that assignment. There's probably a difference of opinion, but I think it's worth a lot of thought to review in the best way a strong cooperation would be achieved. We have seen a very interesting growth sprouting out of the Northeast Lab at the Rifi laboratory, which now seems to be moving, but no doubt needs more support for the next steps, the first steps have been taken. But there is a project that would undoubtedly not have existed without a natural home in that part of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-23-138.u84	Mr. President. I had not planned to give a talk, but I have expressed my support to this suggestion and as I have listened more carefully to my speech. A senator and 1st, I can see that it is a natural education fund on these topics. It makes it more apparent to have a place to talk about nature clinics than it does to most people. This is an old hobby of mine and of many others. Of course, the assignments she mentions, and especially two of them, are that I cannot help but come here and describe their support. I was naturally the environmental minister who was struggling with the bill on British protection that has been very effective since then. I just agree with what. A senator for the research on the biodivers and natural processes of the British Earth, which is linked to the protection of the great environment, would be very well at home on a large scale in the hands of a plant which could also be linked to studies of the natural field that is located within the National Park on Snæfellsnes, which was just a proposal made by me and approved by the General Assembly. Because of what? A senator named RAMY, I cannot help but agree with her when she says that she saw herself linking the research center to the Lakes and the nature clinic nearby. There are other projects that could be summed up that would make the excellent research that has, of course, been done on the lake of Mice a great success. And when has it been needed if not now? What do we see now? We're looking up at previously unknown changes in CEE that are changing at least Its color, and possibly it may have very harmful consequences in the future, I'll say nothing about it. Although I am not one of the people who believe that its main cause is human, I believe that it is more likely to be the greenhouse effect and global warming that most cause the most, there is nothing to be said about it. This is an investigation. We cannot allow natural spheres of this kind to descend without our understanding of its cause and may be able to intervene if possible. How important that is! Then I believe that it is very important that, in addition to the Mey Lake study, deeper research will be done on the fish stocks of the abundant water. They were not specifically examined since Pétur M. Jónasson, professor emerius of the University of Copenhagen, and Hákon Óskarsson's son published a very remarkable book, not in Icelandic, but in a foreign language, of their research on fish stocks in Lake Moriscos, of which they are very special. That's where we've got the natural glow of pink. We've got it, too. And we have a very special area, such as. Syria, where the alcove is, like in single areas in the Lake Þingalva, spawns along the springs of the lavafloor. In fact, I have seen on an unusual day four roars, and two pink branches are squeezed into such a well to cool off. These are just amazing natural phenomena that are there. I have thought that I was led to a destination that most prefers to stop. I'm gonna kill on the back of Laxá in a Moyolve. Not to be overlooked is the fact that in Lake Þingalva, there is another population, especially by the Alleglers and the government in the last 15 years, and I now feel threatened. But he is, I do not say inquisitive, but the only research that has ever been carried out by Generalis. I am, for example. the opinion that in such large provinces and ideals, people would like to put in one of the parks, they would probably be setting up branch offices. I think it should be because of the unique water of Þingalva, not just on Iceland's scale, but on a global scale. Would I consider it a very worthy assignment for the smell of a nature clinic to investigate it? I know that there are some institutions that do it now, including private people who do it with special elegance. But the motivation for this, the seed, was the Allied Assembly of Iceland, which through its laws has presupposed and cared for the ethic, which then appeared into a national park and then again, being enlarged five times in the previous years by many good people. I think things like this are important. They can be completely won and controlled in a region. This creates an increased theoretical base outside the southwest corner, creating jobs, and creating what we need in all places where we will have built permanently, we also need a community that we can call an education community. If more than a few people, it is one of the foundations that needs to be prepared for viable ground. This is very important to bear in mind. Hence, the backwaters of nature were more likely to be thought of as sitting streams, where such work could be led together into one vice. It's important to keep that in mind. But there must be words just as it is for both generals, especially in the past, and for the highest. A minister was not an understanding of that attitude. Then they felt that it would be better to have all these research on one hand and preferably at some institution, actually two, on the southwest corner. The distribution of study and distribution of knowledge is very positive for development based. It is the most important thing when we are thinking about our country's future because it must be inhabited. From this moment on, I could start talking about the livestock deal, but I'm not gonna do it. But I reiterate the words I have made about this suggestion that is well - thought - out and forward and clear. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir knows her nose further in these substances. That's not gonna be said about me.
