ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 755, for sale of holdings of the Lands Bank hf. In the City of Borg, Hf. And Valior Hf., from Kristján L. Möller.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u2	President. Today's program has eight so - called members of Congress, a case held by members of the Parliament, but a vast number of primes delivered and approved are the heads of the administration. Six of the Senate hearings that will be spoken of today are brought up by members of all classes; a concierge proposal for 24-hour ventilation in patients' homes, a proposal for travel risk assessment, a proposal for a day's education on child rights, a bill for short work time, a proposal for treatment of acidification in the north, and a proposal for the use of tyres of tyres on games and sports fields. A respectable president. All of these are important issues and much agreements about them. That is why I feel that it is only natural for me to ask why they were not earlier on the program. The answer is simple. The president of the council has begun to demand that the governments order the priorities of the council. No cases were to be planned until the priorities of the Independence Party on Camping were called. They can then judge the importance of that matter in comparison with what I have read in the preceding article. Does this mean that the Independence Party alone is in charge of the council? No, the other government group also had its priority, that was, downing a developing research agency. As a result, a large amount of money was moved from an independent and dissociative agency to the Ministry of State, and the Ministry's development team began to start a new operation at the start of the year and began to give support to filmmaking. There is no such granting, but there seems to be no obligation to be the country's highest level. The Minister. I think these examples illustrate the priorities of the government and ask others to judge themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u3	V.E.G. President. Last Monday was on the program for a meeting until the 3rd. and vote for the bill on changing the national flags of Iceland and its national armor mark on the use of the flag in the marketing of goods and services. At that point, the matter was taken over, and as the leading speaker of the case, I will briefly explain why. The industrial organisations have naturally been concerned, and during the development of the case at the Committee, the organization sent in an excellent report on the subject and followed that information with helpful indications. The representatives of the United States were then contacted at a critical moment before the 3rd. in the General Assembly, with comments and ideas about how things were done and how things were going. The decision was made to respond to and give industrial organizations a chance to follow this process and further inform the committee of their ideas. Last morning, the industrial organization appeared before the committee and reviewed the case and explained their views and adjustments to the committee. Its memo is already available on the Generals' Web site, where interested ones can study the suggestions. In short, they point to the fact that since the flag is in nature the meaning of its source label, it is important to ensure that consumers can prefer to assume that the source information is clear, such as when the flag is used in the market of products and services, the available origins of the European Economic Convention, Book 4. At any rate, I felt that I was quick to respond and that I have every reason to say thank you. Chairman of the administration and monitoring committee and the Commission. President for quick action. It is my hope that the matter will not be overly demanding and that this rotation will improve.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u4	Mr. President. As I've talked about in the past, in education I've been impressed and maybe I've been treated for the highest degree. A minister of them, as he may make changes through budgets rather than through cross-cutting discussions. It is a pleasure, however, to see that he has agreed to the proposal made by a team of fellow workers in the northeast. A group were appointed with locals and school champions who were involved in the colleges at the Grinch, in Akureyri, and in the Netherlands, both in the Lysa of Réjadal and in Húsavík. As a matter of fact, a minister has fallen from united plans. He has concluded that the schools work together, but all those involved in this area feel that it will be far more successful for the future, both in local and regional policy, as well as in a higher choice and support of all professional infrastructure, much more than the fact that we had been facing much more time - consuming administrative changes. A respectable president. It is a happy situation that at last has reached some finish point, at least for now. Of course, we must be confident that this will continue, for we live in the midst of these areas with a very limited number of students. That is why cooperation with school is so important for students to be able to study by telecommunications, even in cooperation with other schools. So I can't help but rejoice today that the minister has been instructed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u5	V.E.G. President. It is satisfying and reason to bring up the subject that last week's discussion at the Assembly Hall was a major feature of environmental coverage. They take over many areas and touch all of us. Climate change is one of the greatest problems mankind faces. If greenhouse gas emissions cannot be controlled, there is a risk of major disturbances in earth's environment and the living conditions of future generations. After ten years, the problem will be the greatest in the future, but now it requires action. The project calls for investments and innovations that support environmentally friendly technology. By promoting a climate action program, the government shows its will in action. V.E.G. President. For the first time, the Icelandic government has set aside particularly for a comprehensive climate - related strategy. For example, during 2016's budgets, more than 30 million go to Lakejörg and Weather Park to develop projects, improve monitoring, and set up living classrooms on climate change, allowing the public to see their impact on the population. Changes in glaciers can be said to be the most obvious manifestations in climate change, but the bioavailability in Europe is as good as in this country. It would seem that tourists would be interested in seeing such changes and experience how much glaciers have melted in this country over the past few years. In an easy way, we could make it possible for people to see the effective results from monitoring glaciers, at Lake Seven, and maybe cold water, which shows the variability. This would give rise to the attraction for tourists, scientists, and others, contributing to the distribution of tourist currents and funding. V.E.G. President. With a more reasonable approach, we can integrate tourism and research with emphasis on increasing environmental awareness.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u6	Mr. President. The results of the EFTA Court during the days that the Icelandic government cannot set up rules to prevent importing non-frozen meat, are amazed and questions about whether Icelandic law and constitution are not above the EEA Convention referred to in the opinion. Dr. Vilhjálmur Arason warns of the danger of importing raw fresh meat into the country. The meat may be contaminated by drugs and hazardous substances, as well as by the risk of bacteria resistant to antibiotics. He said that the EFTA decision violates public health standards and that Icelandic health specialities are replaced by the EU directive. This is a major concern, also due to the risk of transmission of infectious diseases in livestock. The right of the nation to protect human health and well-being of livestock must be great, but the EFTA Court has a position to allow unbound import of the raw non-fried meat which runs across Icelandic law. The EEA contract has been expanding. I believe the Icelandic law clearly states that the import of raw unheated meat is prohibited. The EEA contract cannot go beyond Icelandic law. We have to protect public health and the dangers we are about to face, that if this happens to happen, there will be a lot of livestock diseases.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u7	V.E.G. President. I want to start my speech by thanking you. Councilmen Elín Hirst and Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, for best speeches yesterday in the council. I must say, I wholeheartedly agree with what they had to say. But now I come to what I'm going to write about, i.e. The overall context of housing. The new Hagsjá National Bank reports that twice as many people were buying their first apartment in 2015 as they were in 2008. In 2008, the first purchase of less than 10% of all businesses had real estate in the whole country. In 2015 alone, more than 22% of all business was the first purchase, or some 2,600 apartment containers, of some 11,700 apartments. It is heartwarming to see that it seems that it is easier for young people to buy homes today. However, it is important to review the terms of payment. It is necessary to look into a person's specification. No longer can you see those who pay tens of thousands of rent can't get through payment. Yet, there will always be some rent - renting, temporary and untimely. That's why it's important that the bills be taken at the highest level. Social and housing minister matters to the need for rent-slocation benefits. Most visitors are finished. The church's welfare committee, and the work has been going ahead with hope. Within the next few weeks, the committee's attention will be carried out, and housing conditions will very likely become legal within a few weeks. It is important to observe the overall context of housing. Once rent markets have been taken care of, the insurance policy will be taken care of. In this context, credit rates and payments of the mortgage need to be viewed. Housekeeping incentives, e.g. In the form of a special possession savings, and as I mentioned earlier in my speech, a review of the standards set out in the credit evaluation is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to make up the subject of the Supreme Court, where the Supreme Court has agreed to a reimbursement from immigrants because of the sum they paid for tollocate. Tolcovians have been exported, but the idea is to move to the country with no tolls and imports. Of course, when customs are offered, paying is needed, so the price is surmounted, and consumers pay for it. According to the court's sentence, pay the bills back about half a billion dollars, no doubt there are other companies out there who will test their rights in this regard. The question is with this half billion and how consumers will enjoy it, since it is likely those who have paid extra for the cheeses and meats and what they have now brought to this country. I want to challenge these traders, one of them is Hagar, a big party on the market, to return this to consumers. I also think of the Neythal Society, though it may not be normal for a business organization to strengthen a union. I feel that governments have given embarrassingly small amounts to the consumer organization through the years, which play an enormously important role and, for example, send very good comments on various matters. They get eight million. K. from the state of the year. Shameful. I'd like the guy with the money on like that. The consumer organizations and that these immigrants remembered in some practical way to return their money to consumers. I challenge them here to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u9	President. I'd like to make the subject of a change in construction policy, but these changes are for introductions and reviews on the website of the Environment and Resource Ministry. There are two things I would like to make up for the publicity involved. First, there is a suggestion that the bioavailability of the disabled is reduced and is weaker than in the current building order. It is clear to me that such changes do not meet the current act of engineering. When the person standing here recommended maning laws at the time was in the bill as it came from me, then Minister, to contribute to access. The General took the matter into consideration, and the General concluded that access would be guaranteed. The universal convention violated the bioavailability requirement. It is being suggested that bioavailability be reduced from the current level, and then, according to my opinion, it must be met by the General Assembly. The other is the social impact of the covariates, other social effects. For instance, the requirement for the window to turn in two directions has been removed and the window should be opened in one direction only. Windows that just turn north on a small and lower apartment make that apartment much easier for an apartment. Implementation of the kitchen for more apartments and the fact that windows can only turn north is also changes that have not been found in a building rule so far. A respectable president. It is necessary to evaluate the social impact of the changes proposed to a building policy and to encourage the labor movement in Iceland to examine them because I want to hear that they agree with the changes proposed here to make as far as the less expensive apartments are concerned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u10	V.E.G. President. One thing that characterized Iceland's financial system before a crash was that it was going on a high - interest policy, as it is now, and it brought in a foreign venture. Now, for the next month, the Sensitian offers 200 billion of that money to free a so - called snow hanger. A man would have intended for these events, i.e. what happened here in the leading-up of the collapse and necessary measures because of now, taught the Secret Bank something. But it is stated in response to the financial and economic minister's request from the person here on the inlet down of a currency last year that there's more money to buy at the government accounts up to 54 billion dollars. And it's about to be loosened by 200 next month. The answer also says that this influx is restricted to money that enters the country by the so - called New Investment Guide of the Secret Bank. This means that the bat is offering back the venture investments not only to come here for interest, but they get another 20% more for the currency they bring in here. The late bank manager has said that the influx of funds is a little like an alcohol effect, it's very good in moderation, but it seems to me that the second bank is insurmountable, and I think it has just gotten into an overexcited wax filler.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u11	A respectable president. I wanted to have a place to say. paritaprevir But I'm afraid she's ill, so I'll direct my words to you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son. I'd like to start by congratulating The Pirates with the huge acceptance they get from polls. I'm not denying that I'd rather see the Independence Party with a 40% poll, but let's just wait and see what comes out of the ballot next year. My point of this exchange is the comments of Birgitta Jónsdóttir she published on her Facebook page recently, since she claims she does not want the liberals of Pirata. I know about the liberals who can think well of supporting Pirata in the next election, so I wonder what this message is for them. Is their support being refused? Do they also remember being excluded from the platoon? Would Nobel laureate Milton Friedman, if he had been an Icelander, not have been welcome to the Pirate Party? I think it's a very peculiar politics because I thought Pirata was a broad array of people who wanted to change, active democracy and transparency, and so forth. But, according to this, only some welcome to do good things, not all of us. Then I'd like to hear Captain Pirata's attitude toward the European Policy of the Party, because it's stated in a recent study of Gallup that a greater proportion of Pirata voters, 67%, would probably or probably vote for Iceland's involvement in the European Union if a national law on the matter was being applied today. That's why I'd like to know a little more about Pirata's European policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u12	A respectable president. It is true that this question should be asked. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, but with regard to the question of being welcome to the Pirata, the answer is definitely yes. It is stated in Pirata's basic policy that rejecting some comments, no matter who comes from any other material, is at odds with Pirata's basic policy. It states in Article 1.1: ▪ The Perirates stress critical thinking and well - informed decisions. The next team, 1.2, says: ▪ This means that Piratar's policy is opposed in the light of data and knowledge gained regardless of whether a proposal appears to be desirable at first or not. Pirata's view of ideas is independent of who her leaders are. Since the beginning of the summer of 2012, members of Pirata, at least for as long as I've been with the movement, have ever been members of this movement, since the summer of 2012, who call themselves liberals. It is absolutely new to see that someone is surprised or is being discussed. Free-minded people are welcome in Pirata, and everyone is welcome in Pirata whether they call themselves liberals or not, whether they call themselves feminists or not. All they have to have in common is to accept the basicity of Pirata, and it is clearly stated on our website, and I urge all members of the council to examine it. When it comes to the EU, it has been our attitude from the beginning that it is a decision to be made in the nation. It is not in itself the role of politicians to decide this on their own. Rather, it must be a part of that decision. After all that is going ahead of the application procedure to the EU, it is obvious that we should vote on whether or not to continue the terms and at the end, of course, to vote for a full involvement in the negotiation process. I hope this answers questions. A senator who is likely to answer one another too.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u13	A respectable president. This morning on the Environment and Transport Committee, a meeting was conducted that featured the flight security of Akureyri. Thus, in terms of growth, Istavia has made decisions on reducing the number of air traffic drivers and recording the so - called AFI service that I understand only those who have less research on their backs and are much less experienced and who have no authority to control the very important radar that is necessary for the Araks Airport. In fact, it is strange in view of the fact that governments have expressed a keen interest in strengthening international flights to Akureyri and taking action in that direction. We now see a cause for joy that information that comes from a temple tunnel is put in order to prepare for the construction of a new flight barn. That is why you wonder which direction Istavia is really going. There were claims that this was only a temporary operation that would be necessary for a person, but when tools are made to become a new service agreement, where Istavia will suggest that an AFI service be able to accept them, you have the impression that it will not be. I'd like to direct it to the State Department and to any person involved in ensuring that there will be the same service as has been at the Akureyri Airport since 1960. What matters is that the ministry is not only the same but also the security. We've heard the same speculation before. [[The president calls.]] They were rejected for safety purposes. I hope so too now, and Istavia is removing these ideas from the quickest.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u14	A respectable president. I'm going to come up here for a press transfer and a question of why. paritaprevir A Valgerður Bjarnadóttir to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on certain grants to provide a documentary on the status of refugees in Iceland and projects in developing cohesion. It's a moviemaker, a nice guy, Árni Gunnarsson, who gets the strength from the State Department of State to up to 3 million and 3 million from the government to make these documentarys. It's nice to be equipped with this kind of documentary, which includes. Showing in school and on RUV, I don't comment on it, but I make strong comments about how it's being accomplished by sponsors for these projects. I can't put words together. I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm A skilled filmmaker is an excellent friend. Minister, he worked at the same job as his assistant to the then social minister, a party brother, and also comes from the L.A.P.A., as well as from the highest rank. Minister. I don't want this kind of society. There are plenty of people in Iceland with very good ideas that want to do all kinds of things, want to make documentarys, want to make movies full length, and so on. It's not to be a crucial matter if you're a friend to a minister, if you get money to do this kind of thing. It's one of the first things to be the highest. A minister repairs money that flows to a newly formed development research agency that was formerly a developing research agency. Of course, it is a wet barrel in the face of all those who criticized that the institution was put down to use the money just as soon as the office is set up to share money with their friends. I don't think it's okay. We're not supposed to put up with this bullshit. We're sitting at the General Assembly of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u15	A respectable president. It's a lot of talks here. I'm not going to get involved in a discussion about documentary filming, but I'm really interested in listening to what you're saying. Senators. I don't remember these talks from them during their last term, but there are inquiries about all for jobs and answers to those who would likely be as hot as speeches, acquaintances, friendships as well as the like, if there was a wish. That one. During the last term, members of Congress held no such talks and were content with the way things were done. [[Up front.]] But everything's fine, if you want to run a project like this, I'm sure I'll back it up. I just didn't see that it was done that way during the last term when it happened. Parliamentaries supported the Parliamentary section. But I'm fine with that. [[Up front.]] However, the subject was discussed with a greater degree of procrastination. It's a legal committee that's involved in customs. There we live with it, the Supreme Court has judged that certain companies are now being paid back on the grounds that taxes have been taken over by 1.2 billion, it seems to me that the entire payment could be. It is true that men do not argue with the judge, and this must be an enigma failure, but the above seems to all the grounds to suggest that the agreement with the International Business Agency at its time, to increase the competition of the agricultural market, was carried out in a way that would not benefit consumers. Now these fines are to be paid to these large companies, but no one can show them any harm, anyway it hasn't been done. The following are consumers who have not been allowed to have competition for at least, perhaps in quality, though I doubt it. [[The president calls.]] They're always sitting around with a sore forehead, and I'm sorry. I believe we need to revise this project and other activities involved in our business affairs in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u16	A respectable president. Either the maintenance of an apartment home has dropped billions of dollars last year or the rate of tax fraud has increased by billions after the government reduced the pay of remuneration for maintenance building projects. The figures published in the News magazine this morning are presented to anyone, and as a result of my discussion with the secretary of finance on Monday for tax fraud, it was unwise for the government to have attacked the tax increase that was meant to reduce the remuneration paid by people who are holding on their premises by a worthwhile tax system. All work was called the campaign that the last government promoted, ensuring that people who are renovating their housing receive a total worth tax from local industrial work. As a result, large numbers of people stopped having black jobs in maintenance of apartment living and began counting those income forwards. But not just this money. As a result, there were also many other incomes, such as working on shops, trades, and other such items, and tax divorces were made much better. It is completely incomprehensible that a government who claims to have the means to reduce taxes on the big estate and on the top of the country's private homes has seen special reason to increase taxes on people who are maintaining their housing, resulting in the loss of black occupations and the loss of federal funds in the past and in the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u17	A respectable president. This is where we have voted for 2nd. about the originals that are very important to us. We have made specific warnings about this matter, and we want to make sure that the discussion about it is not quite over. There's more people coming up, there's a lot of things going on in the world, and, in general, we feel that this case is a positive thing, and that's why we're going to vote by now, but with them the discussion isn't over and that it's going to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u18	A respectable president. I hereby suggest a resolution on a review of cunning contributing. [[Up top, one?]] With me are the couriers of Vilhjálmur Árnason, Páll Valur Björnsson and Oddný G. Harðardóttir. [[Up front.]] The proposal reads: The Council concludes to hide a marine economist and agri-gri-gritary minister to review the rules of subspecies and to bring them to the position of the environment to be equal, e.g. by providing a variable index for fishing areas and periods. In fact, with a short report, this proposal was introduced to the 144th legislature. For example, when you talk about slying, insides are removed from the abdomen of a fish. The percentage of sledges varies from species. A subterfuge factor is found on the Fratellis'webs, but the art of craftification is the percentage of sludged unquenchable fish. According to the Fish Room, Snips Index is 0.84. This means that when the cod is landless, 84% of the fish are withdrawn from the sea, which means that if you are 1 of you. kilograms of cod are 540 pounds [840 kg] away from the seaside, while 160 are registered as sledgem. The crime factor is the same for the whole country, regardless of fishing, fishing grounds, seasons, and so forth. The percentage of sledgs is known to vary depending on the underlying factors, providing an overall index of 16% of the share of differences. It is common in January to May in the industrial regions of the South and West that the percentage of Swamps is 25 to 300% and even higher. If 26% are expected to stay in fish and land unscrupulously, only 16% will be withdrawn, but 26% should be withdrawn to get the correct weight of sly fish. That's 100 kilos of every ton the country's unscrupulous. As we have seen, the dark content of cod differs according to which places are given, with what fishing tools and during which period you can benefit from the platform today. Although many have a sledge content of 25 to 300%, others have a cool content of 6◯10%. It is therefore possible to profit from land's inexhaustible resources. Transporters believe that it is important to review rules under the proposal that a higher degree of prudence in the area from the Horn of the East will be laid upon the west course from January 15 to April 15 each year. It has been emphasized to make the best use of marine products, so it is important for all to make full use of the valuables that may be produced in this article. The obvious conclusion is that when people lose their lives by bringing an unscrupulous catch to land, they will take him out on the ocean and throw him down on a table, which means that the valuables that could be used if a fish were snooked in the land will be lost and the value will be reduced. Therefore, it is not only the benefit of those who work in this article to correct this index but the entire nation's population. This has been discussed frequently over the past two decades, and many have expressed interest in causing changes, but little has happened in spite of problems with the sufferer. For example, on November 12, 2005, at the main meeting of the United Kingdom, a fish industry without construction was featured in the address of a so - called ocean - out minister, Einar K.. The Guðfinnsson of God: Because of the strong wishes for stakeholders, there are now expected to be a recovery factor in some form of bullfish, i.e. cod, ax, and an owl, and they are expected to always be weighed with cunning. It is expected that in a land or in a land, he would be subtly slyed and weighed. The benefits are obvious, the registration will be more accurate, and construction will not need to be obtained because the cool content will be derived from their source. It is clear that the way to put everyone under the same hat with the 16% cool content of different sources working within the same articles. It's time to change it and correct the index, so everybody's sitting at the same table. A respectable president. I've long spoken for this change, and it's important to reach the country, but now a great deal of value is taken from the ground, creating hundreds of millions or even billions of dollars each year's income as well as new, varied, and well - paying jobs in the marine region. This innovation, which is very powerful in Grindavik, in Isafjordur, and elsewhere, has brought much attention to the landstones, and recently heard in the news that Prime Minister of Norway, Erna Solberg, had spoken of the need for the Norwegian to follow along the Icelanders and to increase the value of seafronts. That's what we're going to do with this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u19	V.E.G. President. This cunning index has been under discussion for a long time. It is crystal clear that the stomach contents vary greatly between seasons and parts of the country, and I can quite support this proposal quickly. I'd like to ask you what. Is the senator speaking of the location from the corner of the east to Doomshold? Is the senator talking about the west or the east? I don't quite understand that in the text.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I have considered the measuring points used by the National Guard to use in these places. These are also the old points, used in peyote update at the time, so they are ancient meters. In the case of a committee, the point may need to be adjusted slightly. The point may have to be placed in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u21	V.E.G. President. Yes, I was actually asking which way this is, if it's for the West... yeah, or south. [[To the point: Yes, yes, yes.]] [[It took place in the North or south?]] [[AsmF: It's south.]] A fish spawns beyond the west and eats fur all around the country, so I've got the answer to the question and thanks for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u22	A respectable president. I recommend a synonym that the Council of Congress conclude to hide the social and housing minister from presenting at the World Parliament a bill to legalize the office of an agent of the elderly. This proposal assumes that a special agent's office will be established. His role must be to protect the rights and interests of the less advanced group of older ones. One way he does so is by giving counsel on his rights to the elderly and by responding to his feelings of violations, by making suggestions for reforming judicial decisions in the elderly, and by taking the initiative to establish a community policy discussion on the issues of the elderly. Service in the elderly is distributed on the hands of a country, a community, and a private partner. Laws that concern the tribe of paint are complex, especially in the area of taxes, social security, and health. The elderly are a large, varied group of people, and they vary in their ability to care for their own rights and interests. Thus, according to the moveers'opinion, there is a great need for proverbs that could lead to the rights and interests of the elderly and guide them in their rights. That need will only increase as time passes. It is expected that if you are 67 years of age and older, you will have an increase of about 26 of them. in the next 15 years, about 71%. It is estimated that 80 years of age and older will increase by less than 6,600 at the same time, about 55%. This tremendous increase in the oldest age groups calls for a new approach in all cases related to the elderly, especially in all services, housing, etc. This also calls for an ever - increasing flow of information to this group. Such suggestions have been made several times before but not granted. At the 120, 121, and 122th legislature, agreements were made to evangelize an agent of the elderly. They suggested that the government be assigned to investigate the prerequisite for the establishment of such an office that would take care of their interests and rights. If we look at a bill submitted to the 122th legion, a legislature was suggested to set up the office of an agent of the elderly, whose role would be to protect the interests and rights of the elderly. The report on the bill showed that there was a considerable debate that the elderly lacked respect for a spokesman who cared for government interests, ensured that the wishes of the elderly were observed before decisions made, observed that national rights, laws, and administration procedures were honorable, and were avoided if actions or inactions were violated against the rights, needs, or interests of the elderly. At the 126th legislature, proposals were still made for the synopsis of an agent of the elderly. It suggested that the government be commissioned to set up such an office that would protect the interests and rights of this group. At that time, the 136th legislation of legislatures was proposed for this group. It suggested that social and insurance minister be committed to establishing a service that would protect the interests and rights of the elderly. Whether this group's emissary agent would be set up or the community would take care of the project. Meetings would be held with the elderly'interest groups at work. Finally, the synopsis was the proposal presented here also to the 144th legislature but was not considered. In view of the movers, there is good reason to leave this office at last and, in reality, to believe that such an office did not become a reality earlier. I would especially like to point out that the U.S. Marshal of the Council, Tryggvi Gunnarsson, had not long since met the Administrative Board of Directors to discuss his work and considered him a special reason to mention the role of the elderly. In this way, the emissary of the Generals gets in the table more and more cases where the elderly are looking into their right to the government. They do not know their rights, and they do not know where to seek answers. In such cases, it is often the sole intention of sending a letter to the emissary. The fact is that information on the rights and duties of the elderly is not available in one place. Older citizens need to walk between the institutions with the papers to prove their rights, to call their phone table in order to obtain vague answers, and often none. The system is anything but simple, and sometimes it seems that the computer age has not yet appeared in Icelandic government systems. Are the older citizens of this country not better deserved? Not all relatives have family members who can resolve the matter and resolve a solution. The conclusion is that the older citizens of this country are often from the system they are entitled to, however, only because they refused to apply for this or the other fund or payment from the system. They also get out of a ministry that is entitled to them and often recalled their simple life, making it more bearable. Is it not minimal that we see to it that citizens of this country can obtain their solution in a simple and efficient way? Is it not minimal that older citizens receive what is truly theirs? The chairman of the National Association of Old Citizens and the chairman of the Society of Old Citizens, Þórunn Sven Sveinbjörnsdóttir, wrote a fine article in the Morning newspaper on this matter about about about a year ago. It says, under the permission of a president: It has been observed more and more frequently in member countries of the older citizen's Union how important it is for us to receive an emissary of the elderly to receive. The discussion points out that there are many and varied issues that could be received to the elderly. Asks, tips, and simply charges in which they consider their rights to be broken. It is also true that while other interest groups have received a spokesman or agent, they have been fighting for an agent of the elderly for years. The former chairman of the older citizen's Union says only later in his article word for word: ▪ People's knowledge of their rights differs and many have to have their status checked, availability of information in many places, and the ability to get a complete picture of them is complex. There is no record of information available to older people about the years to come. Older citizens who are looking for suitable housing are examples of a group who receive misleading information as to what is a service apartment or a security apartment and need public members, including an elderly agent if we had it, to come to a firm and reliable definition of these apartments. Don't buy the cat in the bag. This matter needs to be considered by the general council and to work on legislation on an older man in the field, that such an office can help improve the information flow to older citizens, and that this group's legal standing is fully respected. Accept requests, consider individual cases, and help people of all ages enjoy personal rights, respect, and social involvement. These are the words of the chairman of the National Association of older citizens. And that's how you keep going. In the BSc essay that Sólveig Pálmadóttir wrote about the rights of the elderly, it included the violation of the rights of older people living in aging homes and the violation of human rights at the time of the elderly. It should be noted that this essay was written some time ago, so not all statements may be correct today. But her conclusion was that the situation was such that it was necessary to appoint an older man who had the responsibility to protect their interests and to protect their rights and to improve their social interests. Sólveig writes that an agent would see to it that the government's policy on the affairs of the elderly is in harmony with their wishes and expectations. He may make improvements in matters that affect their interests in all things. Or he might take the initiative to have a discussion in the community on their issues and contribute to the improvement of the laws and administrations involved in the case of his clients. Margrét Margeirsdóttir, former president of the older citizen's community, said that older citizens were in terrible trouble when they had to pick up or defend their rights. There would be no person in the system to whom they could turn, and they would have a legal responsibility to handle their affairs when they felt that they were wrong. Sad to say, older citizens were vulnerable to institutions and authorities who wielded their power in an unjust way. It is proper to note that Margrét's words fell some eight years ago. But what has changed? The fact is, a large group of older citizens are constantly struggling with the system, as I once did, because they feel violated and unable to get their solution or correction. There are very often pensions, housing, tax, services, etc. We owe the older citizens of this country to live well in them and create them as safe as possible. These people have contributed much to the community in their long life, and the least we can do is make sure that they don't have to worry about what they're doing in their final years of life. The rights of older citizens are widely protected, not only by the law, by the regulations and administrations of this country, but also by our international commitments. Human rights and treaties put on our responsibilities when it comes to human rights and they're binding on us. Thus, Sólveig Pálmadóttir writes that the disrespectful treatment of elderly violations against constitutions and human rights is important; it is important to cherish the care that the elderly who have fulfilled their life's work and have the welfare community that Iceland puts first in making it possible for the elderly to live their last few years with dignity: ◯ They should remain their independence until the end, human dignity, and at a good care in a secure environment. This is the point. Older citizens have their rights. This is not always the most popular group of politicians, but it does not change the rights of these people. I'm going to hope that this time the council has a chance to accept this fine case and not push it aside, as it has been done so many times before. That's enough. The money spent in this group is well spent. They will return to themselves in a great way. Let's think about the interests of a less significant group of senior citizens. Take care of all of us. The partners of this council arrangement have a good reason. Arnardóttir Arnardóna, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gurnardótttir, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Þórunn Eglil's Egilsdóttir, and Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir. After a discussion, I recommend that the matter be referred to the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u23	Mr. President. I agree with that, the suggestion is very good, and I believe it comes out. I would like to see this agent's office become reality and agree with many statements made by the senator, including the senator. not all of us have a backyard that can support them in the complex process of dealing with the pension system that we enter as we grow older. I remind you that on the left of green, we have one good thing at the council that has not been given exactly what is right and that people can live together in nursing homes when one person has become ill and needs help and cannot be at home. As we know, there has been a general lack of opportunities for a mate to join us. Who should have an agent? Is an agent supposed to have an emissary? There's something important about the way we handle this, and there may be a problem in the system. We need to think that others are also fighting the system if we can say so. That's why I think it matters, so I ask. A senator whether he sees that we have a large number of agents, or what litigation groups does he prefer to be at home there?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for a good inquiry, and she would also like to commend her for the case she mentioned earlier, a case that her class, her left green, has suggested that people be able to live together in their later years so that married people are not being separated. That's a very good subject and that's a matter that I will definitely support here. She asks who to get an agent. In fact, no complete definition of it can really be made. The agency's standing by for us today. The thing that made the matter work was that it's a very large group and will grow quite enormous in the years that were presented in my case earlier. Tens of thousands of people will be over 67 years old after a few years. The interests of these people are great, they're people who have come to a place in life that they don't realize the changes in the system and where they're going to look. I think it's absolutely necessary that people have one saying and that's what it's all about. I'm not going to rule out that there may be needrs for more groups, not at all, but there are limits to how many agents we can have. It tells itself, but I believe that for this group it is absolutely necessary. There I speak from my own experience in which I have been handling a case for people of that age and have just realized that it is not just that these people were not aware of their rights, but it took me weeks to find out the rights of the respective members of the system. Still, I should be reasonably familiar with these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. That's the answer from a senator. You see, it can matter. In two cases, we are referring to sensitive groups that have been needed, as mentioned in the Senate talk, and will need support when they arrive in their early years. As I say, I back it up, and I thought it was a good article for the president of the older citizen's community to which he quoted. There's two things in this. The construction principle has now been provided for housing initiatives, and the underlying structure may be adapted to keep space very small. I wonder if there's at least one thing underneath it because I want to watch it so we're not cutting space down. I can think about a student apartment, but not an apartment that we want people to live in the future and be able to get service at home as long as possible. I am deeply concerned that we go into a building order and thus cut down facilities to rise up and ask the senator if he does not feel that this includes limiting the situation of older people to reduce their numbers, stay at home, etc. Then, of course, I have to ask at the end, in view of all the discussion we had here on the big business of older citizens and desperate for Christmas, who he thinks would have been the case if older citizens could have appealed to an older citizen's agent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u26	Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I don't think maybe it's right to put this completely in the context of an existing housing project. I think that the quality of life of older citizens is a very special thing, and they will be taken into account in these matters and on the sources possible for the size of an apartment house and other such. The senator wondered what the outcome of an older citizen's decision would have been if they could have appealed to an elderly agent. The agent of the elderly has no court, so that in itself he would not have come up with any conclusions in this matter, but he could have presented information about the elderly, had heard a few things about those matters at the council, very misleading statements as to the status of the elderly. It would have been good to have the agent, even though only to provide information that everyone can agree on and that they could have taken into account the discussion that took place around Christmas. He would have benefited primarily in such cases but not directly in order to state whether they should have received this percentage increase or the others as they were in the conversation before Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u27	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson's son for presenting this synoptic decree, and he certainly hopes that it will succeed. Of course, one would have wished that she and many other members of the council had become available sooner. It's a good suggestion, and you're right next door. Senator that the system is too complicated. Seeking justice is far too difficult for many. It is also true that a talk presented itself. A senator would likely become many elderly, even lose money, or lose money that is probably entitled to him because the legal environment is quite complex. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: In some rural areas in the country, the number of so - called bodies of bodies has increased after the last district elections that I think, i.e. In some rural areas, they have been established so that the elderly may be able to communicate their information in the rural areas. Counts 'em out. A senator that benefits this group of people? But as he said in his talk, he believes that that that group is increasing rapidly and shows details about it. Counts 'em out. A senator that these bodies of elders are improving?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter for the queries. There's one thing about the rights I found out when I started working on these matters for my relatives and that nothing happens automatically in the system. If you do not apply, you do not get what you are going to get out of the system. You always have to apply for everything. Nothing happens automatically. This surprised me because I thought the system was so built up that older citizens didn't have to go into lots of pages to look for some columns and forms to fill out. But that's the way it is. That's what they need to do. This really surprised me. For the body of elders, I think they're for the good. I am convinced that they will do good because they have been set up. However, I believe an agent is a more efficient form. I think of such bodies of elders that their roles may vary, they would vary in effectiveness in their work, it might take in some very long time to get a decision on the subject, etc. I don't mind them. I think they help seniors a lot. But I think an agent is a much more efficient arrangement. There would probably be a legalist with some assistant. I'm not talking about a big institution. I'm talking about a small organization that answers queries and points out a few things for the elderly who can be improved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u29	V.E.G. President. I couldn't agree more. A senator that the agent of the elderly becomes a more efficient form than the body of elders, yet he still believes that the body of elders is very well qualified to deliver and is a great deal of relief, and it is important that the voice of these individuals be heard within the administrations of rural communities, towns, and cities. But that's right. A senator says that nothing will happen on his own in this system. Too many times I've heard of people, even close to me, who's looking for their rights and getting answers to why pensions are reduced in income schedules and the like and the answers are: it's just like this. People don't have the knowledge to ask or to go further to get clearer and more specific answers, for example, why they are cutting the benefits. I think it's a very noble concierge proposal. I will certainly give her my vote, end one of her partners. Because we have another group that at times find it difficult to seek their rights, which are desperate, I would like to ask: "How would you like it? A senator if this was the agent of a pensioner? Perhaps the groups are different, despite being both in this system. Maybe it's not the same. I've been wondering if this was the agent of a pensioner, what it'd look like. But as I say, they may be different from one another anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u30	Thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter for the inquiry. We often talk about the elderly and the poor as one billion people, but these are two different groups. Although they get pensions and such, these are two different groups, different needs, etc. So in this case, I felt right to suggest that this be bound to the elderly. This does not mean that the poor don't need strong silences in the system, they really need it and they deserve it too, but in this case I thought better to take this particular group out, and then I was looking a little much at the problems they face, the problems they face when it comes to their rights. For example, people who lose a mate and who are injured may need a week or two weeks later to go on some pages of the system to look for their rights, spend days on some of those things, that's ridiculous. It's below all helms, whatever our system is, it's complicated. That's what I was looking at when I sat down for this matter, creating some system that would be so that people, older citizens, could search somewhere, get all the necessary information where they're going to look, how to fill them and the rest, and what their rights were. It can't be that complicated that we can't install such a system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u31	Mr. President. I'm just coming up here to celebrate this proposal from what happened. The senators of the Company, who present it, and I believe it is long-term. It has not been the least of it for Christmas, when we were in a cape with a retrospective payment to this group, that it might not have been bad for this group to have an agent to work on their business. Most important, I feel that this is absolutely necessary in view of the fact that the nation is growing old, as it appears here. There are many who are in dire straits from older citizens. It was also seen here before the New Year's Eve, when these cases were being discussed, that there are and over 4,000 people, older citizens, who live in poverty. They're people who hardly have anywhere to go. Now I'm not fucking with the people who are in charge of senior citizens. They are powerful people who continue to fight for the rights of their people, but they are considerably lacking. I also agree with those who have spoken here, like a why. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, asking: Do those in need also need an emissary? It's a very important question, and we should discuss here at the council because these groups of people don't have the right to negotiate and are brought up by the Council to live. As we may have seen, even though some of the two groups are not always to be questioned, a huge plaguing of the community for Christmas and for older citizens and for the sake of justice was stressed by members of the council. It was a failure, as it turned out, and nothing to do. But an agent of the elderly would be a big step. I also wondered, when you read this report and other things, that the same sort of case has been presented many times before and never has a sound foundation. I wondered why. How do we view older citizens in this country? This group is less important, and we all know it in here. We have elderly parents, relatives, and others who have nothing too good and who live in poverty. We are not offering these people a decent standard of living. It is a key to living in a society where everyone is provided for a decent standard of living. It is in all agreements that we have signed and made in writing. That's why I'm really celebrating it. I was thinking, when we were talking about this earlier, when it happened. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson here made a recommendation for the synopsis proposal, that there was a man who called me before Christmas. In fact, there were two men who called me just before Christmas, the older men, both over 80 years old, who could not even take the pleasure of buying a drug. They had some 1,660,170 yous. K. each month paid; of these, 90 measures went up. K. In rent, and then they had to try to run a car and other things. One of them experienced the avalanche on Patreck's land, where he lost his mother and brother and had been assured that he would gain strength and support from the State to start a new life elsewhere. It was all betrayed, and now he lives alone in an apartment, with virtually no means of survival. In such a country as Iceland, where one of the richest people lives, this takes more than tears. It is shameful that we should be talking about it here at the General Assembly that the older citizens of this country, the people who built this country out of a very difficult situation, about and in the middle of the last century, have to live under these circumstances. It's just fucking pre-established, isn't it? A nation of so rich in resources should not have to be involved in this, should not be able to offer their people a decent standard of living as the time of the end. So I would like to reiterate that I am very pleased with this suggestion and support it, hoping that it will succeed. Hopefully, this will get a tour and discussion on the welfare board and we'll be done here right away this spring. I'm very much in favor of the fact that every situation will get through and take over at the council, and this is one of the matters I'm going to make a success of. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u32	Mr. President. I'm just gonna come into this business because I don't agree with it. A messenger of how he feels he should handle this, i.e. that somehow you can separate the conversation and the conversation from this specific suggestion. If we establish the office of an agent of the elderly, of course we should discuss what this involves. I thought why. A senator will answer as if this should be a rather blunt party in itself; he would not pass judgment or make any decision. You see, he can give a very special decision, depending on the authority he has. Here we have an emissary of the Generals, who evaluates certain matters, and the General respects it; respecting the findings of the Allied emissary agent. That's why I asked this question about the chicken business we talked about before the season, if it hadn't been any different; I believe that older citizens had clearly sought their rights through their agent. The majority might have been reluctant to make matters their way. We're supposed to think about this in the big context. We are always wearing Band-Aids as we discuss the various subjects. So I think we should discuss it openly, when we're starting an office, what we want it to do. Hv. For example, a traveler did a fine job of reviewing certain items and cited references that have been written since 2007. The case has, for a very long time, been rolling in the system; it's, like the senator traced, not for the first, second or third time this is suggested, it's been suggested many times. But for some reason, this cannot be achieved. Then you ask yourself, " Although we're here in my smaller part to support this, what difficulty is in the system that's causing us not to make it through. ' There may be part of this, I imagine: who should have an agent? There could be a point number one, as we did only in the answers earlier, that it would have to be determined only if we agreed to set up the office of an elderly agent who is desperate, who may be fighting the system for the fleas all, and also feel entitled to such an agent. We need to be honest with ourselves and settle what has led to our failure. I agree with everything that happened to you. The last speaker, of course, owns the people we now live in did not have to evict death and should never have done. This is shown in the articles of these two women - one of them is the president of the older citizen's Union and the other was the vice president of the Society of the older citizen in Reykjavík, when it is written in 2007 - the concern is to stand open in front of institutions and authorities if the cause of abuse is in any way, inside and outside the institutions. Then, as in the first article at Margrét Margeirsdóttir's daughter, tax, and service, they are spoken of as a matter of discretion. That's why I let myself mention this earlier. Yes, we know that there is no party to take overall care of this or to guide the people inside the system. This article also refers to the pensions and matters related to them, tax issues, but also housing, the lack of services, the institutions of the elderly as well as within them, since the group may not have all the money to afford to seek the assistance of lawyers. Þórunn's article also mentions her dresser. She noted that older citizens who are looking for suitable housing are examples of a group who receive conflicting information as to what is a service apartment or a safe house and all of that. That's why I allowed myself to talk about it here in the big context because we should, to wonder what such an agent might get on board with him. It's due to them, these fine women, all right, my knowledge. Because we are already dealing with the welfare issues involved in housing, I feel that, on the basis of some of the suggestions that need to be adjusted to meet this particular group in the future. In Þórunn H. Sveinbjörnsdóttir Bear's daughter says, by permission of the President: ▪ More citizens who are looking for suitable housing are examples of a group who receive conflicting information on what is a service apartment or a security apartment and need public members, including the senior agent if we had it, to come to a solid and safe definition of these apartments. Do not buy the cat in the bag. This is what I think is very important. I also agree completely, as noted here, that we have to watch our speech, we often ask for older citizens and desperate ones. It's not the same thing. It's not the same thing. A senator came in okay. A large part of this group is incompetent, struggling with the system, and it has us as its spokesmen because it does not have a right to strike. Hence, these groups may be inclined to ask together, but of course we should not. No more than, as Þórunn H. Sveinbjörnsdóttir Bearsdóttir points out, when talking about the right patients and other situations, the elderly and the sick who stay in hospitals until nursing homes; it shows that the hospital's reperfusion problem is not limited to older citizens. It also shows that no other age group is given such consideration, viewing it as age discrimination. When we are talking about bad people, we always need to be careful that there are none of them more than in others. But I just wanted to come up here and say something about it because I think we also need to wonder why it hasn't worked out and that we have to try to figure out what this party's supposed to do; it's not just to go through a system we're not going to do. We come to the point of a legal arrangement that we are working on today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u33	A respectable president. I wanted to speak up and state a great deal of support for this suggestion. I think it's great. I think there are other groups in the community that would benefit from this if a special agent's office were available to them. I think it's worth talking about on this occasion that I think this idea is often expressed in the community because it's one agent who's done his job in a unique way, and it's the U.S. Marshal's agent. The work that has come from an office has been so dignified and repeatedly shed light on things that can be done better, often and often will result in their change for the better. This is because an agent is highly respected in the community. His work is viewed as real. That is why it is extremely important for such an office to have the trust and support and respect of those to whom their agent is assigned to help with their legal protection. But I don't think that this kind of office doesn't necessarily have to be big to be useful, especially for sensitive groups such as the elderly, the desperate, the prisoners, and other groups in the community, which are a certain tendency in our society, unfortunately, it's all too common, to think of as some kind of leftover size. I think that if this suggestion succeeds, the tendency can be greatly reduced in the first and second, reducing the effect of that tendency. Many problems are such that they only need to be pointed to and talked about to make things right, of course not by themselves; people have to do something to fix things, but there are a lot of problems that are unsolved simply because nobody talks about them or does not communicate in an efficient way. Of course, it is true that you are right. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson made an excellent point in his talk that the complexity of the system is what makes the elderly and other vulnerable groups so difficult for right protection. The manta will soon be repeated too often that my knowledge is that when sensitive groups that often do not have much between their hands find themselves in some way violated, they have to have outsiders to help them realize what their rights are and how to deal with them when something goes wrong. We can totally assume that things go wrong. No matter how impressive our institutions may be, there will always be people who work there, and there will always be people who work under the laws and regulations we put here or the highest. Government. The consequences of making mistakes are not necessarily the ones who make the rules. You can imagine the difference between feeling the consequences of your actions and not doing so. The difference is enormous. So I think it's very important that in Iceland, in general, we develop a spirit of restraint and counterargument. We need institutions that provide one another's means of life. This is a term in English, with the permission of a president, known as the families of the U.S. government, which is used in the U.S. government. I feel that we should cultivate that mental attitude and practice more in the future. We cannot trust institutions for the simple reason that they are institutions. This does not mean a fault but simply recognizes that organizations are human beings, and man is not unfailing. It is also because the management board is not a living thing and does not have feelings and does not necessarily feel it when something is wrong. It can completely lower shelters without the system, as it is called, feeling it. Then it is so important that there is a office such as an agent whom I consider to be a more suitable solution to them in order to provide them with a sense of criticism or discovery, or even some kind of decision - making authority. A general agent is an interesting agency in which an agent in itself has no legal authority. He cannot harm organizations to do anything or anything or to change anything. It is totally out of respect for his work and for that institution and history of the Agency's payments and ambitions for doing the rights that the World Council's agent has real influence. Time and again, it is important that such office be respected, financed, and the role clear, etc., and mainly that people, and especially the clients of the office, experience what is really important from an agent. That's very important. I think that the reason for the popularity of the Generals is that people experience what they care about when they decide something or say something or give a report that says something. This has real effect, even if the legal agent of the Generals has no legal authority. Once again, I declare support for this suggestion, and I have to say that there have been suggestions similar to those of other groups mentioned by an agent of refugees, an agent of immigrants, a agent of disabled persons, and so forth. All I'm trying to say is that this is considered some kind of magic solution. It may take more than simply setting up an agent's office to believe that the project is done. It must always be followed in order to ensure that a certain office is effective and if it is equipped with laws and funds and circumstances to carry out its work so that the results of the institutions are real. It is also important that the requested agent is not connected to any systems he should criticize or monitor. This does not mean that he should know not the systems he is dealing with but, above all, that these two things are separate. An agent of the Generals is one of the institutions directly under the General Assembly that do not belong to a government as an example. It's a very important position for that office, in my opinion. As a general rule, I believe that surveillance agencies should be members of the General Assembly. That in itself is not a key point, but I wanted to point out that in our little country, we have a very clear separation and the most rationality. That's all I have to say about this matter other than that I repeat my support to it again and again. I certainly hope that this fine case will be fully treated at the General Assembly, and I expect the General of the Council to agree if it reaches a later vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u34	A respectable president. I thank them. Páll Valur Björnsson's son, Berk Island, Olsen the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, and Hrafn Haffni the son of Gunnarsson, for their contributions. I can agree with almost everything they've said from this chair. There are a few things I would like to intervening on in this matter. That's right, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Since Páll Valur Björnsson's son mentioned that the elderly do not have a right to negotiate, it is important that others be able to discuss this matter. In the same way, it is true, as it were. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said that the agent does not have legal authority. Also, an agent is not a gentleman's honor. We need to be absolutely clear about that. He can make a decision on certain matters, but he is not a court of law, and he is not a gentleman's right to make it perfectly clear. Why has this matter been presented so often at the council and never made it through? I've talked to a messenger who made this case several times during the council, and the fact is, as we in this room know, that approximately 2◯3% of cases approved here at the council come from the general council, almost all cases, or 95%, coming from the government. Thus, it is often extremely difficult for members of Congress to get these things through. I think that might be one of the reasons why this case has not come through. I was told that the person I spoke to was very supportive of that bill or synonym, but that would not have been enough, since the matter had not been planned and the discussion had not finished. You're also always afraid to expand the system, to be creating one more large organization that's not what I have in mind with this suggestion. I think, like a whisk. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson rightly mentioned, that this may not necessarily be a big example, that not a lot of people have to work on it so that this can produce good results. People wonder: " How about other groups, why don't they also get an agent? Then we should be sure that we already have an agent system. We've been with an agent of debt, an agent of the children, and an agent of the Generals, so this system is with us, and it's not anything we're creating with the body of Congress here. How exactly will it be built up? This is a synonym that expects the Minister of Social Affairs to provide a bill on the subject for which the role of an agent of the elderly will be considered, so that it will be further defined. Furthermore, this can be defined by a Regulation, if necessary. The purpose of this proposal is to reroute the case, initiate it, and make sure the Minister gives a bill for the council in a short time. In the end, I want to thank you. The members of the council who came up here discussed this matter for their support. I am very pleased with this, and I hope that the matter will be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u35	Mr. President. I recommend a judicial hearing on 24 hours of mechanical ventilation in the patient's household. The parties of the proposal are, as well as the one that stands here, why. Rafney Brynjar the son of Níelsson, Arnardóttir Lára Arnardótttir, Mn Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, Liljafney Magnúsdóttir, Páll Valur Björnsson, and Sigríður Iggild, Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir. The interpretation proposal reads: ▪ The General concludes to hide a health minister to take measures to offer patients who require long-term mechanical ventilation for their endotracheal tube 24 hours of treatment in their home. It will then be used to improve equipment and assistance in daily life for patients who need extensive ventilation. In order to do this, the following actions will be taken: 1st Help in daily living at the patient's home will be provided for by qualified personnel. 2. It will be provided that patients are available for communication devices and training in their use without those who need assistance to communicate need to wait for devices or training. 3. A home should be established for a rest period of hospitalisation and a specialised staff should be put in place. The Minister of Health... appoints a preparatory group to represent a member of the Committee to Prefect the Group... two representatives of the Land Hospital and two representatives of the Patients Association. The group versus recommendations for home - service organization, household resting - time management, communication equipment, and training in their use. The Outfit shall be given proposals for February 1, 2016 That date is obviously needed to be changed, as is the date of February 3 of the United States Convention. A paper with the proposal says, with permission of the president: In patients with impaired respiratory function, life is prolonged by mechanical respirator therapy and improved quality of life. It is a matter of justice that it is possible for any Icelandic patients who need and choose long - term treatment for a respirator. All components of the treatment must be safe and effective, including repair, assistance, and equipment. In this country, the affairs of patients requiring long-term mechanical ventilation have not been sufficiently followed after the ◯ - and not sufficiently well, and the quality of life of the patients has not been as good as possible. There is a special staff card that helps the patient's home, and there is no possibility of resting that will provide special staff. The period of waiting for communication equipment is long and training in the use of it is lacking. It is then essential that one member of the management board be responsible for the services of patients who require long-term mechanical treatment to prevent inefficiency, resulting in the need for patients to consult multiple sites for their release. There is a need for improvement, and in that spirit this synopsis proposal is submitted. Daily mechanical therapy is for patients with a reduced muscle strength to breathe, but most often their lungs are free. Patients on mechanical ventilation may be required in association with various medical conditions. These include Duchenne muscle atrophy, an inherited disease that only occurs in boys. The rate is one in every 4,000 boys who contract this disease, so one child is expected to be born with the school shoe every other year in Iceland. The symptoms of the disease appear in childhood, and most are diagnosed before the age of six. Gradually, all the body's primary muscles are dwindled. The MEND disease is primarily characterised by muscle atrophy. The patient's muscle strength is paralysed and the cause of death is usually insufficient breathing. The incidence of MND averages 1.9 cases per 100,000 inhabitants per year, therefore there are about six new MND patients diagnosed annually in Iceland. The average life span without ventilation is over three years. In the Western world, there are a group of patients who were infected with polio. The aftereffects of the disease often resulted in excessive scoliosis, resulting in impaired breathing capacity later in life. These patients often have a low lung volume and because of chest wall damage they cannot breathe properly. Reduced respiratory capacity may be due to spinal cord injury. If injury occurs at the top of the neck so that your spine is damaged, your breathing muscles become paralyzed and you may become dependent on a ventilator if your spinal cord is damaged at the top. People with other conditions may also require daily mechanical treatment. Many diseases can lead to impaired breathing, although largely the lungs themselves are at ease, e.g. Spinal atrophy and various rare musculoskeletal disorders. Mr. President. In this country, there are 10◯15 people who need a respirator 24 hours a day to survive. Most important, qualified personnel are present either in a household or in a resting - place. The patient must be followed by personnel where he or she is at any time. Both possibilities must be assumed, so that the patient can be at home with 24 hours of assistance, if desired, and that the patient is in a position to be at rest where the staff also have 24 hours of follow-up. Since patients may need assistance with expression, it is very important to ensure that a communication device is offered on time and that the equipment is installed correctly. Teaching the equipment must always be part of the process and should be administered immediately following the induction. It should be noted that without help tools, the patient cannot communicate with others, whether family, friend, or staff. The equipment patients need is complex and expertise, therefore the choice, delivery, teaching, and follow-up are essential. Since the patient's circumstances may change rapidly, and so much of the time, it is vital that the equipment be available without waiting time, as well as training and close follow-up. The training program for those in the patient's care group must be organized. It is true that the National Hospital is responsible for this and that the staff of the hospital is expected to prepare and conduct the program. We can learn from other nations in these matters. Denmark has decades of daily mechanical treatment in the home of patients. The experience there is that 80◯90% of young men diagnosed with Duchenne muscle atrophy would wish for a endotracheal tube and mechanical ventilation at the time of need. A greater proportion of patients with MND are initially sleeping with external ventilation, such as sleep apnoea patients, but only 5% of them have been treated with a daily home respirator via a endotracheal tube. Usually, there are six full - time servants at any given time who need daily home - breathing machines and are considered their own professional. He advertises help and makes his own decision about working hours and when necessary. The schedule of work is usually a 24-hour shift, but sometimes shifts are shorter than 12 hours. Danish patients gain longer attention because they interfere with the home life shifts. The assistant group itself arranges a work programme in agreement with the patient, and if recent support takes place, primary education will be performed within the group. The hospital is a spare and is secure, and there are certain members that the helpers can turn to 24 hours a day. Mr. President. As I said and described at the outset, there is a parapolitic convergence on this synopsis proposal. These matters are well - known. Farmers and countries need to talk, as well as be consistent between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. It is my hope that the council proposal will get speed and progress to the moment. The welfare committee and will be approved at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u36	A respectable president. Sometimes during the seminary, an answer is a little strange because I don't have a specific question to ask. paritaprevir It's Oddný G. Harðardóttir, and I'm not going to protest any of that at all. A senator said here. However, I would like to agree with the need to resolve this proposal as soon as possible. I'd like to point out that the proposal has been waiting here since October, I think I'm right about it, and I'm not gonna, without any intention of starting evil over it, because there are other issues that are more urgent. I can't see, more dignified President, what other matters might be more urgent than the fact that this synonym has come to a committee, because here we are talking about people who are in a state of sickness and conditions that are unorthodox. Therefore, I encourage the committee to resolve this matter as soon as possible so that we can accept it here as soon as possible and that those patients who have this help will be able to get it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u37	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is true that the council proposal has been here for a long time, actually, from the beginning of the council. It was submitted in the beginning of September. But how important it is that the suggestion succeeds! Just like what? A senator pointed out that we can make up for the time that has been lost because the matter has not been established, quickly overcoming it through the council. I just hope, like what. A senator, that it will be clear that we will be able to take it through the council quickly. There is no political opposition. The point is that it is far above all political pressure, and we should unite in repairing it and not allow the patients to wait much longer under the circumstances and the quality of life that is now being offered.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u38	Mr. President. I come up here like before, to celebrate this proposal. I'm with an importer and I'm very proud of it because I believe, as has been shown in the case of the day. This is a matter of human rights. It is a matter of justice that should pass through the council very quickly. I'm saying human rights because it's 76th. The constitution clearly states that no one should suffer for his illness. Similarly, we are members of the United Nations Convention of Human Rights, which says in 25 C.E. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ Everyone has the right to the standard of living needed to protect themselves and their families. Count there are food, clothing, shelter, medical care, and necessary social service, as well as the right to safety because of unemployment, illness, disability, job loss, old age, or the lack of resources that humans cannot repair. This can't be any clearer. How amazing it is, then, that we should not long have set matters straight! As the report shows, decades of these experiences have been reported in Denmark. But I have a subtle suspicion that this is always about money, dollars and money, here in Iceland. Then I also come to the question that I've often wondered about: What kind of community do we want in Iceland? What kind of community do we want to be? Do we want to be a society that embraces all its subjects, as it is in the Constitution and human rights covenants, or do we want to separate some from her unclean children, Eva? I often wondered because it is not only about this urgent matter that we discuss here but also about disabled and cripples. We have considered their situation in Iceland many times, and they have struggled for decades to achieve their rights and to be able to live here a decent life like everyone else. It is not as if there are many involved. It's a total of 1,515 people a year, and certainly it costs money. But we should not be wondering how much it costs. We are to satisfy the needs of these people just to allow them to live with us in the community. It's just that simple. It may well be that it's irresponsible of me to say it but I mean it. It is my firm belief that we should allow nothing to happen to these conditions and the European Convention and the Constitutional Court so that everyone can live a decent life here. We talked about seniors earlier. They don't care. All of this goes hand to hand, but it always turns out that it's so expensive. And because they're so expensive, we let these people down, which is naturally pathetic and not to imitate for us as a nation. As I came in earlier in my talk about older citizens, it is prerogative that we cannot treat people who need it. I can name the MPA team, which has shown it and proves that it is an amazing step for people who need it, enabling them to live independent lives, work and rent housing, and is an active community member instead of being tied up in communities, which are certainly good for some people, that is a fact. Some people need it, but not all of them. We're not supposed to wonder about that. I have noticed the conflict between rural partners, project managers, and others involved in these matters. It is an amazing conflict, and money is always being talked about. We're not supposed to wonder about that. We are to set priorities for these people. We are to set priorities for health care and for the people who need this help. These include those requiring daily ventilation. That's why I'm very proud to be a messenger to this council-sense proposal. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir The first member of the case, Oddný Harðardóttir, is not a political debate. I think it should be possible to go through without any problems, and I hope so. I believe that it will be approved at this spring convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u39	V.E.G. President. I'd like to add a few words to a proposal for the resolution of 24 hours of mechanical ventilation in a patient's home. I'm not one of the motionfers, but I support it. Like a 1st transporterr, yo. paritaprevir For those in need of such treatment, Oddný Harðardóttir, this is a very important case. As shown in the case of what? There are not many people in this country who need a respirator 24 hours a day, but that, of course, matters for them. And just because of how small this group is, we must be able to grasp it and not just put it in proper order, as I had almost said, but in good shape. I just want to expand it, because, in some respects, only a relatively small number of people, this is a matter that I feel is so ideally used to shed light on and see how health matters are involved and, in fact, for as important as medical treatment, all of this is equally important. That is what I would like to include in this talk. In the oral answer as the highest. The health minister here asked for a question from what? paritaprevir A Harðardóttir of Oddný G. Some days ago or weeks ago, it turned out that 24 - hour service in a home requires a visit. With the permission of the president, I'm going to quote the words of the highest degree. Minister who said: The most common way in which patients are treated is personal help, which is social resources, a social service that an individual can apply for. I'd like to say a few words about this because, first of all, it's a personal help, or NPA, a test project in Iceland. It is really a service that is in the hands of the local community to provide, and only a few of the tens of long - suffering or disabled people who receive that service. So there's a little bit of good at the highest. Ministers that most often those in need of a day's service get personal help from a user. Sadly, it is only a lesser part of those who need to serve for a long time, whether 24 hours a day or something a little shorter, receiving such help. Then I come to the social context I would like to discuss here. We are often prone to discuss the issues of certain groups of people who cut their lives down to pieces and discuss their lives by means of certain factors. Of course, that's not the way people live. We all know that we do not need help that is not our life, and that is not the way the lives of others are, nor should they be, whether they are ill or disabled. That's why it's so important to put a complete stake in the matter. This is exactly an example of how it becomes crystal crystal, for there is, of course, not enough saving life or extending people's lives by providing them with access to a ventilator if there is no life associated with it. It always happens when I talk at this time of day here. That's why I just want to say now that the voice is trying to make sense to me and clearly doesn't want me to say very much about it, that it's so important to put my arms around this matter, not just from one Ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Health. I believe that this council proposal will be accepted, and that's why I want to direct it to the highest level. A health minister with this suggestion has to give the recommendations so that patients in need of long-term ventilation can be offered to make sure that the systems speak well between different treatments. This case also comes into the realm of the highest. Social and housing ministers, and it also involves local affairs. I think it is of utmost importance that the minister who makes the arrangements will have this in mind so that the lives of these patients may become overall, even though they may be severely ill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u40	V.E.G. President. I take a silent course to express my full support for this matter and thank you. transporters for providing this. Thank you. 1st Artist of Oddný G. Harðardóttir Daughter for doing so in a very good way, as well as in others. Councilmen who have discussed this matter. Of course, there is a great deal of urgency in our society when it comes to the health system, but there are many things we need. It is important that this case be done quickly. In this context, it is as if it is presented with just the support of a minister to act quickly and finish the matter because, as mentioned in the discussion, it is about improving the existing arrangement. It's a pot broken, and it's all about it, like whenever it comes to such matters, about human rights and the quality of life of those who face this serious situation. V.E.G. President. I'm stressing that the case is getting fast and fast, and that it supports my whole mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u41	Mr. President. I recommend a judicial hearing about risk assessment for tourism. The first carrier is the one that stands here, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir, and other carriers are why. Senators J. Sigfússon, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Jón Gunnarsson's son, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, Róbert Marshall, Katrín Júlíusdóttir and Sæmundsson. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide the Minister of Ministers in order to ensure that the U.S. Marshal makes a risk assessment for Iceland for tourism, after events in partnership with a travel agency, the Landsbuster Society, the EEA and other traveling agencies, security and rescue services, and nature protection. This will then be examined and determined if there are any special rules to set for travel in the areas falling into the high risk category. An article with the proposal is provided here. The controversy proposal considered earlier was brought to a Council of 143th, with representatives of all political parties at the council behind it. The proposal was taken into account on the Environment and Transport Committee that issued its requests. Twelve envelopes from various sources, somewhat dissociative of matter, but all indicate that the matter of treatment requires a solution sooner than later. The convention of 143th, a legislature, could not be completed, and was therefore restored to the 144th legislature but was not recommended at that time. Because nothing has affected the importance of tourism, the case is again submitted by members of the Parliament from all political movements at the General Assembly, as at the previous transfer. The case follows the original report, unchanged. - I'm going to go over it in part, the piece that comes with it. ▪ The aim of this council resolution is to reduce the number of accidents and failures of tourists in the wild and out of the world. This would reduce the suffering of individuals from accidents and degradation, and the cost of society and people from search and rescue. In recent years, the number of foreign tourists in Iceland has increased dramatically, and at the same time some have fallen from the usual tourist season in the summer months into the autumn and winter. Icelanders also travel through the country at all times. Summer travel is the largest, but it is also practiced in other times of the year. At the 140th legislature, as well as at the 141th legislature, a bill was moved to legalize the adjustment of the law No. 73/2005, about the order of travel, with subsequent changes that did not become legal. It was a government bill written at the Ministry of Industrial Affairs and took into account the proposal made by a committee as the then industrial minister, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, in 2010 to revise the law. Tourism and monitoring were implemented, on the other hand, for the security of tourists and for those who volunteer and take care of travel in Iceland. The safety programme also states: in comments to the bill: ▪ In recent years, a number of major accidents have occurred in the countryside. To respond to this, it is considered preferable to set up an increased safety requirements for travelers in the country. Thus, the bill outlines the duties of a person who offers trips within the country to prepare and submit to a travel agency security plan where an assessment of the risks and descriptions of how anyone thinking to respond to a potential disaster will be carried out. And further on: The advanced bill will increase the safety of tourists on organized trips within the country where the requirements for those authorized to make such trips will be increased. In some cases, the change will mean that travelers and other trespassers need to weigh the risks of their trips and provide an appropriate management plan, while many licence workers have already prepared such programs. As quoted above, the legal adjustments announced by the head of the industry's prime minister made it possible for organized travelers to take full responsibility for risk assessment. In other words, that thought is in accordance with the public rights, i.e. the right to the public is reserved for free use of land and land, for land and lakes, etc. in accordance with nature protection laws The Universal Court leads people to be permitted through the land, each individual responsible for his or her quest and the consequences it may bring. The right to free land and water is certainly very important, and it is not determined by this decree to eliminate it or to judge it, nor does it prevent people from challenging one's movements, but only knowing that there is a possibility and that necessary precautions will be taken. It is reasonable and reasonable to be able to determine whether a trip will be risky or not, to care for risk-making costs, and to make sure that the results are presented to their clients. After it became clear that the former industrial prime minister's request for a change in travel law would not be legal, however, a travel agency in May 2013 gave guidance on the safety of travelers and travel agencies. The main responsibility for the implementation of tourism is in these regulations, as they were originally set together as a procedure on the security of tourism in connection with the Industrial Minister's bill. According to the rules, tourism companies are encouraged to do a safety plan, prepare written risk assessment for each trip, set written protocols on the performance of the service, prepare a management plan, and maintain an event report on all accidents, accidents and accidents that could have led to an accident or accident. This will describe the requirements for education and training of guides on different trips and on different locations. The package leaflets of the rules describe the course for which guide and guide should be completed in order to accept guidance in various types of travel. Gives this some idea of the measures most likely to be used to increase the safety of tourists on organized international trips. Based on Iceland's global status, nature and climate and the fact that there are significant accidents in tourism in the country and the cost and risks of a search and rescue expedition in the wild, there seems to be good reason for making a risk assessment for travel in the rural Iceland where the key risk factors for such trips will be drawn up and evaluated. As noted in the proposal, risk assessment may lead to the setting of travel rules at the sites that meet the high risk category and meet specific criteria. Such rules are in place in some places where circumstances demand it, such as in vast deserts in Greenland and Svalbard, where there is inaccessible and rough weather, there is a well - built bed, and natural life is probably devastating and sensitive to disturbance. Tourists who are planning to travel to Svalbard must inform the government of Svalbard's movements and make bail. At the end, I would like to refer to a magazine article written on January 24, 2016. The Árni of Tryggvason, a television guide, wrote a very extensive article, and its headline is: Is tourists sacrificing? According to the Árni Tryggvason, tourism companies are in danger of their clients with total non-subsidies. Among other things, he says, by permission of a president: It also puts a great deal of ambition into staff training, security standards, and response plans. The sink, which is the quality and environment structure of the tourism service, is the guide of these enterprises in planning security criteria for their movements. Most of the most ambitious companies in the tourism industry are participants in the Vatican, and a group of companies and partners are involved in an assessment process to meet the criteria for being valid there. [...] Also, a travel agency has published ▪ Guidelined rules on the safety of travelers and tourism. He also says: So here we have enough guidelines to make sure that our most valuable passengers are safe, which, of course, is likely because the article is sensitive and is not allowed to suffer because of some sort of neglect. As a result, responsible tourism companies have agreed on safety criteria to be sufficient for humans to know what is safe to do. In that case, a reasonable addition is necessary to make things okay. But then he says: ▪ Now I'm getting to the core of the situation, but there are those companies in tourism who ignore all the premium safety precautions for a number of trips, despite the appearance of the surface. These companies usually have good cars and perform good service. Even good drivers are well - equipped drivers in their ministry, and safe drivers handle the driving. The reason I decided to express myself on these issues is the danger that all too many of these enterprises are leading their clients into entirely unsubstantiated fjords. He calls attention to many things under these headlines: "What does it take to make the safety safe? " ▪ In a danger zone without equipment or training Of course, if people are not prepared as they should, they are headed for such dangerous trips. One of the headlines is: ▪ With tourists in a rift area We know, as our glaciers are at a particular time of year, that they can be extremely dangerous, and they can not be left alone. Risk assessment is very effective in those areas, in areas where there is easy to get lost, and in dangerous areas where there is rift and heavy movement on the glaciers. A writer suggests that a guide has been lost on a tour, and the company has been judged by an accident on a venture. I wanted to refer to this article in the Árni Tryggvason son of a human guide to support my feelings of urgency. This is the third time she's put forth by members of all groups, and I'm counting on her to be taken care of because it's long since it's time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u42	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a resolution on a day dedicated to the education of children's human rights. The movers with me are a spokesman for the children of the Council, and that's why. The members of the assembly, Valeger Bjarnadóttir, Karl Garðarsson, Bjarkey Olsen, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, Elín Hirst, and Birgitta's Jónsdóttir. This suggested note: The General concluded to hide the Minister of Ministers in consultation with the Ministry of Education and Culture to promote that November 20th, the date adopted by the Children's Club will each year be devoted to education on children's human rights in the schools of the country. This was so, as the report shows, that the proposal was submitted to the last Parliament, the 144th legislature, 397th matter, and thus is reimbursed. Unfortunately, the case went above and below the last spring at the end of the council, but it had been well discussed in the General and Education Committee, and everyone agreed with this, both Ministers and most members of Congress, I think. No one had anything to do with this. I'm going to read the report, with permission from the President: ▪ The United Nations Convention on Child Rights, the Children's Covenant, as it is commonly called, was adopted at the UN General Assembly on November 20, 1989. It was signed for Iceland in 1990 and validated in 1992. The covenant reveals a new view of the social status of children. It defines children as a vulnerable group with a special need for protection and care. At the same time, the Treaty assumes that children are valid and qualified individuals who have attitudes and experiences that include valuable things for society. What a joy it was when the Allied Council decided to legalize the children's covenant in February 2013, according to the law of No. 19/2013, the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. Iceland has thus clearly accepted the treaty, but its legalisation includes a clear definition of priorities in regard to the rights of children. According to the children's covenant, Member States should actively present their contents to children as well as to adults. The fundamental premise for the entry of the covenant is that people, children and adults, know the rights of children and can relate them to everyday living and work. One of the main challenges we face in Iceland is to increase our knowledge of the contents of the children's covenant. Children's surveys show that Icelandic children have limited knowledge of their rights and a certain tendency to confuse fundamental concepts such as ◯ Preservations (U.S. For adults and children to have meaningful discussions about human rights on equal terms there is a need for more progressive instruction. One of the most important steps is to create a discussion of rights and to teach individuals about the manifestation of rights in everyday life. Thus, we make children aware of their rights and make them understand that others have the same rights. On November 20, 2014, the 25 - year anniversary of the children's covenant was celebrated, and in view of this momentous milestone, it is important to give children's rights an added meaning. - It may be that those who are transporters are advocates of children appointed on this date, 2014. It is therefore suggested that the Council of State and Education and Cultures decide to hide the local Ministers and Ministers of Education for the purpose that the date of the Children's Club was adopted, November 20, to be dedicated each year to the education of children's rights in the schools of the country. A special educational day of child rights is an important step toward increasing the knowledge of children of their rights. In this regard, it can also be noted that in 2005, all members of the United Nations, including Iceland, agreed to promote the teaching of human rights in schools. In 2008, new school, elementary school, and high school laws were adopted at the General Assembly, and new primary schools were adopted in 2011. The primary study should be a firm box around the school work, a full view of education, and a further application of the law's educational policies. The primary school education program is based on six basics of education. These basic factors are read, sustainable, health and well - being, democracy and human rights, equality and creation. In addition to being based on basic school law, the main textbook on various other laws and international agreements, including the children's covenant, is the law. It would be good for school lawmakers and primary seminars to give child - rights greater weight and to keep a day of education on the human rights of children each year, on the 20th of November, on the day of the convention of the children's children. I certainly hope this case has a course now at the spring council and it will be approved. There was no objection to this when it was discussed during the last assembly and many who welcomed it. I'd also like to mention in this connection that I've provided a bill to correct the adjustment of the law on elementary school. There I'd like to change the subject and add the word "human rights." Many people may think that it is enough, but I think that there has never been a greater need to teach children and the public, in fact, about human rights today. I have personally experienced as a teacher, as shown in the report, that children are not aware of human rights and are simply not aware of what that means. In fact, there are so many other things in school when you talk about the focus, about creating a community that is characterized by cooperation, cohesion, love, and friendship. Education is naturally about creating people who are willing to live in human society for the benefit of themselves and others, especially others. [[Up front.]] It is one of the things that sometimes wants to be forgotten that it is the key to a good society that people work together for each other. A big part is to teach children about their human rights. In fact, I believe, quite strongly, in the belief, that much more is involved in community education in schools. For example, during community education there may be an even greater emphasis on ethics and moral messages in order to provide for the nation's benefit that they are ready to face the tragedy, as we have experienced. In recent years, we have seen that since 2008 there has been a moral breakdown in society and each one's scraping off another's shoes, and a great deal of confusion and anger. This does not have a good effect on children, for children hear what is going on around them and are very sensitive to their circumstances. Mr. President. I'd like to finally say that I hope that this sort of thing, like the ones that have been delivered and discussed, all the best things, get paid and shoot in spring. For example, it would not have to take long to discuss this matter, since it has been discussed over and over again. I hope that all of these cases will be decommissioned in spring and this proposal will be taken care of so that the next autumn will be fixed in school that November 20 is a day devoted to the human rights of children and human rights of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson is very grateful that he is the 1st traveller of this matter, and he also thanks him for bringing my attention to the matter so that I could be a mediator, I am very content with it. Here at the Council is active, as he said, a group of members who have the main responsibility of caring for matters related to children and young people. One of the things we believe is that while many things are taking place - and tomorrow there will be a special discussion of the status of children in the community - that is exactly what is presented in a judicial arrangement. A senator, that the children be instructed about their rights. This plagion proposal is parapolitic, and all who are in the community agree that it is essential for a child - so as to be able to stand by itself and report if it is not all right - that it knows what right it has. This court is very clear, according to the United Nations Children's Covenant. How important it is, then, that we accept this at this assembly so that it can be started immediately in the winter of November 20, that on this day children will receive instruction on their rights under the United Nations Children's Covenant.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter, taking his heart with her. As she's seen, I sure hope it's accepted. That's right, as a matter of fact. One senator noted that it is very important for children to know and know their rights. And not only they, but this may also be a point in school because there is not necessarily so much discussion in school. We stress that children may be able to calculate, but as I mentioned earlier in my speech, I have high hopes that social instruction will be increased. Teaching children their rights and where they stand is part of this community class. We know, as the UNICEF report shows, as we do. A senator mentioned earlier that more than 6,000 children have a significant shortage in Iceland, which is quite different. It tells us that in many areas a pot is broken. Although I don't want to blame schools, they're some of the most important institutions in the country to find out where a pot is broken with children. Teachers who do their best to care for their students, as their job descriptions and ethics tell them to see it right away. They should be able to intervene and tell children what their rights are, where they can search, and where they can give them all the help a teacher can give them. The teachers'work is more than just teaching; if it is done, it is so extensive. I view the teaching work as a key work in children, both play - school teacher and teacher. You can see where the depression is. I say it, and I agree with what. Hirst Elín far as I'm concerned, we, children's spokesmen, have been doing well in the less than two years of our lives and have been trying everything we can to draw attention to the circumstances of children and what can be done better. I'm about to find this conclusion that I believe it will be a very important step toward getting children to know their rights and not just their children but all who work around them, adults and teachers in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u45	A respectable president. Yes, it's a matter called a Senate case, but at the High Council it seems that most of the cases, or more than 90% and even more, are government issues. So it is extremely unlikely that such matters as this, a case presented by a senator, or a case I will address below, will be fulfilled. I believe it is a poem of the work here at the high Council and would like to present it. For children's human rights, like what? paritaprevir Páll Björnsson took steps, and it is important not only for the children but also for the parents and for the whole community to know that we have signed a United Nations Child Treaty, where children are guaranteed rights for their lives and quality of life. It is very important for children to know for themselves that they have this right. For example, this is especially fitting in the course of my own party, the Independence Party, where we are fighting for individual freedom. This is exactly what we are doing with these young ones, who know that they have their own right and can do something if they are wrong and sought help.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u46	Mr. President. Yeah, I'll take my heart to it. A senator says. What she first mentioned, in her later answer, was what the situation was like in the General Assembly, in terms of Congress, and how the program we've seen in the autumn has developed. As I said before today, there are eight or nine senators being put in motion, I'm not quite clear about how many they are; all of them very good and against matters that are designed to change society for the better and are all in favor of the public good. I'm not saying that the cases that have been presented aren't, but I wondered that here in the autumn months, the council was almost inactive. It was not a matter of Congress for weeks and months, the so - called drinking bill held the council hostage, and many ills, which made it impossible for us to talk about it. All these matters could have been measured early in the fall, they were all ready at the time, and they could have been taken care of. I agree with what. Senator, there's a terrible situation in these matters. Most of the cases that go through and are approved are government issues, perhaps that is the nature of the case. But when such cases are presented, which are parapolitic - there are members of all classes on these matters - this should not be a problem. This should only be on the schedule first and in order to make these matters go through. But they may be recommended, and then they end up inside a committee, and this year's order is being given instead of taking it into the council and into committees to vote for them. That's the democratic scene. This is a democracies either to agree or to fail.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u47	Mr. President. I'm just gonna take part in the discussion. I am also one of children's spokesmen, and I am proud to be allowed to fill that group. I agree with what. 1 strategist that this is something we try to promote as often as possible. In this context, it is worth a reminder of a special discussion that will be presented in the morning on the UNICEF report on child rights that appeared during the dawns, and received a half-hour discussion tomorrow, may need considerably more, but she gets it at least and is very good. This was about to end up talking about what language will enter the council and how it will all be. I'm on the committee that gets this case, I think it's going to the General and Education Committee. I'm going to propose that the case doesn't come up with any comment. It was sent out for review when it was recommended last time. Reports came from sources that have been dedicated to the human rights of children and involved in these matters. They're all positive, as a means of understanding. I don't think there's any reason why we send the case out again, in a matter of six months apart, of this kind, that one day a year is dedicated to some particular kind of education. We're just supposed to do it fast and well on the committee, get it back into the council and finish it. That's my opinion. I hope the other transporters agree with me. I'll at least discuss it with those who don't hear this, and here's 1st transporterr. We've only talked about what it's all about. As a teacher, I often heard that my children knew all about their rights and not their duties. For one thing, it is about teaching children about their rights and responsibilities, what privileges are, and what rights are. Of course, it is very important that adults also receive such instruction about the European Convention and the United Nations Children's Convention on Human Rights to have upbuilding conversation, although you may be able to do so without knowing these contracts, with young people, but it is important to do so. The review of the Children's Childhood Committee of the United Nations, which supervises the children's covenant, highlights the presentation and education of the Convention, both to children and to adults. Of course, it is fundamental that in order to exercise justice and to respect them, and to know the rights of others, all individuals need to know and know their own rights. The fact that children know about their rights also gives them greater opportunity to understand this limit. And we naturally want to increase the likelihood that children and young people will respect the community and rights of others so that they can spread to all. Young ones, when it comes to caring for us, often provide us with good care. What may also be the emphasis on the instruction under which to be under, i.e. That children and young people know their rights or receive this human rights education is that it can, in fact, help them to understand if they are violated and dealt with, whether they are in the form of calling for help or some kind of help in the way that their rights are met. According to the Children's History, human rights education is a preventive measure in itself. If children live with righteousness and welfare, they are more likely to respect the rights of others. It is pointed out that adults too need such training. Thus, when it comes to education, everyone who sent in reviews of the matter rejoiced and, of course, hope that the matter will be resolved. It's on the 12th floor. The contract that deals with understanding their status and rights as a young person in the community. But in their reviews, everyone holds out that adults also receive such instruction. Then we need to keep in mind that even if one day is meant for instruction - we have a variety of such days, a day of Icelandic language, a day of nature, etc., all of this is a good time to get it in and it is not difficult to get it in there, and certainly just interesting and enjoyable in school activities. But I think we have to keep in mind that this must not be this one day and so on, i.e. once a year. It is very important that it is at all times, not just in the school system and not just with parents, but with all those who are working with young people, children and young people, that they, of course, need this kind of instruction, especially those who may be working in the public, rural, or state, and who have children to be educated so that we can be sure of the environment we trust with our children. I really believe that, because I'm not sure that this is read at all the places it should be read, that at least that day like that would call attention to the fact that this was being done, and we who are sitting in the World Council can then encourage a discussion of this particular day and call attention to him and try to support him and carry out the message. Mr. President. I'm not gonna have this any further. I'm happy with the proposal, but I'm thinking about suggesting what I said before that the case goes fast and through the committee and gets a quick release, because it's not a case to be in the system because other cases have been before or something like that, but primarily because it's paradox and it's not supposed to be involved with anyone and it should be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u48	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to be legal on behalf of what? A deputy member of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, is now a substitute. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir. Transporters are down. The men of Bjöln the Leví of Gunnarsson, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, Helgi the Hrafn of Gunnarsson, who stands here, Sigríður Ingibjörg, the daughter of Ingadóttir, and Bjarkey Olsen, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir. The bill in itself is simple and insists that laws about 40 hours of work week become laws of about 35 hours of work. The bill was submitted to the 144th legislature. The bill was not then recommended, so it is submitted again. The bill includes the change that there should be no more than 35 day hours to work in the day - to - day work period on weekdays and typically seven hours per day from Monday to Friday. Despite the number of hours spent each year in recent years, the average workweek in Iceland is about 40 hours. The reports of OECD, which measure the balance between work and leisure time, show that Iceland is a very bad country, a 27th of 36 nations. However, the overall work period over the year is just below the average OECDland average. One of the main reasons for Iceland's failure to get into the OCEDland work programme is that Icelanders work long hours but the overall work hours remain relatively low because of further leave. However, the overall work period is about 500 hours longer than in the Germans with the shortest hours of work and more than 400 hours longer than in the Dutch, who have the secondest working time. The suggestion would reduce the total work hours about 230 hours a year, which would move Iceland to the 10th place, next to Sweden, which is moving toward a six - hour work day. Iceland production is an average of the countries of OECD. France, which has had a 35 - hour workweek since 2000, has significantly higher productions than is in Iceland, and the country is much higher in regard for balance between work and leisure time. Denmark, Spain, Belgium, the Netherlands and Norway are at the top of this list, where work time is shorter than in Iceland, but production is higher. In all these lands, a higher salary is paid, except in Spain. Therefore, no more produce or higher salary can be explained by a long day of work. On the contrary, there is evidence that shorter working days lead to greater production and increased quality of life. The bill indicates that general work time is reduced by one hour per day, i.e. from eight hours to seven. The problem, however, is that of a much more radical change. Sweden is experimenting with six hours of work, and recently sexist Thomas Brorsen Smidt presented ideas for four hours of work. The aim of the change is not to be cut off from abbreviated dayday, and workday is not expected to be automatically reduced by this change. Laws about 40 hours of work were passed in 1971, the first time in 2012, the average week of work was 40 hours. The aim of this adjustment is to increase the targeted production and quality of life of workers in Iceland, but, as reports OECD have shown, more time and more production do not necessarily exist. A respectable president. I suggest that the case be discussed on the job committee and through 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u49	Mr. President. Thank you for this bill. It is really interesting and interesting and I would have wanted to see it earlier, after living in this country and living in an Icelandic labour market for over 40 years. Still, I wondered if this is possible in Iceland. In a fish industry where I know my way of life, people just don't live on it. Although it takes eight hours a day, it is not always easy to live on. While it may be possible that abbreviated day's workday should not be affected or elected, I am afraid that this would be the first thing that would happen if set in motion. Of course, the pay would be impaired, and they are not high. I'd like to ask the senator if I'm not going to extend the discussion. I have lived in that country for 54 years and have experienced what it's like to be in a workforce. When I was in this sector, e.g. Fishing, I just had to work a little more than 10 to 15 hours a day in order to support myself and my family. I wondered, " How are people going to survive 35 hours of working week in fish or service where there is a shameful amount of pay? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u50	A respectable president. I have to say, as it is, in order to answer with some evidence, I would need to see the subject in a committee that answers questions about certain jobs as well as a certain salary in a particular profession is best answered. However, I do not fear that long term pay will be impaired, and that is not the goal of the bill. It seems that there is always a need to work as hard as we do at any given time. However, according to the story I found when looking for evidence on this case, the fact is that eight hours of work wasn't calculated as having eight hours a day, getting the best pay, or that way people would have. It was simply a matter of 24 hours in the day, and people had to work very hard to get in and out, and then it came up at its time, good if it wasn't at the end of the 19th century without me afraid to claim it, to be divided into three, eight hours before sleep, eight hours before a game, eight hours for work. That exchange was not made in any scientific way. Therefore, I don't think there's any more reason to think that you could survive an eight-hour day of work than anything else. I think the development of pay will always take into account the environment. As an example, it has always been predicted that high rates of taxes would automatically lead to unemployment. It's not an attempt. This is because the economy is developing, the economy responds to such changes. I don't think there's anything like cutting a day's work and paying a lower salary. I can't believe that for a long time it would be evolution, perhaps less than a short time, but it's something that would need to be discussed on a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u51	A respectable president. The synoptic proposal that I now recommend for a North Sea acidification strategy was set forward here during the first days of the Council in the fall, in September. This is the first time that the matter will be considered, and it is February. As I said before, I do not believe it to be our high council to further the matter that the senators give so little leeway to the council program because I believe that these issues are often of great importance. This particular matter is a matter that I would have thought would not be too waiting, but the time has passed since we made the decision, I and 30 other members of the council, and until the case is scheduled. In the matter of itself. According to many scientists, Iceland is in the worst possible place in the face of ocean acidification and there is very little research here on its consequences. The acidification of the sea is, in fact, a codfish of climate change and emissions of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. As such trends have already affected the environment and will have serious consequences on the marine ecosystem, they may have harmful effects on the livelihood of millions of people who rely on sea routes, especially those of Iceland who rely on seafood to such extent. The acidification of the sea is a result of increased carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, while about one third of the carbon dioxide that has been released into the atmosphere since industrialization has ended in the ocean. Thus the oceans have limited man - made greenhouse effect, but the result is the change in non-organic carbon balance. Only over a decade ago it has been apparent that significant environmental changes could affect marine life. Among other things, long - term measurements of the non-organic carbon facility in Iceland helped to inform us of these changes, one of a few rows that cover more than three decades in advance. The scale of the National Marine Research Institute in the United States clearly shows that the sea is becoming acidic and that the sea is shrinking desalination. Calcium saturation is an important environmental factor for paracalcosing species in the ocean, such as shrimp and more crabs; sandwiches such as mussels, snails; such as bait, scratches; and starfish. The number of species that serve an important part of the ocean's food chain is part of these groups, such as food, and they are important food for various crops in Iceland's economic legal history. The economic impact of acidification is already under way on the western coast of the United States, where we have been seriously damaged by oyster fire. This is because little lime saturation caused oyster worms to not be able to form shells and suffer great losses. Thus, the United States government has increasingly supported the study of acidification by various institutions. The sea north of Iceland is fast compared to the seaside of the Atlantic Ocean, which is mainly explained by low temperature. It is difficult to estimate the consequences of this trend in the marine ecosystem, since no research is carried out on the species in relation to the acidification of the sea. Thus, the economic impact of acidification in Iceland is unknown at all. A special situation must be set up that allows research on the effects of acidification on organisms that serve an important role in the marine ecosystem. Such a situation is essential for scientists to draw financial support from the regional and international competitive funds. The basis for a country's experimental status is already available for the Southnes'Knowledge Centre in Sanding, but further structure is needed to use the facilities to recognizable research on the effects of acidification. The possibility of using other means of researching the impacts of acidification on the environment of Iceland, e.g. by inspecting natural phenomena such as marine carbon dioxide. The main causes of acidification are the emissions of carbon dioxide, mainly due to man's use of fossil fuels. And we always come to the same thing. Because predictions indicate that there will be a high impact in this country, Icelanders should take the lead in this matter. We have a unique opportunity to take up the discussion in this matter and to put forth effort to shape a future policy in both the Arctic Council and the international.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u52	A respectable president. I welcome this council plan, like most people who have been delivered today. I think it's a very important thing, and it's the natural thing about its transporters. They are 23 members of each category who tell us how important the matter is and how urgent it is to put it into action as soon as possible. I agree with what. paritaprevir IElín Hirst it could've been done much earlier. The acidification of the oceans, as indicated in the report, is not necessarily due to carbon dioxide emissions and man's use of fossil fuels. In recent years, we know what's happening in politics, and we watch that interest in North Poles has grown tremendously, and people live with great and large ideas about the shipping route north of the North Pole, through the North Pole, and that traffic all goes through here. We can imagine if the currently abundant carbon dioxide emissions are already causing the acidification of the oceans what it will be if the voyage is expected to be the way it is going to be. Already there is great interest in further cruises up along the eastern coast of Greenland, and traffic is going to increase dramatically. I believe this matter should be stressed and discussed much more during Congress and in society than is being done. The climate is the main and most important issues of the day. I'd also like to mention, because we're involved, that we have a lot of potential for acting on these issues and in the future policy of the Arctic Council and internationally. I'm in the Western Council that held a theme conference this weekend, which actually discussed democracy in the North, but last night the head of Iceland said, "Wow." paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdóttir, for a proposal to evangelize with Greenland and the Faeroe Islands on the seabed. Among other things, there is a potential for cooperation in the seas and the state of the environment and sustainableity. We were visiting Southnes'Knowledge site on Thursday, where members of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland were introduced to the activity there. They were truly happy and interested in her, making it clear that they were willing to cooperate much more. Sure, it's all gonna cost money like that, as usual, but there's a chance that the Greenland and the Faeroes can come in with money like this, I say. It's extremely important for us, these three nations in the Western Americas, to stick together in this. Our most important common resource has begun. Everybody knows that more than 90% of Greenland and the Faeroe Islands are marine products and about 40% from us. Although the use of mining and oil work in Greenland is still on hold, they are very concerned about their resources and are about to begin, because it is a life - style. The marine road keeps these nations alive, and we have to look for all the ways to prevent this from entering the power of the freckles and greed of big corporations, which are seeking resources in the North Sea and that nothing will be done except in full agreement with local inhabitants, I don't talk about natives. This is of utmost importance, as shown in this synopsis proposal. We have the situation. We can add them, and we can add to them, and we can expand our cooperation with neighboring nations. I suggest that there be among other things there will be discussions with both the Faeroese and the Greenlandan because their interest is truly there, as I have said. It's our common resource in the North, and we have to take good care of it and leave no safe place to get all the professional information about the state of life in the seas around our countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u53	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a resolution on the prohibition on the use of tyre rubber barrels in playgrounds and stadiums, where the Council finds out to hide at the highest level. Environmental and resource minister setting a ban on tymps from tyres in playgrounds and stadiums. A minister, following a program aimed at replacing a tire-based rubber barrel with the dangerous materials in the playing and sports fields where it can be found. The work will be completed by the end of 2016. The importers of the proposal, along with those here, are listed as dogs. Councilmen: Friðriksson Daðason, Sigurjónsson Sigránsson, Líneik Gunnarsson Valgerður, Oddný Árnadóttir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, Þorsteinn, Vigðídótir Huksson, Vigdís Ríkharðsdóttir, Jóttir Ragnheiður, Jótir Gjörn, Þynnu, Gjörnjörnótir Valur, Jónsdóttir Gjörnótir, Kristján L., and Björnsson. Thanks to the interpolitic support given to the subject and to the discussion. I will support the report and discussion given at the General Assembly at the end of November last year. This arrangement of interpretation is intended to provide as rapidly as possible for the use of toxic and potentially hazardous substances in areas that include the health of the environment. magazines are designed for the sports industry of young people. According to the movers' opinion, this action is urgent without delay to end unjustly that the health and safety of children are at risk while there is conclusive evidence of harm to the substances. A discussion of typhus and its impact on the environment and health and safety of children has been reported from the 2010 Medical Association of Iceland. The tymps of tires have been used as a filler in local playgrounds and sports areas, especially in artificial grass fields for soccer purposes, and for several years. Thus, a significant debate was made about the possible harm to this plant following the Iceland Medical Association's resolution to the main meeting in October 2010, where governments were challenged to forbid the use of the material in sports and game areas where it included carcinogenic substances and other toxic compounds. In response to the highest possible response. Environment Minister on request by Friðleifsdóttir Fräuleind for use of rubber jar at the 139th legislature Council to suggest that a minister would appeal to the EEA to state recommendations to try to use other materials in the preparation of new play and sports options and re-renewing old ones. Such recommendations have proved to be effective in Sweden and Norway. For example, the use of such defects decreased from 91% of such selections to 40% over a four year period in Sweden. But some parts failed to follow, and it fell down until the morning issue published an article by Ásdís Ásgeirsdóttir, under the heading ▪ Not all of us have fallen to the grave, on September 13, during the past year. It called attention to the fact that during the past five years, little had changed. pointed out that tyres were on IR's satellite field, which was only five years old. At the same time, there were cases from the United States that supported theories on the destructive effects of typhus on health. Following the publication of this article, an online pressure group was established that scorees in Reykjavíkurburg to clean up the city's artificial grass field from tires. Thinks it's a group of over 1,000 people. A meeting in Frostská, September 27, last, was held by the group that made clear the will of the parents of the children who regularly practice sports in the districts and worries. They require action. On the same day, the government of home and school, the parents'national organization, issued a decree asking that our rural communities immediately reinvigorate the choice of a health - related tire jacket so that our children can play and exercise their skills safely and in the state of health, as it stands, a respectable president. According to a report by the previously mentioned Medical Association of Iceland from 2010, among typhoid materials is found to be carcinogenic, and that ditexhexhexhexphthalate and butylbenzylphthalate - I would like to excuse it here, Mr. President, if I do not completely agree with the development of these complex combinations - it can cause infertility, and it is also referred to as a phenol that is collected in nature and can have the long-term effect on it, zinc which in certain cases is toxic to organisms and lead that cause infertility and damage to the nervous system. Children are particularly susceptible to the effects of lead. The medical journal followed this conclusion by an interview with her storyteller, Þórarinn Guðnason, a cardiologist and a former medical treatment group in Iceland. Among other things, the Þórarinn said: In the tyre is a cancerous substance and other toxins that can be dangerous for children and other practicers sports in artificial grass fields. In many of our neighboring countries, the use of typhus is recommended to be restricted by these chemicals. There are such limitations in Germany and Sweden. Norwegians have investigated quite a bit, pointing out the risk of environmental impacts from the plant in the neighbouring area of artificial grass. It is acknowledged that bibbblades have various toxins that will be treated with care. There are clear rules for handling and disposal of damaged tires, but once the tires are scoured down and distributed in the sports field of children and adolescents, the rules are not set. Yet, it is clear that the toxins have a much easier way to get into the environment from the tyre than they are tied in the brain of a tire. The Þórarinn addressed a meeting of the former residents in Frost's Bay, where he repeated this earlier statement and gave a detailed summary of the toxic materials that are indisputably found in a tyre rubber plate. The need for action can be found in the highest response. Environment Minister to ask Friðleifsdóttir Fräuleind's daughter for the 139th Actor's rubber jar of tyres. The movers disagree with the approach that there is no need for immediate action and that children should enjoy the doubt that the damage to the typhus. This may be the point, for it should repeatedly be noted that there are no damage studies or the long - term long - term survival of tyres, but it is not possible to justify taking this risk in order to save money when it comes to health of children and young people. Experience has shown that this case has to be handled. I count the discussion that was here five years ago of the good stuff. It sprang forward following this conclusion and contributes to a conscious awakening, but little has been achieved in this regard. But I believe, more dignified President, that our rural society is responding to many countries and trying to replace them. A minister's wish to recommend the use of materials other than tyres in playgrounds is also of limited success and is still being used for the development of new options. I can quote here in a recent newspaper article that was being added to a tyre. Then I refer to a newspaper article on the morning Web site from January 27, where the headline is: ▪ The Devil is used contrary to his decision. The case was taken up here during a discussion at the General Assembly of November 30, the last year at the highest level. The Environment and Resource Minister was there to answer. There, U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A. Minister to minister, including that the Ministry had assigned the EEA to examine these matters based on the discussion that had been conducted. At that point, it would have been found, among other things, that hazardous chemicals could potentially penetrate the environment in some quantity of water from the roads. I think it may be necessary to further investigate the presence of appropriate pollution and drainage systems and any longer impact on the environment could be possible if not. For the regulations relevant to this reference. Secretary of Regulation No. 888/2015, on registration, assessment and license control and limitation of content use. In line with their limitations, the use of tyres in sports fields should be used. I think that would be a good thing for you to do. The Environment and Transport Committee to implement information like this. For the monitoring of rubber barrels, a project was planned to be started in cooperation with the Iceland's Knatt Sterogen Association in January as a chemical analysis of the rubber barrel. At that time, the health-care committees have information and observation requirements on the need to protect health and environment as well as to the public and the EEA. That's how a lot of people come to this. In October 2011, this case was specifically held at a meeting by the National Health Organization, the Environment Agency, Food Institute, the European Union of rural society, the Ministry of Environment and the Marine Department. There was a medical check-up and what to do on air quality, disinfection, and cleaning when using a rubber disc in games and sports areas. Thus the discussion has induced a reaction. I've already mentioned the work of the EEA and the game relationship's Knattt. The EEA then aims to see if there are rules on the use of materials in playgrounds and sports fields. Then local health committees have made further demands on exposure to artificial grass areas aimed at increasing the safety and loyalty of practicers, coaches, and viewers. As a result, it is important to draw out which avenues have actually been taken, so these matters have truly been handled by people. I'm referring it to what. Environmental and Transport Committees to investigate the issues and how they have acted. All of this said, "sumble." Transporters of the Parliament's odor proposal show the need to take the step to the full and immediately ban the continuation of the distribution of rubber barrels from tyres in the local game and sports zone and to begin directly following a planned schedule. V.E.G. So during a discussion here at the end of October last year, a minister promised to follow through on this matter. I believe the proposal will support the highest. A minister in completing this strategy successfully and in cooperation with the partner of the partner and in the immediate continuation of work to replace the material with other dangers. This council proposal and coverage at the moment. The Environment and Transport Committee is designed to support this issue and to make a successful decision in the matter and to ensure those who practice game and sports on the market, especially our children, as the most secure and wholesome environment. At the end, I want to show that the health and environment effects of typhus have been studied in many places. Since I have been looking for information, there has been no conclusive evidence of the damage to tyres or its long - term health or environment, but research is now under way. I refer to a three-year study in California, a state state state of state, and I have it confirmed by a news editor in fact, ESPN, trying to further investigate the long-term effects of this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u54	President. Thank you. A senator of history and this very interesting subject. As it happens, the person we have here is a bit of an issue in which the Environment Minister here goes to the various committees of this report. Is everything true and true as follows regarding my approach to the case back then. I believe that there is good reason for the issue to be made in such a way as to deepen the discussion at the council and that it is not sufficient to discuss the health benefits of the children's being left unconcerned. So I support the basic idea of it. The senator and the officials listed on this matter. I'd like to ask you what. First of all: Is there sufficient evidence available for a minister to issue a prohibition on the use of rubber leaks? Does legal support need, or is there any way necessary to refer, or am I being changed by the committee's Regulation 888/2015? Second, I'd like to ask what. A senator because the wording of the proposal is a little vague whether it is intended for a minister to submit the plan before 2016 or whether the project should be completed prior to 2016. I'll make this work in my first answer and have one question for the good in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u55	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir and former U.S.A. ex-Environment and resource minister for Hv. A senator and a Siv. paritaprevir Siv Friðleifsdóttir discussed the matter from a question. paritaprevir The daughter of Friðleifsdóttir in her own time. It supported the situation that got more attention. It's supposed to be a celebration. I'd like to say so too, tops. Mr President, I've been given very good support and guidance from what happened. Svandís Svavarsdóttir's trouble about how to proceed. This is certainly not an easy case, and it is related to my answer to the first question about whether it can directly be published without a rule, since it is not forbidden to import. This is not clear, and now I quote the discussion that took place here on October 30, last year, at the highest level. Minister, and must be consulted in the context of existing regulations. Because of what? One senator asked me so plainly, and this case came up and was one of the questions asked by the minister. After going into this very important Regulation and its annex, I can't answer it right now, but I suppose there will be a part of a job in the committee's proposal to examine it carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u56	President. Thank you. The elder's answer is that he or she may still have that work and that he will see to it that he is aware of it. The Environment and Transport Committee reviews these issues, i.e. to see if there are any legal grounds to directly forbid the use of a tire rubber plate. I want to pray. A senator in his later reply to my counter-reference to dictate the practicality of the time frame and whether this time limit before 2016 is thought of for the time the Minister receives to provide a strategy that aims to replace the tyre. Or do it. A senator assumes that all rubber jars were replaced by the end of 2016? We're back in that year, and there's a pretty tough plan, if that's what it's supposed to be. Then I'd like to ask you what. A senator because I don't see it showing up on the case, but I guess so. A senator knows the matter well: How extensive is this project? How many hits are these? How many societies are these? How important is it to replace these faults? What, then, would we use in return? See what? A senator envisions some barriers to consultation, which would likely be primarily with sports companies and rural communities? Has a what? A senator, any idea of the cost of this project, likely one of the points needed to be looked at?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-03-73.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. All these questions have occurred during the process and are very good. Of course, the best conclusion would be because it's on the table of many people, and it's the least of all the reasons here that -- this case is designed to bring forward cooperation and make a success of the results because it's on the table of the rural communities that have to build up and finance this level. Of course, it is also on the table of sports authorities and to this extent at the legal level, where there is an environmental and potential risk of the close environment of these alternatives and the health of those who use them. Happily, rural society has responded well and has become a source of distribution to hazardous materials in many places. This dangerous substance is called industrial rubber, which we feel to form in our washing machines. It is a substance that is confirmed that there is less harmful effects. Of course, you should be careful about all such topics because you have not read all the research that is involved in them. But there's a general will to solve this case, I feel it. Of course, it costs money. Hv. A senator came in on the time frame. It is true that some time has passed, as would have been the case when it is started. Since then, months have passed. I can see that you can finish the case and you can ban the use of typhus and then work with your rural society, start a course of consultation, work out from the plan, and finish the case at the end of 2016. [[The president calls.]] It may be necessary to revise the time frame because there is only a little time left before the situation was resolved. [[The president calls.]] I don't have the number in the data I have here. There were dozens of choices, but a great many flaws have been replaced. So I can't claim to be number one right now.
