ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u1	At the OSE Parliament meeting yesterday, February 17th, Steingrímsson Steingrimurson was elected vice president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u2	To answer, Ministers of Economics and Economics, Education and Culture, Industrial and Business Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u3	President. After the highest. The prime minister then declared in the General's symposium that the matter of paying was a mess, which is a term for the highest degree. The prime minister, who was not present in a public talk, followed the secretary of finance and agreed on a press talk. He said that it was a mistake to stand in such a way that the pay case, in fact, meant that the buyers'profited abnormally. Now I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance, since he agrees that this was a case, on whose part it was messed up, whether it was not a failure on the part of the minister of finance itself, not to intervene immediately with a particular investigation, as was repeated. The one mentioned here requested in January 2015 explains that the object was placed in a closed sales process. Why does it have the highest power? Secretary of finance did not act in the matter of paying and selling the Lands Bank at that time? Now there's reason to reimburse credibility. It is to sell large amounts of government property while the credibility of the Icelandic state, the Bank of Government, and the financial minister has been compromised. It is clear that the minister of finance himself is responsible for the political issue, under which it cannot be taken, and, indeed, the case of all the people, and this must be the requirement of all of us who have a role here to uphold the executive authority. The minister of finance is speaking clearly in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u4	Mr. President. The person standing here has written a letter to the Bank Office, the Bank Department is carrying the government's property at the bank, and requesting that all that can be called out as information about decisions related to the Land Bank sale of the stocks in City will be drawn to the surface. It is now known that the rulers of the Land Bank themselves have said that they had better had the trade process open at the time, have followed a mistake in this matter, and should therefore be aware that humans have come to realize that open and transparent treatment of these matters is everything for trust. The role of the person listed here is to establish and follow his policy. We now have a review of it, but in the approved tenant policy, there is one particular way that the Iceland can build a healthy and powerful financial system that serves the interests of Icelandic society, building trust and credibility in the Icelandic financial market, and the money it provides for the government. I must say exactly as it is, I find an incredibly inexpensive political bitch as a boy. A senator works here, saying that all the responsibility for the individual decisions made in banks owned by the secretary of finance. I'm saying this because I thought we had crossed this stage, and I thought we were going to that place to agree that we needed to have banks in control from the influence of politicians. It's the system I see best for trust in the financial system, that I don't talk about trust in politics, a length of arms from the influence of politicians. [[The president calls.]] But, hey. A senator is actually calling for the person standing here to have his fingers in the individual decisions made by the banks. It's not an arrangement that I'm going to use, and I'm not going to be the one who's lost to increase trust in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u5	President. Thank you very much. Minister for answers as far as they can reach them. I ask again: Isn't it true that the largest mess was when the Landsban decided not to put the sale on his property in an open process? And I ask again, "Why did it go to the top?" For example, would not a secretary of finance surprise us who insisted that this be investigated and that it be opened? Why did the minister not do so in his time? A year ago, it was called forward, and the minister did not accept it. V.E.G. A minister says that his responsibilities are not involved. He doesn't want her to lie around. I ask: Who is the political responsibility for the mess that the payoff case was truly and available? Who will take responsibility for the mess?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u6	Mr. President. The fact is, the financial companies have sold dozens of companies in recent years, including During the reign of the left green, without an open process. Can I name Advania? May I speak of Iceland? Can I name the House Depot? Can I mention the budget that was sold in a single package without a revelation? Can I mention almost every company that has made its way into the Stock Hall and who were in the arms of the bank after the failure that was not sold in an open career, more or less, in the possession of pensions, and then in the registered market? [[Up front.]] Who Is Responsible? Governments and directors of the Land Bank bear the responsibility. My political responsibility is to ensure that there is a tenant policy and that it is followed. That's exactly what I did in a letter to the Bank Office just moments ago, and I called attention to the state's approved tenant policy and requested that the Bank Office take action to ensure that this policy would be followed. As we look at the entire stage, this is one of many dozens if not hundreds of examples of property sales that have taken place since the collapse without transparency, without an open process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's the situation we face today. We're taking action, I'm in my Ministry and we're a government, to make sure these things don't recur.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u7	President. By the morning at 5:30, three refugees received phone calls from the police. The phone calls were on the way that they should be shown from Iceland. These men have been here three or four years. They're all cleared and cleared for employment. There was no time for them to prepare to be sent to the uncertainty, to the top street in Italy. A minister has agreed from a summary I am instructed to understand that it is a safe country, despite the fact that doctors without borders left Italy for the last month to protest about the horrors of refugees. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he does not consider it necessary to reconsider the possibility of sending people to Italy. Then I also wanted to study the process. Those of us who care about refugee matters wanted to help these men. We tried to find out where they were going. I could not get any information about where to go to Italy Christian. No one could answer that question. When I received this case, all the telephones at the Marshal's office had been closed and no direct numbers could be received. I didn't mean to call 911. They were to send this man who has a living permit here and a work permit to some place in Italy that he didn't know who was, but I understood from the notice that it was only a straight flight to Milan, not Rome. On the other hand, he thought that he might be leaving. Does the minister feel that such work is acceptable and the shortest time anyone was given? Evidently, the tickets were bought on February 5th. Why didn't they tell us immediately?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u8	A respectable president. This is a matter of individuals. As the World of Congress knows, we have now changed the order of events, so it is repeated, in order that the Ministry no longer has a unique case to do. In fact, in those changed realities, the Ministry is a bit at work, for the Ministry has a major role in the affairs of foreigners. Of course, it's important to the Ministry how they handle things. In view of the issues presented, we feel that the need for the Ministry to better appreciate what its situation is in the case of a case of that nature. In this regard, for example, when it is noted that a minister does not have that information in particular points. I do know, however, as well. A senator knows that last night, the Foreign Institute made the decision to postpone sending this appointed party away, after contact with their attorneys. It's the information I have and are now public, that the lawyers have had a certain view that the Foreign Institute considered to be the right thing to do. I think that in some cases the case of that person was sent to the decision - making committee, the right decisiongiver to evaluate how these matters are handled. I think it's up to me that we're in the big changes that have been making in foreign affairs still a little bit of a move on how we should keep up with these specific matters. The Ministry has followed recent events by a better understanding of the procedure that has been performed for years, whether it can be done better. I think there's always room to do better. During the next few hours, there will be evidence of what steps will be taken in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u9	President. I appreciate your clear answers, and I know that. A minister has given much emphasis to the better handling of the work. I feel that somehow there is a little less specific procedure for those who are working with this group, especially when it comes to disfellowshipping. For example, I find it inhumane that the person to be dismissed does not receive any information about the next step. I find the short time people get, and I'm talking in general, not just about these three people. I've seen this happen over and over and over, and I hope that the Ministry will put a lot of emphasis on the fact that such a procedure will never happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u10	V.E.G. President. I reiterate what I said, we believe that at any given time, there is reason to consider the procedure we have. I also point out that in the vast number of people coming to us today, all the work around them has been put to the test. I admit that I think that people only have to understand the responsibility of those who operate in this system - so we use that word for what we're used to doing - in the matter. It is not simply a matter of standing before the decisions we are considering. We have confidence in a foreign agency for this. We also need to make sure that she has the tools and tools needed to do things carefully. This is also a interaction between the State Marshal and the Foreign Institute. It may be possible to move more carefully and to inform others about how things are going. I repeat, that's what we're going over at the Ministry now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to have a place to say to the highest. The secretary of the state and the urgent problem we've had this week to address the security of tourists in Iceland. This is a continuation of a recent discussion in which the management of tourism in the country, especially the government, which, of course, is responsible, has been under severe scrutinizing for inactivity and a certain failure in this business. We hear repeated reports of fatal accidents in the tourism service, now last in an attempt, where nine people have been caught in an acute crisis since 2007 and two people have died. There's going to be drowning in Silfra in the Þingru, people in the middle of a glacier, and many times more likely to land in the airports, walking in the vicinity of the largest water drains in the country. Sadly, the answers made by governments to make improvement have done nothing more than give rise to concern because they are dealing materially with the issue, waiting for a risk analysis, and making plans for one thing or another. Yet, everyone knows that the infrastructure is falling under pressure and that the safety threshold is at the breaking point. The country's roads have given rise to the threat of major road travel, causing road erosion and danger, since tourism is often different from the one used here. Now I'm asking the highest. The secretary of the state who must be deeply concerned about this: When is it possible to expect definitive suggestions from the minister for needed improvement in the tourist safety and, especially, the law? What will be the first action, and when?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u12	V.E.G. President. In the middle of the last year, the Ministry of Internal Affairs was made up of the decision that it would be necessary to look specifically at the security issues, the role of the State Department of State on those matters, to find out what might be done in particular to meet the challenges faced by the great number of tourists, and to make a truly high income of the Icelandic national population. We arrived late in the fall from that working group. This was especially the case with law enforcement. This, of course, shows that there is a considerable need for police action. As a result, the Ministry decided to continue their research and plan plans on the basis of its appearance. You see, it's important that you take the time to review your plans as well. Even if the problem is severe at any given time and we try to deal with it, a careful plan is of utmost importance when we face the challenge we are here to deal with. I certainly don't want to minimize the need for careful planning and the need for real development. That's what we've done, and I reiterate that it was done last year. Besides, I think people have to be reasonable in their language. Have you not seen significant increases in money taken to tourist areas during recent losses? Don't people want to agree? Wasn't there an increase in money in law enforcement? It's been done. Isn't that right? Besides, were there not 1,800 million who were determined last year to make more transport contributions especially because of tourism? Isn't that right? As soon as we realize the challenge we are facing, let us also take note of what has been done. Let us do so and be careful to do what we say.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u13	A respectable president. I believe that we who are discussing this here could be absolutely truthful in this discussion. I asked about the operations. I've been asking what the money the Minister called is about to do. What action is being carried out? What are the most important tasks, according to the Minister's opinion? It is shown in her case that people agree on action. But what are the works? What has been done? Of course, the importance of careful planning should not be minimized, but priorities are also needed. Today, certain sites call for significant improvements, since the danger has been evident for years and decades. But nothing's happening. What is happening to the safety of tourists while trying? When is it expected that significant improvements will be taken? This is what the matter is all about, the more dignified president, and I request a clearer answer from the minister on the matter of action, actions, and actions just ahead of us, as the situation has developed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u14	A respectable president. I think it's quite clear that in places where the State itself owns property, we must have considerable responsibility, i.e. State, right? In fact, when it comes to personal land, the matter is somewhat different. Like what? A senator is aware of events there and of the dangers and dangers of trying because of the amazing number of tourists she accepts for an emergency treatment. To me, it is clear that the country's highway system is at its greatest risk. That's where all the traffic is. There are both Icelandic and foreign road users. There we need to be careful about security and my will is that it goes further. It is my will, both in the case of safety and in the way of the projects that may be carried out, that road maintenance is to be considered in particular. It is a grand task and will take us a long time to reach the level we want to be. [[The president calls.]] But it's being taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u15	Mr. President. Today, at a university conference meeting, it will likely be decided to take the students out of college on Lake Saturday, move them to Reykjavík, and reduce the number of public jobs in the Blue Forest. All the members of the district council have objected to what appears to be the sole will of a university council, to take sports and health studies from Saturday's lake to Reykjavík. There are eight members of the council, hombre. Chairman of the Board of Education and the Supreme Court. Minister of law, including. The members of the United States have all expressed their willingness to work out a more successful solution to the students, to the university trajectory, and to the ten - year - old school community. It is estimated that further analysis of opportunities in the study environment on Lake Saturday needs to be considered before the final decision is made. The number of teachers in all departments has decreased since the education of teachers and the training program is no exception, but the opportunity for Lake Lava is an increased need for public health professionals. I'd like to ask the highest. The Minister of Education and Cultures whether he has promoted his decision to the university every year while the local Society, the Ministry and the university work together for further analysis and presentation of opportunities in the study environment on Lake Saturday. Tells you the highest. Ministers acceptable that the services of Iceland's University in the region are decreasing and that one South American university agency is decomposed without actual attempts to keep pace? Tells you the highest. The minister of the university's arguments justified and sufficient to move studies and jobs from the area of the country to Reykjavík in this way? Has the matter been discussed at the highest. A government that even wants to teach itself at Lake Saturday?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and would like to say at the outset that I have not used or tried to influence the program of a university conference, what it says, or when. In fact, I don't think it would be appropriate for a minister of education, either me or anyone else, to do that. I can have my opinion on things that the university does, but I am not part of the university council program or the school's internal issues. The university is highly independent, protected by law, and must make decisions about his inner issues and be responsible for them. In fact, I realized that this case had already been postponed, postponed for some weeks to make a final decision, but then. A senator points out that the matter exists today. In terms of university reasoning and justification, I'm not going to judge that. I believe, however, that everyone agrees that the university has an important role for the entire nation, both the capital and the country. The university has a variety of activities that are useful all over the country, can't be added, and I know the university has the ambition to do this best. The university, however, must have time to make its decisions on its own. I don't think it's going to work for a minister of education there, but I'm sure it's normal. Councilmen both have an opinion on the matter and take advantage of it. That is quite normal, but as far as a minister is concerned, things must be within the bounds of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u17	Mr. President. This is not just the University of Iceland business. These are political issues, both human lamotian and geographic. What has been asked is to postpone this decision for a year and to contribute funds to better determine the status of the school, how to market the school, and to strengthen the university village in the Blue Forest, U.S.A. I remind you, the highest. The government was behind the transfer of Fish Room to Akureyri because of the groundwork. This cost a lot more than is required here. It is only a request to postpone a decision for one year and make a real effort to strengthen the study. This is not the way one treats the department or the community that has served school. It's a political matter, and it's supposed to be solved in a political field rather than just from Iceland's High School of Business.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u18	A respectable president. It's not going to be both released and kept in it. The university has its independence, and it is guaranteed by law. Under these circumstances, it is not just the focus of the school; it is also its policy and emphasis. The arrangement he has established is that the minister is not involved in the individual decisions of the university council. Then it is true that it matters, and I trust it and believe that the university council looks to all its views. A senator described it. On the other hand, comparing this with the transport of Fish Labs shows that there is a lack of anything - I don't think they can be compared in any way, a respectable president, on the other hand, to legislation on the independence of Iceland's University and then the transfer of individual public institutions. I don't think it's a complete comparison, but at the same time he's saying something like this, that you can't both take the cake and eat it, either the University of Iceland and its independence. The minister can't just walk into the Agency and do some part of the meeting program, when they're making decisions, etc., but I reiterate that I understand the situation, I understand the situation of the senators, and I'm sure they'll act on the case as they've already done, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u19	A respectable president. I want to direct questions to the highest. Secretary of finance on the status of young people in Iceland, especially young children's family and young intellectuals. The fact is, despite the rise in society, the same rise as the highest. A minister will often be talked about, has one generation, if we look well, left in economic respect. They're young people. We know the discussion of some other groups in the community that do not have it well, and of course, there are desperate, and some elderly ones, but what I want to discuss today is not one group within a single host but, in fact, an entire generation. They are young people who are working hard to educate themselves, that is, having children, that is, trying to get their homes and their own, and that is to prove themselves and work on their jobs. These are the people who pay all the expenses that come with children and are a large part of the homebook. These are fees, such as preschool, vacation home, school meals, sports, music, and so forth. These are the people who are buying their first apartment and are saving money for payment. They're the people who don't have a head start in the market, no possessions to put in. During the savings, the same people usually pay the highest rent. The successful assessment of News magazine on Friday compared the economic status of the age groups in Icelandic society. While the average number of middle - aged and older people today is somewhat better than those at the turn of the century, young people's ideals are considerably inferior, less income, and worse economics. In these upcoming times, according to an analysis from ASI, more Icelanders are moving away from the country than they are moving to it. It's never happened before at a time of ruffle. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he's not worried about this. For example, he is responsible for the financial crisis and is likely to contribute additional expenses for health care due to the nation's aging. The people who pay most of the taxes to live up to them need to feel that they can afford to be here. [[The president calls.]] Children's families need much of their resources to drive them and their families, and I would like to ask if the minister is not disturbed about their situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u20	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator said that it is the young generation that came one of the worst from the collapse. Then I may especially refer to the generation that had been involved, when the banks fell, and the inflation went out of control, recently entering the housing market. The fact is, those in that position lost their own money and, overall, that group's personal financial status became negative. We have been very successful in righting this group, but still, young people in Iceland face some difficult situations. I don't think it's all black. Consider some examples. First, professional level is very high. The relax is out of the economy. One of the main interests of economic interests for young people is that of being able to get a job after study. These conditions are in the economy today. That's a big deal. Next thing is access to loans. Achieving on loans has been quite good, and we've seen a big growth in our first apartment purchases recently, i.e. The percentage of young people taking loans is growing. We have also maintained stability in terms of merit, which is important. The lowest pay has been rising according to the latest collective agreements and the buypower of provisions for growth. He went up 5% 2014 and nearly 7% 2015. So I don't think the movie's just so dark like that. A senator describes. Because of all the relics that are referred to, it must be said as it is that there is a interaction between what we are doing at the council and what is happening at the level of government, which is important. [[The president calls.]] But this government will not be accused of adding up the burden because we have been paying taxes, both income taxes and other public fees.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u21	V.E.G. President. I just don't agree with it. I don't think the government has helped young people. Not at all. And that is not exactly what helped them to help themselves. We're not asking for much. I don't want to see some huge improvement system around young families. For example, in a short future, I want to see that the school points are free. This is just what we need to have a decent community. In order to get back into the job market to pay and maintain interest and to keep the wheels going, people should not have to pay for their child - in - law school fees. This is so fucked up. The birthworm is such that people cannot take advantage of it. Fathers do not take advantage of it because it is so expensive for family members. People cannot continue to pay off the loans they receive. We've been seeing in recent numbers that people don't spend the entire time in their maternity room because the roof is all, way too low. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. Minister has not done enough of this, and I want the voters to remember.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u22	Mr. President. As I mentioned, there are some of the cases mentioned here that are not in our domain, they're at the state level. This is especially true of preschool. But I agree with what. A senator on the birthworm. There's been too much pressure on people's rights to take birth vacations, and I've talked many times about the need to do better there. We've had a different priorities. We have stressed other lawsuits. But it's time to strengthen your maternity rights. I also have to make the most of the special savings campaign that between 30 and 40 thousand people use, a tax discount to collect for a head chair to their first apartment purchases. I think that one of the main interests of the young generation today is that governments take more decisive measures to support their first apartment buyers even more than they do today. To this end, the Parliament has a number of primary products produced by the secretary of housing. We intend to bring up more prime signals to strengthen this right, for example, to extend the right to take out the special property to the first apartment purchases, and to mention that living in Iceland and working against this trend will still be desirable. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, I think it's in itself a good thing that young people go beyond the rocks and then get the experience more rich back home.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u23	A respectable president. In February 2015, he wished for it. 3.m. Smoke. s., Sigríður Ingadóttir, after a special discussion at the highest level. The prime minister for breaking out insurance, but that was not the case. Hv. A senator, the same person, has provided a bill for the removal of insurance that is 461th case and is before the council. It's looked that way. The prime minister is not afraid to talk about this matter, but he has the direct inquiry to the highest level. Economic and financial secretary who's the head of the litigation team. So the highest will be expected. Secretary of the budget is speaking for the government of the mercenaries. I'm assuming that the highest. A government has discussed the matter. But I have to explain to myself that all of this has become the most embarrassing thing in my life, how the discussion has developed here at the council, or rather, has not evolved. I've always thought it was a strange question whether you're in favor of insurance or not. I think it's more correct to ask if you approve of choosing a securable loan. Also, the debate is basically about the growth and, of course, the inflation of the crown. But I thought about the highest views. Minister of that subject, and especially the government's views. There is no evidence to suggest, in my opinion, that by decommissioning or banning insurance, interest rates decline. I know there are ideas of such things, but the person here isn't very religious. Of course, I have full respect for others'viewpoints, and I expect them to be presented in this discussion, but I especially want to know what they mean. There's a secretary of finance to that effect. Today, people who are disloyal are paying a much higher amount of money than those who are in debt, and inflation is not at the same time much. But it can change. Taking into account the story, it will eventually change over time. That's why you're lucky. It allows depositors and creditors to see any benefit in the long - term loans. But with a crown of such strong inflation, long - term financial commitments cannot be made in my opinion, for 40 years or so, without any means needed to compensate for the inflation tendency. This option we live in today's world is called insurance and is naturally controversial and, of course, particularly after a crash or inflation. The problem is obvious in my opinion, high interest rates will remain even without insurance. Today, people can take disloyal loans. In fact, there is nothing that prevents people from doing it except high interest rates and the subsequent high loads of payment. Sometimes I wonder what problem it is exactly that people want to solve by banning insurance. As far as I can see, one choice is simply taken away, which people should be able to reject if the option is so cursed to begin with. Someone said at the time, and in my opinion, there is something to say: The country could take away insurance itself by not taking securities loans. That's what she could do. But it doesn't, because it's when it's forced to take a loan that's irresponsible, and that's why it's sky high interest, up to 8% or so +-0.5. So, in view of the 2013 election campaign, I think it's quite appropriate, in view of the enterprise's promises, which I know to the highest. Secretary of finance did not participate in the fact that it appears here at the council, in the form of a special discussion and discussion of the bill at any given time. Councilmen Sigríður, Ingadóttir and Hjörvar Ingibjörg, give us a view of the Senate's insurance policy. I hope then we can present the views considered justified by banning this phenomenon, the insurance policy. As I said here before, I have full respect for those who oppose this option and believe it to be economicly harmful. But then we have to talk about it here, and then we have the highest. Ministers to discuss it with those members of the council who would like to discuss it. I don't think that you're either in favor of insurance or not, but the choice. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister if he's in favor of the choice. Whether the government intends to cancel or limit insurance in some way. And last but not least, I'm asking if it's the highest. Minister will support the review of the bill. Councilmen of the United States of America are given full treatment of the council here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u24	Mr. President. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss these matters, and I'd like to say here at the outset that I feel a bit upset. A senator approaches the subject by means of a careful approach. I'm glad that men are willing to discuss this on that basis and in a perfunctory way. Government contracts discuss the will to eliminate the insurance insurance of new consumer loans. As noted, a special committee was appointed to review it, and a report by the Committee is available. One member of the committee gave me a special party that I'm not going to do in particular on here. It's a fairly tight report. It's about the nature of the insurance policy. The report offers suggestions on how we can impose on the general use of the insurance policy and why it is desirable to do so. Here there is no room for reviewing all the points of this report, but I intend to mention that the report gives strong evidence that the loan market arrangement as widely used insurance as it really is, has certain defects. On page 18. 15 The report specifically speaks of the most defective insurance policy. I'm going to give you a few points from the report. Discriminate remuneration and securities may be considered in times of inflation, saying that loans will be raised and the pay will be much later received, even falling into interest at the same time. We know this from 2009. This has taken a long time to find a new balance. In general, property is now being exposed to the inflation blow. The pay has also been accomplished in the commercial power of inflation, but this is one of the woes. There's a risk of checking because of this. Who doesn't recognize it? We had a well - established home in the community following the inflation blow. There is a degree of temptation to borrow, i.e. a very long amount of credit will give people the opportunity to borrow, since people are really paying not every month the weight of interest, but, in part, borrow it, especially under the circumstances of inflation only. There is a negative impact on the effectiveness of money policy, as explained here. There's no time for all these things, but it's important. The committee suggested that we especially look at two things; on the one hand, rising the minimum time of prices from five years to ten for consumer loans. That's what we've been considering. We have received a review of the Federal Bank, which raises advantages and weaknesses of doing this, but we do not fully warn against them under certain circumstances. That is what we are working to do, and we are building for the ability to make this decision. The other proposal was that we would clear the market of 40 years' worth of even payment. What we've been doing at the Ministry is getting information about how it would affect consumers, i.e. how much the percentage of those who have been taking this long loan would not pass payment on a 25 - year loan that the committee proposes we would direct people to. Now I don't have an answer from the entire financial system, but we have very significant data that show that it can be up to 40%, and even beyond that, the people taking a 40-year credit loan would not be able to pass the salary rate of 25 years. Who are they? It's the people who've mentioned between their hands. It must now be said that this would be a challenge for this group and that counter measures would be taken. That's what we're working on. To what extent can counter measures be taken in themselves? Should we possibly keep this option inside for all the earners? Surely we would not want to make a change that eventually leads only to one type of loans going out, and the government will then need to support the group that used it most effectively with large credit payments? I don't think anyone's talking about it in itself. [[The president calls.]] This is a fairly complex subject, and I refer to the report to a deeper understanding of the nature of the insurance policy and the challenges we face. I believe there is a great deal of work to be done, to reduce its general use, but it has to happen that we are not pressing on the groups that have been mentioned among the hands and have been choosing this option to get into our own housing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u25	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of finance for discussing the insurance policy at the Congress Hall. V.E.G. The prime minister has not seen fit to discuss prices here. The secretary of finance to bridalize the failure to keep the campaign plans for the party. Price insurance is one of the unique features of the Icelandic financial market. The vast price insurance of consumer loans is not known in any developed economy that must tell its own story about how desirable insurance really is. Thus, we must aim for insurance to be taken from our neighboring countries and from the Icelandic loan market. I've got it, with a head. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, put in a bill on the ban on consumer insurance. It is a simple bill, achieving its goals quickly and safely. Of course, that is not the only way to ban insurance. So there is some disappointment that the government does not act on the case. No bills or steps take to that end. I remind you of clear promises in these subjects and people's expectations for change. If nothing is done, people's trust in politics will continue to decrease, and unbelievers will grow. I want less than ever. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has developed a policy that between 2014-2017 and the U.S. government loans 60 to 101 perennial and that of the total financial debt, only 23% should be insured at the end of 2017. The wealth of money is self-imbursed on the grounds of insurmountable loans. This is not surprising, since a government study showed that the government's budget had been saving $35 billion at the current cost of 2003-03/2014 by posting an unsecured bond. I want less than ever. The secretary of the budget says that the government has performed a general reduction in the prices of the mortgage. [[The president calls.]] This delinquency cost 80 billion in minimum and is, of course, completely distrust of the privatized loan system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u26	Mr. President. There's some damage to the top. The prime minister and head of the Annexe Party should not be here to comment or at least to attend, with full respect for the Supreme Court. Of course, secretary of finance, for it was the advance party and especially his chairman who promised to decommission insurance after election. I was at the campaign in a high-level Northeast district. One prime minister is available, and he well remembers that many people experienced it, so this promise meant that insurance should only be removed from the surface of the earth when borrowing and using new ones. Thus, people experienced and chose to do so on a large scale, just as they chose that over the next day 300,350 billion of their homes' debt would vaporize. [[Invented in: the EU, too.]] Of course, progress has found a solution to this problem. It involves finding someone who is guilty, a scapegoat, and that is the highest. Secretary of finance. It's the oddness of the team that's the bad guy when the candidates are talking about it here as if we've experienced it in the Senate Hall. That is the situation at the loving home. Of course, with regard to the insurance policy, and one of the results of this report is that its vast scale in the economy is a disaster, and it is a problem in how we deal with it. Therefore, those of us who have long tried to talk about this responsibility and to avoid the deity have been advocates of reducing the value of insurance as far as possible, but it needs to be measured and organized. The problem on the foundation is not the insurance policy, but if you don't mind me saying that. The problem is how much money it costs in Iceland, how much it takes, how much money - free it is to have a home while the growth rate in Iceland is so high. Of course, if the result is that borrowing of changing interest to shorter time is beyond control in terms of the burden of payment for much of the country, we must take it seriously before taking some unattracted step in these materials. That's what needs to be done in Iceland, that we have a huge loan here that goes up for normal people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u27	V.E.G. President. I'm here to celebrate this discussion on the insurance policy and thank the advert, okay? paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn, for taking this case here before and at the highest. Minister for entry. V.E.G. A minister was highly concerned about the dangers of inflation and instability, which is very evident in the report of the insurance policy group. It's a very tight report, I agree. At the same time, we find that this vast amount of insurance in the economy is a problem and is part of a money market. This is also made clear in this report. I don't think we're saying something or something. We're changing the loan system. We're cutting down a huge amount of insurance. This is essential based on economic views. And not only that, but we've just accepted the laws on public finance and we're talking about legal discipline, and there's a need to bring in discipline in the economy. The discipline is that insurance insurance should be promised its right name. It's supposed to be growing, it's changing interest rates. When borrowing, the creditor becomes costly and takes into account real interest so that he will give them the cost of paying the loan and borrowing, knowing the cost he or she is facing, and he will be able to determine what he is going to make use of the loan. This brings discipline to the whole society. This may be the very essence of why it is necessary to change this loan system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u28	A respectable president. Of course, the election stocks for the last election's campaigns for decommissioning insurance were far too large. I guess we won't see that promise for the next election because, of course, it's complicated, as it were. This discussion. Of course, me and us in a short future would like to get rid of the insurance policy. We don't want Iceland's loan market to be rewarded with. Resurrected loans are a massive lesion, and they can turn borrowers on their backs, as shown in the collapse, and so on. But we have said that we must not lose focus on the basic work that is building the foundation of the economy, making it available for low interest on the mortgage. Today, the market simply assesses that there is too much risk in the Icelandic economy. That's why the funding is expensive. We can see this only by looking at the economic history, and here are repeated variations in in in inflation, and the insurance policy is simply the way of the market to try to make sure of it. What is the real purpose? Do we not want to see in Iceland such an economic environment that we can be confident that this will be an unconvinced loan, which may be more than in many neighboring countries? If we think it's possible - and we're in the short future, we think this is, for example, an example. slowly, by sharing in currency work with Europe and by holding it up in this discussion - we should aim toward that goal. In that case, insurance will be unnecessary. Her strength has been decreasing over the past few years with increasing supply on uncertain loans, and that is very good. But I don't think insurance will go away until we finish reaching the economy goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u29	A respectable president. This case has been rather embarrassing for the highest. Government, especially the highest. Prime Minister for not wanting to come to the Assembly Hall and discuss this matter. Price insurance is something we in Iceland have had to live in for half a century, if not anymore. Thus, insurance is not viewed as bad in nature. While it seems possible in most countries to be borrowing in a financial way, it is also possible to have an unscrupulous loan. The problem with the Icelandic economy is that it is not a real possibility to be borrowing unscrupulous. There is a chance on paper, but not a real possibility for those who intend to take the loan. However, there is something else that we need to look at in this context, and that is the currency. Icelandic dollars is a tiny currency that tries to fight theats. Those who want to hold on to this tiny currency need to support how they are going to do so through this inflation, with this insurance insurance that some of whom would like to cancel, argue how they feel about the economy in Iceland by this convention. It doesn't matter how much discipline is involved in financial matters. It doesn't matter if a new system is created to create funds. The important thing is that we have a currency that works in the international context, a currency that, after all, is worth something. Icelandic dollars, as beautiful as it looks, and the idea of it seems to have no particular currency. To a large extent, it seems to be the root of the problem for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u30	V.E.G. President. I've never really realized why there's a requirement to ban insurance. What is insurance? Of course, it's just one form of changing growth, it's just the objective method, not a forecast. Of course, it has flaws, insurance has flaws, it's a temptation problem, borrowing more than you have to, etc. We're talking about the problem as high as money. We are always talking about consequences, never where the cause lies. Why are loans worth money? Why is inflation? There are two key measures to prevent this - it's not the EU, no, it's that the state of the budget is in order and that this is a labour market that does not negotiate and costs far beyond what is an economic basis. [[Up front.]] If we put this straight, which may be possible now, it seems to me, no one would be discussing insurance, not any man. This is what we need to realize, that when we get it right, they may not take these loans automatically, that is unnecessary, unless, otherwise, a small group could not be paid for or obtained an apartment, so this option may not be possible - but this form will probably not be used much. Suddenly, though, we are having a discussion about banning things, talking about everything else that doesn't matter. We're not gonna make any better. Let's talk about the basics.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u31	President. Price insurance was not caused by itself, and it can hardly be taken away unless something is replaced. What could replace your insurance policy? Yes, interest can replace insurance. But interest needs to be high. Even now, when inflation is minimal, growth is uncertain between 7 and 8%. That's a lot of interest. Like remuneration, remuneration, food prices, and so forth, no ordinary person can handle mortgages with over 7% interest. It has been thought of banning the value of a loan that is longer than 25 years, which has been called Iceland loans, but these are the only loans that many can pay for. True, during the first 15 years or even more, people do not gain much from their real estate. But they have a safe home, and they don't have people if they're on rent today. If inflation is controlled, insurance is not a problem. But the growth rate in this country is not easy. It's for the crown. It is because of the poor that lenders receive, which are very high in interest. And if there's anything else, there's interest at banks, and there's a way to correct it. There is no cure to cancel insurance, but people are supposed to have a choice. A person should have the option to borrow inaccessible loans. However, the challenge, President, must be to make the growth environment comparable to what happens in other countries whether it is for people or for business. How will this be done? This will be done in cooperation with other nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u32	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion, I think it's a long time. If insurance is an inflatable policy, inflation will become more pronounced and uncertainty will increase and you may ask yourself, " If the cost of inflation is removed and insurance will be unnecessary, and uncertainty will be reduced. We must also ask ourselves, " Why do I have such little influence on the consumption of my country's income despite the equal load of credit paid? ' That's how we maintain the inflation. With this cycle of constant increases in the Semitic Bank on interest that should be and has been an attempt to resist the inflation process through all the central routes of the financial policy, there is always a need for capitalisation to result from the wax trade, the croner's gangs swinging, the import and export of the emulator, and a business house to be corrected by a going-again in progress which ultimately turns into the headlock's pernice. We know this and have known Iceland too long. I thought it'd be nice to hear a minister say that you're looking at a way to reduce the value of insurance loans. It was also interesting to learn that 40% of people may not have the opportunity to borrow if insurance is completely removed. The government is trying to expand the tenet by building new buildings that have not yet arrived, and we need to increase the number of options for people who want to buy homes with unsecured loans, with solid interest, so that the payment rate is practical for both young and poor people. There is no other way to say that the price insurance maintains instability in the Icelandic economy. It has a tremendous influence on the position of the homes. We must find ways to reduce its impact and, as indicated here, to increase by stabilisation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u33	V.E.G. President. I will begin my second talk with a question that I love very much: Why not just have a choice? Choice today is, in fact, under compulsion. As we have seen, the burden of unscrupulous loans is too heavy for a very large number, so people are forced to take on the loads of the future, which are twice as expensive as taking unfavourable loans even though they have as much interest as they are today. This is what causes problems in coping with the main objectives of economic management, which, of course, are stability and growth. What would be the result of changing, I don't like to say no, the insurance? It's going to stay for a consumer count. The lender will continue to look for real interest. The price change will continue to be measured, so when the borrower costs his loan, he takes into consideration real interest. What will change, however, is that he will take responsibility just as he borrows about changing prices into the future. Fair enough. At the same time, such indiscriminate growth will become manageable. It will encourage governments to take counter measures, to extend the expertise economy, which is very sensible. So, in the long run, the cow bank will have to raise the only control device he has because the underlying 4◯5% of inflation would be potentially 11◯14% if it did not work. We've been in a position of merit for two years, it's very precious. So we have the opportunity now, after this professional and careful government work with the report, to consider where young people are taking their first loans today in order to change this system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u34	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this discussion. I think it's very important and must say that I've never understood what special candidates are discussing by banning insurance. I don't think it's a good idea because it's a symptom of the problem, but it's not a cause. Of course, because of their intention of securing, the cause is an insurmountability to economic management and the high interest levels of banks. They guarantee their money and always will. Still, I found it very interesting to hear a thought. paritaprevir Willum Þór, son of Þórsson on bail. I understand what he's about to do, but why don't you let the interest go? We see that they are unrealistic. They're 7◯8%. Why, then, do they not act as the senator discussed, since the borrower is responsible for the loan? This is way too much interest. People can't take loans like this, as we know. The problem is that we have an unstable currency. It is unstable because it is small and is easily influenced by outside factors. We need a constant currency, that's what it's all about. We need a land-related currency, it needs a solid land, and the economic government has not been that earthline for as long as it remembers. I don't think she will be. We have to learn from history, we need to connect ourselves to a bigger battery - and that's the EU.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u35	A respectable president. I'm going to start by thanking you for this fine discussion. Though I have had a special interest in speeches. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor, would I have liked to have more candidates present during the discussion. I'd like to ask myself, " What if a political party got into a campaign to promise less direction growth? ' There's a reason why money banks are independent. She's that politicians always want to grow younger. When politicians promise to cancel insurance, I can only see that they are promising something very similar, i.e. that people have to pay less money to live their lives and have their homes. I think we should discuss this with the same responsibility that we expect when it comes to steering growth. Of course, there are conflicting opinions about what is a cause and what is a result in the general economy. This is true of insurance and management, but it is always possible that politicians will come to the conclusion and accept the teachings they are able to support with lower interest. It will always be that way because it is the financial interest of voters and directly the result of political interests by politicians. Therefore, we need to approach this subject with more responsibility than simply praising something we want to give to people because we are to be so good politicians. What I feel is left behind at the end of the discussion is the root cause of the problem that is still there. We're not sure how to borrow, and we're high on interest. Inflation is low now and has been for some time, but it is very high. That problem doesn't seem to go anywhere. Thank you very much. Ministers for the answers and look forward to seeing the progress of the case, but I have to say that I feel that the problem has not been adequately discussed here. So I hope that the discussion will become more detailed and expect it to be followed by the contributions of a bill. þm. The Ingibjörg of Ingavesdóttir. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u36	Mr. President. It is true that it is important to speak here at the root of the problem. In recent decades, we have made some progress. For example, I'd like to recall that when I had just come into the world, I guess I was three years old, inflation was above 20%. She did not go under 20% until I was 19. From the age of three to 19, it was always 20%, and normally it was much higher, 40, 50, 60% inflation. She went over 100% at one point. These times are the times when insurance was recorded. During the past decade and the years of this century, it has been characterized by much less inflation, but it is still too much, and thus growth is still too high and all that has been right here, including this. When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, that most ordinary employees are grounded under the bars of this interest. It's just the way it is. What we need to do as a community is to build bridges more closely between government activities and the labour market and what is happening in the Secret Bank so that we can get a better grip on this. During this season, inflation has been low, not just because it has been so successful in this cooperation, but also because we have brought in an inflation. What has happened here is still some of the symptoms of what we've had for too long, that things don't talk too well together. For example, we are probably taking out more money now than we can imagine. Are we able to catch soft landings after that? That will be a very challenging assignment. But all of this is the fact that we are working in the spirit of a new law on government government government government contracts and that we combine all years to more stability, less inflation, and less interest. [[The president calls.]] This can be done. We haven't been able to do this through the years, but I believe we're at a certain breakthrough right now with the SALEK meeting and a new government release laws. [[The president calls.]] Hopefully, there are better times for the younger generation than the ones I was describing in the 1970s of 1990.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u37	V.E.G. President. I'm here recommending the opinion of the Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee on the Generals' report in 2014, under the opinion of literature, as well as for me. paritaprevir The Birgitta Birgir of Ármannsson, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Braunnr Níelsson, Helgi Hjörvar Þórsson Thorhsson, Lára Lara Arnardóttir, Árnason Hjörnsson, and Pétursdóttir, the daughter of Peters, an officer of the committee, is in agreement with this opinion. Also, on September 22, 2015, we met with an agent of the Generals at the Committee meeting and discussed the matter at a meeting of committees 12, 17. 26th November last fall. An overview of the activity of the office in 2014 is presented in the Aldus agency's report to the main elements of the agent's work. The committee's meetings discussed key tips in the report, as well as the ones to which an agent called attention. It specifically discussed the initiative issues, which I will later come to in my case, and the preemptive value they have for the administrations as well as the potential for improving the quality of the service they are to provide to the citizens. The report reports that the number of cases in favor of General's office has increased in recent years, leaving 300 and up to 500 complaints a year, an increase of about 40%. The commission is that the increased number of cases over the past few years is clear evidence of two things: the trust gained by an agent; and the increased sense of justice in citizens, in the public. We'll discuss the website of the Generals agent, and we'll put it in the context of the fact that 50 to 60% of the agents who are in charge of the Council's agent's office are dismissed after the inspection from the office, where they do not meet legal requirements for a agent to be able to discuss them. This is the home page because it is very important in our opinion that the public is well aware of the charges that exist within the administration, including on the website of the office, and that they are emptied before anyone returns to the office of the agent. That is why we give this information to a high priority in the operation of the Trustee of the Allied Council. We discussed the site of the agent of the General Assembly, and we found that the work and situation of this office are much like what happens in other Norwegian countries. There are a number of opinions that are comparable to those that are discussed in other countries. There was a matter worthy of attention, for Icelandic legislation is based on law code in other Norwegian countries, where we have attended many, and it has developed that law - directed officials look to the northern countries. Then there is a point in the case of the emissary Generalis, which we thought was sobering. It is this: Within the administration, there is difficulty, knowledge of Norwegian languages, cross - back, and a small percentage of government officials are not speaking in the Norwegian language. So there is a certain understanding. On the one hand, we have laws based on no - based laws, but then we have people who cannot read or work with these languages. The Commission believes that this is the case, and it feels that there is a need for attention to promote education in Norwegian languages and to promote normatic cooperation within the administration. That's our food. This Norwegian cooperation has saved the Icelands enormous sums of money, especially in the area of law in time. We are to take these indications very seriously upon my judgment, and they were called upon to do so. I again took back the importance of educational material on a website, and we also call it in our summary that training and re-education have to be done more systematically than done and done by government personnel. Thereafter, the number of cases connected with government officials has increased. An agent of the General Assembly showed that the increase is primarily rooted in the change in the work environment of public employees, i.e. more labour market problems. Pointed agent on, and here I quote, by permission of the president, directly in our summary: ▪... that the legal basis would not be lacking but would be lacking in those who handle personnel matters with the government had enough knowledge and experience in applying the rules that apply to public employees. Thus, there is a management problem for those who are to handle personnel matters with the government rather than with insufficient legal ground. The committee agrees with that viewpoint and believes that it is important to work at informing officials of this series. As we move toward the speed of words, we believe that the office needs sufficient funding to shorten its time, and this will be done with increasing numbers of people. But I'd like to make one very clear: General's senior emissary has been made available to other public agencies, as it is called, to suffer cuttings, especially during the times of distress, by changes in practice. The office has been very successful in solving letters, making the whole process more specific. In times of trial, there is reason to commend the office for responding in a positive and upbuilding way. In this regard, we refer to the simple process of the entire case. That's part of that thought. Then comes the initiative. It is the assessment of the management and monitoring committee that there is an aspect we need to do well and that the office should be able to do good. We stressed on the Board of Directors and Control that the office of the Trustee of the Generals would get extra funds to do this role. It was too bad that my last budget was off, and I allow it to be directed to the point. The legislature board to review these matters specifically in making budgets for the coming year. It has been shown that the initiatives are entrusted with saving, in the long run, and that they contribute to better administrative management. We have a fine comment on this: To block the well before the baby falls into it. That's part of that thought. We make it clear that the office will be made available to take the initiative, which requires additional financial resources. That money didn't come in the last budget, but I rest assured that it is desirable that it will be revised for the coming budget year. We deal with the prejudicial and execution of all, and there we deal with various factors, matters that have happened to the office. We will particularly discuss the approval of the Generals to implement the so-called OPAAT commitments involved in torture and brutal, inhuman and disrespectful treatment of people, but in this order we should ensure monitoring by the independent Rapporteur. There is an opinion where to store such a checkup. This, in turn, has to do with another matter that we also draw special attention to, i.e. police surveillance. In recent years and in recent years, I'd like to mention some factors. First, it is in a paper with a bill I presented as a former head of state on police surveillance that the Senate should consider this matter and that it should be in the council to find a way to monitor law enforcement. Then there is a Parliamentary proposal made by the Piranha to establish a special agency for this role, and it is the subject of the Council decision, in effect, directly to the Presidency Committee. V.E.G. The Minister of the Interior State has given an opinion on the matter, arranged a committee, and raised a great deal of discussion about it. Is that truly praiseworthy? Forethought is a common meeting with the highest. The Minister of the I.R. and the Board of Directors and the Commission and the General Board to discuss these matters. V.E.G. The Minister of the Interior has proclaimed such a meeting, and I welcome it. I wouldn't be surprised if we looked into these issues in context, on the one hand, the monitoring of these OPCAT bonds, which are about the torture and inhuman treatment of people who have been saved from institutions, and then with the police. Whatever the final outcome will be, and where these matters will be saved, there is another story. It is important for me not to rush into these matters. We are not in the same mood as many European countries are dealing with problems other than Icelanders. They have secret organisations and need additional surveillance on top of the intelligence services. We're a little on another bus as far as it goes. On the other hand, I feel that such supervision is very urgent and that in some way it is possible to find an established route. Then there's something the agent makes a special comment, and I believe we should stop. It is when authority is transferred from counsellors to independent governments, to decision - making committees. Then the decision - making committees receive final ruling authority, as the committees call it, but the responsibility for the case is still at the Ministry and the Minister who has nothing to do with the project. After U.S. government agent has made comments on the work of these decision - making committees, it has occurred in at least two cases that they are not taken into account. Of course, the emissary of the Generals has no legal authority in these matters, but because the authority has been moved from a minister, it is important to consider the opinions of the emissary of the Generals. But it has not been done, and it can be found in our report that people can access to the Generals website. I don't have time for this special case. Men have looked to the northern countries in these areas and have said that they are similar, but the fundamental difference exists between our situation and what happens in other parts of the North countries that there is, at least in some states, the administrative districts to which decisions can be made. We don't have a court like that. In such a situation, it is entirely different from the fact that these ruling committees take into account indications that come from an FBI agent and have been very supportive in my opinion. This is a law base directed by a board of directors and patrols to the Generals to take a special look at. Then it is also of interest that in matters under the Ministry that have been rejected by a state attorney for decision or investigation, the Ministry and Minister responsible for the category of press feel that they are entirely responsible. It is with him, but not with a state lawyer to find the final result or with the decision - making committees that still operate on lawsuits and make decisions on delicate matters. Finally, we believe it is very important that the Allied agent continues to be the security valve he is for the citizens of this country. The committee reiterates the government's obligation to provide an agent with the information he wishes for the end is the basis for him to carry out the important task given him by the General, to monitor the executive and how it serves the citizens. The Commission reviews the need for governments to follow the recommendations of an agent. Of course, it is true that an agent like all of us is not infallible, but the fact is that the office has worked very well on very clearly, professionally, grammatical grounds, and if so, and the government is receiving tips from this office based on such practices is to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u38	President. I don't always know if you're going to give a special talk or give an answer that I'm not going to object to anything that has been presented here. I think I've been doing it every year since I arrived at the council to commend the office of the Generals, and I don't want to let it go so now. There's a problem in the administration department that shows that people don't speak the northern languages. People may not have to speak the national language, but it's natural that people are locked in that language. I wondered, " Is it now in the administration business that the Andrew books were translated into Icelandic, because I think we are? ' In Danish, a senator has become both a reader and a reader of the Andrew magazines in his day. But that's different. So, then, why not consider setting up some good school within the administration? This foreign language is not only spoken of but also of the personnel. I remember an agent who had previously thought that public employees do not know - and, for example, the administrative law, he has often talked about it. However, he did not speak specifically of it now. I wondered: " Is there anything I can do to help you rather than keep talking about this as a problem? Should this exactly be the responsibility for public employees to attend a course during the first three months of their employment? Should we suggest that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u39	V.E.G. President. I think this is a really good idea. A potential source of information may be considered, and it has come from the office of the General Agent, who points for such work. I think it's a very good idea for men to sit down and review basics in the administration and in the Icelandic law, to people who are supposed to work with these laws and to know the rights of citizens. What is needed in the entire administration, reminding it that it has become the means to serve the citizens of this country. It's for society. Of course, she would have to know the laws and rights that people have toward the administration, those who then exercise control and authority. I think it's a good idea, and to take it seriously, wherever it would be exactly, whether it would be an institution or a school or like a dog. A senator mentions, and I agree, that there will be a course; that these matters will be arranged in an orderly manner. They do not hurt to read one or two Andrew magazines on the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u40	A respectable president. I'd like to step in on the initiative, because I couldn't help but agree. A senator and we have had this discussion before. I wholeheartedly agree with him and with the Commission that a initiative taken by an agent is a matter of enormous importance. This office was one of the best ones to follow the instructions given during the trying years to truly gather. That was done by this office, the program was conducted by the Generals, in a clear and decisive manner. Then the initiative became out of place, and it was more urgent to take care of other matters that came directly from the citizens. On the other hand, let us not forget that an agent has also taken up a highly important initiative case. There's a little poison in my bones that when the council funded, it tells institutions how to use it. It's a little difficult for me, but I agreed to it in these matters. But do we have any other way? Is this to be better? And if it's also a question of our own, when the fund is given that we really go through the legal process? When spreading funds to the public institutions, we must not do so in a way that allows them to carry out their legal assignments. [[The president calls.]] But we're not supposed to do any special work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u41	V.E.G. President. I agree that what the council does and should do is talk about goals and priorities that focus on goals, whether it is information or initiative, etc. However, our suggestions and emphasis, which were given for increased contributions to the Generalist, were based on indications from the office itself. Of course, it is up to us to weigh what we want to do with it. It was the unanimous conclusion of the Committee, and it has been for a long time, such as the dog. A senator knows very well as the former chairman of this committee, that the emphasis has been on enabling the office to take more initiative than it has been to do and to do. This requires man - made men, individual or individual, who carry out this assignment in particular. That's what we've heard from the agent's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u42	A respectable president. I'm here recommending the opinion of the legal committee on the 2013 State Review Report. This report has been covered in a large amount of work on a budget or on this opinion, which was well covered in the 2013 state account. We made comments at 46 points in the balance account, and we called our guests to review the points in which we felt that they were a mistake. It should be noted that, at the beginning, a respectable president, under this opinion, all committees will be writing to a financial committee. Plus me. Councilmen of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Ásmundur Daðason Daldason, Gunnarsdóttir Olsen Gnarsdóttir, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir, and Páll Jóhann Pálsson. The committee is in agreement with this opinion. This is not a political opinion, but, above all, professionally, things that would have been more fortunately permitted, etc. In the first place, for a detailed discussion, the budgetary committee had a General Review Report on the 2013 State Accounting Report. We were contacted by representatives of the State Reconnaissance and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs in the processing of this opinion. The Committee also asked for written explanations on the various indications and comments presented in the State Review Report, Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, State Technologies and Justice. It should be possible to establish a team of workers on a budget board, which included the chairman of a legal committee and the vice president of a legal committee, as well as a representative from each body of members, from the left green, from the bright future, and from the United States. The representatives of their party were sharp. Councilmen Oddný Harðardóttir, Bjarkey Olsen and Brynhildur Pétursdóttir. With this opinion, we wanted to try to draw out key comments on the State Review of each year, to consider them as a financial committee, and to make formal recommendations for improvement. We wanted to encourage discussions about surveillance and budgeting with the goal of laying the foundation for a better and disciplined government of government. This opinion was thus developed that i.e. i. e. i. e. i. e. i. e. i. e. e. the main tips and comments of the Agency were made. This document contains indications from the Agency and is toyed. Then it is suggested that the answers to these parties are yet to be made and that the decision or opinion of the World Committee on the answers considered relevant. I'm just going to read here every detail of the 46 that we specifically considered; we came to our guests, and then we concluded at the end, a respectable president: First, we made comments to the entry in progress and to walk in capital accounts. That's where we tore up the rules of accounting based on the balance of state accounts. There's been a number of opinions at stakes, in the Ministry of Economics and in the Federal Reconclusions, on how to settle accounts for the state. If it is made up, as it has repeatedly been noted, then the government budget is 30 billion less than shown in terms of government account. However, there is now a agreement in this case between State Review and the Ministry of finance and that agreement was made in its subsequent and premeditation that there were new laws on public finance; these differences are due to be gone to the end of the entire future, and this law will take effect 2017. So I'm glad it came up there, and we handled it. But then we're going to have to follow this closely, and we're going to be asked, "How are these less than 30 billion in the future in the books of the state? ' It makes them vulnerable. If the State is run like a company on a market, and according to the terms of reckoning indicated by the State's Accounting, it will make a lot of money. We then moved on to reimbursement of the state's Pension bonds. The Penitentiary is on tables every month, and the state is on a large minus the government's budget. We took it and wrote an opinion about the point that a financial committee, as noted earlier, points out that the current remuneration arrangements have a significant impact on government management, causing an unsatisfactory miscalculation in the State's deliberation. The decision was then made to include a discussion of this in the Committee opinion of a greater proportion of the budgets of 2016, where it was tried to evaluate the actual Penitentiary of State Pension bonds. This was done, and we've talked a lot about, more than a section of the budget, that it was put in government accounts so that everyone is aware of the tremendous amount of money involved, since this is the future debt of the state. In my opinion and the greater part of the budget board, there is no point in moving the transfers to conceal or postpone the problems of the financial debt of the state's funds for the long time. We also agreed that other framing commitments should come into the economy of the State Fund. Obviously, then, it is a clean position, and it was a good thing to bring it in. Then we went further into the pension fund, the total payment for the A-intern Penitentiary Fund of government employees. We retorted on the view that the SR administration must ensure that the department is responsible for commitment. The Commission feels it is unacceptable that the State Reconnaissance and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs has not been resolved on the trauma of the A-section's Penitentiary. This seems to be an eternity project, but hopefully it will move to a better source when the new government laws of government take effect and the government will be moved, as they say. We don't think that it's unacceptable that the government agencies don't make a manifest. It will be incorporated into the public financial law, and this has been done in a better way. Now, this classic dot is about a negative binding on the money of some institutions of the state. In this opinion, when written, the road structure is negatively bound to its own amount of over 17.3 billion by the end of 2013 due to the decision of the Agency's payment on market income. In some way, this has to be 0 when the government budget is implemented. It seems quickly that if you don't want this great angle brought into the coming year - I don't know what the plan will be, whether it will be over or what it will be, but it's the Ministry of finance that has the task of solving it. We also took into account what the State's Accounting report says about the need to establish tax payback laws. We completely agree with this point, so we're directed to the Ministry of Economics and Economics to start the work of a bill in that case. So something needs to be handled. Then a government accountant points out that the risks that the government fund can face need to be explained. We believe that the greatest financial risk factors facing the state's budget are natural, as well as other risk factors to be taken into account. Last night we had a public opinion at a meeting of the budget board. It stated, for example, that there is no firm limit in these major commitments, that it is normal to be identified in government accounts that there is this risk to the potential pay that the state fund should make because of judicial cases that are going on each year and that the budget was fully up to that point. Period 10 is a review of the rules of reimbursement of state funds in companies and institutions. We agree with that point. They're gonna have to make a hallway out there. A detailed discussion of progress was made to an apartment loan fund. A government accountant made serious comments on the subject of an apartment loan fund, and we took care of it, and we came to our guest about this point as well as for the financial resources of the Substitute Bank. A new source of money was considered in the New World Fund of industry. We talked about sharing in the share and money of an enterprise in Part B and Part E that they weren't registered in Part A State Fund. We went over a team that we call a grouping of contributions to the IDA. In other words, the contribution made to the International Agency is to be classified as a fund or to a management enterprise. A respectable president. This is a point that came up at a meeting of the budget board last night with a Government Review when we were considering the issues of 2014. Most of the scenes considered to be the legal committee dolls back up. But I confirmed that they had declined, and I guess they had something to say. We also discussed commitments and payments because of funds and institutions abroad, payment on bail due to bankruptcy, exchange demand, bank prices, bank prices, bank prices, bank prices. We've been talking about the National Penitentiary Fund with the B Company Pension Fund. It's not one way to get this pension fund to come together. We have experimented on a financial committee that these Pension Funds are to be grouped together, resulting in a lot of economic gains, as nurses'payments are under legal obligation, which is 800 persons to keep a pension fund outside. But it seems there are great interests behind the fact that in both funds, there are governments and we know what the pension fund is doing every year, many billions are, as we have seen. But this hasn't happened yet, even though we've presented this in our opinion and discussed it with the partner. The system seems to defend itself in this way, despite the general will of Congress. We also studied the retirement fund of the workers of Iceland's Road Bank, that it will be laid down, and that has not yet been made up. We discussed the need for financial reform with our communities, and only these have been included, for example, in contracts made for the sake of the case of the disabled now in the 2016 budget. But better still, if it works, and there are quite a number of things that the communities think they are loaded around, so I think that this is a good time to look at it. The rural communities called it a gray area, and we got the organization to a financial committee meeting where it was covered. I think it's in one of 20 teams what the locals are making comments. Then we talked about a day's payout under the currency of pensionpayers. We took over the government funds on the pension bonds of nursing homes, and there's a long chapter on this, and it was attacked by a government fund that would take this over in a few nursing homes. We went over that it would be necessary to move the stated Penitentiary of Iceland's Bank to the New Lands Bank. There is something that was discussed back then, and the FDA talked to Iceland's Bank, the old bank. It was in a way that the State's Accounting and the Food Department disagreed on how to solve this case, but I understand that this case was left still because otherwise the emergency law had to be compromised. So we agree that the State's Accounting and the UN disagree on how to solve this problem. We discussed a risky review. We discussed that executives should not be able to set up expenses on the basis of a provincial minister and members of Congress. That's something we took our minds to the budget. We discussed that government bill is not a balance account, but it changes with the government law on finance. We discussed the financial situation of Grímá ehf. It's an old case. It was the Federal of the College of Farming at Ithnun. We discussed the share of the state's property in savings, the office of the Secret Bank and the role of the Secret Bank, the assessments of information systems, the security of the state's computer systems. We discussed the need to shape the use of clouding technology, the improvement in government services, and the increase in economic efficiency. We discussed plans for the companies of retails and the posts of the major income parties, the occupies of capital taxes, the payment of insurance on the pension fund for disability, the operation of deduction accounts, the dissociation of commitments brought on by the State's economy. We discussed fluctuations in the cost of domestic products and services, and we discussed problems with insurance bills, about the survival of Icelandic students, and the last point was the survival of Harpa, music, and conference hall. A respectable president. This is quite thorough, and time is not great to discuss these matters and those opinions. But I would tell those watching this broadcast that this case can be found on the Generals' Web site. 351 in the 305 case, so you can especially read about each point that we made a comment. As I said at the outset, first there are comments made by the Government Accounting on the subject. Then the matter is tore up, and then every point ends that a financial committee presents itself. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u43	Mr. President. Much effort has been made in the opinion of budgetary committees on the 2013 State Review Report on State Accounting. It's 2016 and it's never a good time to discuss a case so long later. Like what? The head of the Committee reviewed the same guidelines for years. It's been very slow over the years to get through certain aspects of the government business far back in time and is, in fact, still that way, as noted by the state reexamination last night over the course of 2014, and there are comments that are contained here. It is true that some of the factors that have been dealt with and have produced fruit if you can say so have paid off. This is important, although I am not necessarily its spokesman or think that the government law solves all creations. I feel that there's something in the discussion about them that everything will change, and then there will be some new financial system. But that's what we're going to do after people somehow do something wrong with them. I don't see that it can't happen with the new law, too. Admittedly, discipline should be offered more and better. I sure hope it will be. So we've also discussed how the government account is transferred and what the outcome would be if it were normally taken. You might wonder, " Why, on a large scale of government funds, has allowed me to move his account in a way that would enhance its beauty in 2013 about less than 30 billion and 2014 about less than 40, reminds me. A financial committee would like to change this, and I would have wanted to see it happen when we make up 2014, although the government law directly handles this, it will not be meaningful until 2017. I don't think we need to be stuck in the same footsteps and ignore these tips just until the law forces us to deal with them, because it's official opinion that it should be moved this way. I choose to follow it, and I trust it to be that way. I think we're supposed to put it on a budget board that the years up to the level of public funds will be put in place as requested by the State Accounting Board. A public review shows the need to make an appeal to the economy. I think it's very important that the pension commitments and other activities be made so we can see the real status of state funds. I can't skate past negative bound personal funds that we've talked about in a Senate hall and I've talked a lot about, because it's mostly about the road. I'm pretty sure that when people in the hall voted for certain projects that are outside the market of Vega's income, when it is being given that kind of money, as the government did in the summers, where she gave large sums without going through the traditional process, I don't think the senators paid a vote by which they would owe a debt of state, but it was an additional contribution to the Vegas. But it's made as if it's a debt to a government fund, which said it's negative to your own money, which, of course, doesn't exist because you can't have so much minus in your own money. In order to understand this, members of the body would need to hear this discussion. I hope people discuss this in their own study, because it's important. I am convinced that such records are not like many members of the Parliament think they are. Also, I think it's important, we talked only yesterday that the risks of a government account and it's transferred into the state account so that it can be seen, as it was yesterday at the meeting because of 2014, that if the state fund is in lawsuits, although it's not a great sum of money, something is brought in so that we can figure out whether we could expect a huge commitments because of that. I think it's fine, and I hope it's done, and we're going to put it on a budget committee that's going to be done right now in the 2014 account. This is a very short time. In terms of the day's expenses, it is stated that a financial committee reimburses his opinion, that the budget of pension is expected to be financed in the annual expenses. I am not quite convinced in my heart after hearing in all these nursing homes that it is the case, for there is a reason why they are all in great trouble. I think we need to have these daily expenses calculated for us, and there's no doubt, we might just have to call for it to the Committee and take special care of the nursing services and the institutions that the state is paying for, that they are clearly paying for all the normal expenses and so on, these pensions. On some grounds, the highest decided. Health Minister to settle with the specialised institutions that are not of the local community on pensions, but not with the rurals, which I feel are a certain recognition of the lack of the day's pay for this operation. I think this is something we're supposed to take care of. Figure 31 on page 24. 18 is about the National Bank properties and its role. It's fine. This committee agrees with Government Accounting on the comment that a state accountant has expressed his view that it is not the Secret Bank's job to do so much business on a public market. We have an unsubstantiated bill. Secretary of finance about hiding large business, property, and sales from the Sensitors. I think, based on the body of a financial committee, we must agree that there is something that cannot go on as it has been presented. At the end of this, I'm going to talk about the negative situation between the years and the National Accounting indication that there will be some rules or formal procedure so that a minister must directly explain all the abnormalities, to what measures the Ministry has taken, and then the Council would discuss the matter, conclude on it, and decide. A public review suggests a process that I think we need to take seriously. This is shown in the 2014 State Calculation comments. There's something that we saw when a donation was dropped to the Southside businessman, reminds me, and the Land Hospital and any one person we saw, it was the more informal way that if people stayed within the framework to three years, they would get 2/3 of their debt to the state's debt. If it is willing to do it formally, do it. There are other indications that I think we should take into consideration. As I said earlier, I don't think we should wait until 2017 to fix it, but I think we should do it right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u44	A respectable president. This may not sound as exciting as the most exciting subject in the world, the opinion of the budget committee on the 2013 State Review Report. Amazingly, though, the work being done by a panel of budgetors in connection with it was very interesting and I would say that it was important, because a review of the state account on the part of the State Accounting isn't something to be placed in a drawer and forgotten there. Now we've got the state bill of 2014 and we'll actually start the same job with it. Then it will be exciting to see if we can cross some of the items from the list that we can see in the opinion of the body of legal committee. Certainly, something is now changing that has been shown to be the appearance of the new laws on public finances. But everything that has been considered to be possible is something we consider to be a better look at. I encourage a Senate system to slide over because it is so suggested that it is easy to handle the issue, and then the opinion of the body members is specifically outlined. I'm not going to go slide through this document. People just read it. Here are other members of the committee who do so. I look forward to dealing with the state accounts of 2014 and the comments of the Government Accounting in his case. I'm glad that we four members of the committee have done this work well and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u45	Mr. President. The decision was made when a budget committee was discussing the balance of the year 2009 that the committee would continue to address the current state account of each year and submit its conclusions to the Council in a form of a report that would be considered at the council meeting. The purpose of this is, first, to draw out key comments on the State Review of each year, to consider them by the legal committee, and to make formal recommendations for improvement. Second, encourage discussion of oversight and funding with the aim of setting the foundation for a better and disciplined government of government. We'll discuss a report on the 2013 State account review. That's what we're doing in the spring of 2016, so we're a little behind. As we have seen, this report was long finished but is now being scheduled. Regarding the goals we set for ourselves by working on a report like this, all the committees, I think it's important that we keep doing this. There is certainly reason to consider how the Court's Accounting and tips of the budget are being carried out, and we in the council are expected to push and perform our role. This report discusses 46 points. Some of them overlap, and in a short time it is not possible to cross the entire 46 team, but I want to pause at a few things. First, as mentioned here, it is negative to its own money. Most of it is negative to its own money at Vega's. When we consider the 2013 state bill, it's 17.3 billion. In order to explain this better, and I think it's very important that all the senators realize that, then, when we agree to make more contributions to Vega, we're agreeing to the debt of the Roadmaker growing and we're taking a loan on the future markets of the Roadmaker. I admit that I didn't realize it until we went over this on a budget committee that this was the case. This is always added to the debt of the Roadmaker, and how does it end? In 2013 the debt is 17,3 billion. We were at the council yesterday discussing the need to make further repairs, whether for maintenance or for new projects. If we go beyond market income, if we don't change this, it'll be even more of a debt on the Vegas. This point, for example, is highlighted in this report. I think it's absolutely necessary for all members of Congress to realize this. I'd like to stop at dot number 8, which is entitled 'Environment' and I'll need tax-power legislation. Government reviews, therefore, are directed to the Generals to investigate the possibility of giving specific tax-authority legislation that would allow for tax management and the duration to be limited in all cases. This, of course, is to be the case. The position should then be reviewed and if there is any reason to have an IRS or to support an enterprise, e.g. by giving taxes. There would be very important information in terms of government accounts, if there were to be a list of which companies have taxpayers and they are expected. At the same time, we would have a definition of what we believe to be a scholarship to taxes or a government grant. What do we believe to be such a strength? We strengthen by various ways of working from our common fund because we feel that some of it is important to maintain it. What about a business like travel service, so I'll give you a close-up example, which is on the merit of a tax level, an extra step, with food and books? Why should this big business enjoy these taxes? Or is this not a tax charge to this article because a tax tax tax is an acquitted tax? There are these things that I find very important to explain. Since such information may be available and definitions, we can discern how we are building up and what we are from our common funds. A review of this emphasis, and a financial committee points to the budget and the Ministry of Economics to initiate the implementation of a bill on this subject and to reevaluate its opinion as presented by review of the state accounts in 2011 and 2012, and is like this, by permission of the President: A Gaming Committee stresses that in budgets each year, there is a programme that shows the extent of tax reform, and then there will be a comparison of real figures each year. The review will be made in the form proposed by the Kingdom Review Centre. I think if the Ministry doesn't take this assignment, I think we should do it on a budget committee and we should settle over it. Of course, it would be better for the Ministry to do this with all its employees and experts, but if not, I feel that this is an assignment for a financial committee. Time is running fast, Mr. President. I would also like to mention comments on the debt of Pension, which has been paid to nursing homes that are self-employed institutions. Funds in 2014 were decided to propose the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs that the General agreed to pay the pension debt of 2.5 billion to the nurses who are private or self-employed. There was a debate between parties, as is well explained in this report as to whether the pension bonds were involved in the daily expenses or not. V.E.G. The 2014 financial and economic secretary is taking the initiative to pay these commitments to autodiversity institutions, but the nursing homes run by the rural communities are responsible for their pensional commitments. This is where I feel very important, if it has been adopted that it was wrong to have been paid in the day's expenses and paid for by certain institutions, then it needs to be done in a comparable way to the nursing homes run by the rural communities. Just at the end of the line, Mr. President, that's point number 32, the assessment of information systems. According to a public review, the importance of being assigned to a service requires an accountant to gain a specific confirmation that the internal surveillance of these factors works. The internal surveillance of the service providers is what they're talking about. I can't get through the entire point, but the whole point is if a service is issued, internal Affairs needs to be in order and the requirements for a good government should be in order. Mr. President. I like this job. I hope we on the budget continue to learn from going through federal accounts. In 2014, we are at our table now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u46	President. I recommend here to the Committee to conduct a bill to correct the conversion of shipping laws, traffic laws and transport accidents as a result of the implementation of EEA regulations. The Committee's panel of committees suggests that changes in shipping laws include the provision for the rights of passengers who travel in seawaters or by boating lakes. Second, changes in traffic laws are suggested by subsequent changes. It suggests a modified definition of motorcycles and heavy equipment and, on the other hand, a ticket if the manufacturer, manufacturer's representative, importer or manufacturer of a vehicle submits the wrong information on the specification theory for recognition. Third, changes in transport accidents laws are proposed. The reasons for these changes are indicated by the ESA that there may be an inconsistencies between Icelandic law and Regulation and the content of Directive 2009/18/EC and other types taken up in the EEA Convention that have already been established. Part of this decision was instituted by regulations. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. She received visitors who did not make meaningful comments, not so that there is any reason to change the matter in any way, so it is suggested that the matter be agreed on as it should. Under these circumstances, all those present had the assessment of the environment and transport committee meetings; why? paritaprevir and president of the Committee, Höddor the son of Þórhallsson, and why. The men of Katrín, the daughter of Júlíusdóttir, Birg the Birgir of Ármannsson, Elín Hirst, Willim the Árnason of Arnam, and the one standing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u47	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision of the joint EEA no. 115/2015 on the change in XIII. Annexes on transport and XIX. An Annex on consumer protection at the EEA Convention. The committee has discussed the matter and has been Þorsteinsdóttir by the State Aðalheiður of Ministers I. and the Ministry of State and Bjore Björnsson. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 115/2015, from 30 April 2015, on the change in Annexes for Transport and Annexes for consumer protection and to enter the contract of the Council and Council Regulation (EEC) No. 181/2011 of February 16, 2011, on the right of a passenger in a group of vehicles and on the change of regulations from 2006 to the European Commission Regulation. Six months' delay in the EEA Convention was provided for the recovery of controlled warning to 30 October 2015. The presentation of the proposal following the review by the Committee is in accordance with Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. This Regulation, which is No. 181/2011, is intended to improve the rights and the protection of passengers in the country as much as the rights of consumers and airport passengers. Most of the regulations in this Regulation take place solely on plan travel, which is at least 250 miles [250 km]. However, some of the laws also apply to short - term trips. For further explanation, the Regulation is aimed at ensuring that passengers traveling at least 250 miles [250 km] will receive adequate assistance, such as refreshment, food, or stay, if there is a more precise delay. As stated in the opinion of the Committee, this also discusses reimbursement or rephrasing due to the review of travel or delay over 120 minutes. It also speaks of damages, damages, and the right to information, and the right to free assistance, for disabled and motorized persons at groups of automobile stations and on board groups of vehicles. The travels of their assistants must also be at their expense. The measures involved in driving a group of short and long-term vehicles prohibit the segregation of passengers in terms of transport and availability, and are reimbursed on the disability, motor impairment, or ethnicity differences. It then provides minimal information guidelines for passengers, to form their rights and travel information and for the independent organisations in each Member State to comply with the Regulation. Finally, the mandatory training of drivers in the transport of motorized passengers is required in a safe manner. Iceland has the authority to allow for the introduction of this law to March 1, 2018. In addition, Iceland has the authority to allow temporary discharge to March 1, 2017, from certain regulations set out in the regulations of the Regulation that begin with a group of vehicles within the country. Internal Ministers are expected to submit the current Council of the bill to new laws on public transport that would improve under controlled regulations. The protocol may increase the cost of the operator, and it is right to be able to produce a group of vehicles on a strategy trip. At that time, a Transporter will need a system to receive the complaint about travel in a group of automobiles, similar to what is present today, and will turn to flight passengers. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. At that point, everyone stands still. State Department members, except for Elín Hirst and Karl Garðarsson, who were absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u48	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 116/2015 on the change in XIII. Annexes for transport operations and XIX. Annexes for consumer protection, with the EEA Convention. The committee has discussed the matter at its meetings and has been Þorsteinsdóttir by the State Aðalheiður of State and the Ministry of State's Chiefs and Bjorey Björnsson. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision made by the joint EEA on the change in the environmental information on transport and consumer protection and to enter the contract of the Council Regulation and the Council Regulation No. 1177/2010 from 24 November 2010 on the rights of passengers traveling on sea or shipways and changing the Regulation No. 2006/2004. Six months' delay in the EEA Convention was provided for the recovery of controlled warning to 30 October 2015. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the State Department in accordance with Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. Protocol No. 1177/2010 is aimed at ensuring that a passenger's license on the sea and ships of water routes will be comparable to the right of an allied airliner to a passenger in the country. Whether it is flying, sailing, or moving abroad, consumer protection is consistent with consumer protection. In this way, the Regulation prohibits the discrimination of passengers in terms of transport conditions as well as forbids the discrimination of disabled and motorists. The responsibility of the operators in the event of an accident, the availability of disabled persons and people with impaired mobility, a passenger's rights, and the related operator's management at travel time, an information operator, and the speed of emergency treatment in connection with violations of the competent passenger. It includes all types of ships that are responsible for commercial transport in seawaters and coastal lakes. The exception of the measures taken are passengers who have three or fewer crews and go no more than 500 m other way, ships on sight and view trips, except for cruise ships that spend three or more nights on board, and old ships with historic significance, are built for 1965, and over 36 passengers or less. Implementation calls for changes in sailing laws, No. 34/1985, with subsequent changes. The protocol may increase the cost of the operators who run ships that fall under its standards. At that time, a Transporter will need a system to receive the complaints from travel to the sea, similar to what is now available, and he will turn to flight passengers. The committee suggests that the proposal will be passed on, and under it all the representatives wrote on the subject. The Foreign Affairs Committee, with the exception of what? Councilmen Elín Hirst and Karl Garðarsson, who were absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u49	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision of the joint EEA no. 188/2015 on the change in XIII. Annex (portation) to the EEA Convention. The opinion comes from what happened. State Department. In order to clarify this point at the outset, this directive refers to a change in the directive in terms of pollution that originates on board ships and the induction of violations. The Commission has discussed the situation and has received its meeting with the Directories of I. Þorsteinsdóttir from the State Department of State and Kjartan Ingvarsson from the Environment and Resource Ministry. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 188/2015, from July 10, 2015, of the change in XIII. The Annex to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and to enter the Convention Directive of the European Parliament and Council 2009/123/EC of 21 October 2009 for the change in 2005/35/EC Directive as stated earlier, there is about pollution that originates on board ships and the induction of violations. On January 10, 2016, a six month delay in the EEA Convention was given to lift a administrative notice. The proposal's presentation is considered, in view of that. Foreign Affairs Committee in accordance with Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The 2005/35/EC Directive was adopted in the EEA Convention 2009. The change in Directive 2009/13/EC includes further emphasis on violating marine pollution regulations from ships punished under penal or special law. The responsibility for punishment may be equal to individuals and legalists and the conditions of such responsibilities are general scathing conditions, intents, or gross inadequacies, along with a loss of quality of water. It is not expected that minor offenses will be punished that do not reduce the quality of the water but that repeated violations will lead to penalties. The directive does not include conditions for application, and its jurisdiction depends on the laws of each State on its own. The directive therefore commands only what sort of environmental violations should be considered guilty, who should bear the responsibility, and what sort of wrongdoing participation should be considered to be punishable. Punishment is also not part of the EEA Convention, but because it is a change in Directive 2005/35/EC, which has already been adopted in the EEA Convention, and the purpose of the directive is to conform the judicial principle to violations against these legislation, adjustment to the recording of the model made in the EEA Convention, which included the declaration that the record did not have a precedent for other legislation that included a judicial statute. Induction of this directive requires a change in law No. 33/2004, defense against pollution of the sea and coastal areas. However, the need to evaluate whether the cooperation of environmental authorities, the police and the prosecution should be adjusted in the face of environmental threats. However, it will also need extra funding to the police to make sure that it is possible to investigate the fractions reported in accordance with the directive's objective. Hv. The State Department suggests that this body of eulogy proposal will be accepted. Hv. Senators Elín Hirst and Karl Garðarsson were absent from the case; otherwise a foreign legal committee is behind this proposal, i.e. The one standing here, boy. Senators Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, Chairman Sigurjónsson Sigránjonsson, Óttarr Proppé, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason and Össur Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u50	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision of the joint EEA no. 191/2015 of the change in XX. Annex (environment) to the EEA Convention. In English it may be said that it deals with the protection of the environment by judicial decisions. The Commission has discussed the situation and has received its meeting with the Directories of I. Þorsteinsdóttir from the State Department of State and Kjartan Ingvarsson from the Environment and Resource Ministry. This proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 191/2015, of July 10, 2015, of the change in XX. An Annex (EEC) to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and to enter the Treaty of the European Parliament and Council 2008/99/EC of November 19, 2008, which, as previously said, is for environmental protection by legal action. On January 10, 2016, a six month delay in the EEA Convention was given to lift a administrative notice. The proposal's presentation is considered, in view of that. Foreign Affairs Committee, in accordance with Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The 2008/99/EC Directive includes the implementation of judicial regulations to protect the environment more effectively. Member States must ensure that violations of violations are effective, are consistent with violations and have a warning effect. It is the kind of conduct that is specific in the type of punishment if it is not in accordance with law and regulations and is committed deliberately or deliberately unscrupulously. Inevitable acts are thus penalties but also a form of inactivity that involves serious neglect. This is part of a criminal penalty and should ensure that lawyers can be punished for wrongdoing responsible for by their opponents. The directive commands only what sort of environmental violations should be punished, who should bear the responsibility and any participation in wrongdoing should be punished. However, it should be ensured that the repairs are effective, that they are consistent with the fractured, and that they have a warning effect. Sentencing isn't part of the EEA deal. As part of the adjustment text, it is declared that the record does not have a precedent for other legislation that contains a law of punishment. Adjustments are also being made for the types referred to in Annex to Type and the EEA Convention has not been entered. The induction of this directive calls for a change in law No. 7/1998, the method of loyalty and pollution. In order to establish a system as required by the directive, the criminal responsibility of the legislators, particularly in the field of general protection, has to be evicted and expanded. The law must then determine the occurrence of inactivity, i.e. Where there is serious neglect, the same way can lead to penalties, such as illegal emissions of pollutants. It also needs to be evaluated for changes in environmental authorities, police, and prosecution in the face of environmental threats. Finally, there is a need to increase the volume of follow-up of criminal wastes, implementing regulations, legislation and procedures in order to allow the police to investigate the fractions reported in accordance with the objective of this directive. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Far from handling the case, it was. Councilmen Elín Hirst and Karl Garðarsson, which stands here, with a sharp voice. The members of Hanna Birna Kristun's Kristjánsdóttir, Sigurjónsson the son of Sigurions, Óttar Proppér, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, and Aggi Össur's Skarphéðinsson, write under this view.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u51	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 195/2015 about the change in XX. An appendix - now I've learned it, the highest. President, how to read a Roman letter from the Ponta IIsis - about the environment of the EEA Convention. It's about electronic and electronic waste. The Commission has discussed the situation and has received its meeting with the Directories of I. Þorsteinsdóttir from the State Department of State and Kjartan Ingvarsson from the Environment and Resource Ministry. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 195/2015, from July 10, 2015, of the change in XX. A supplement to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and to implement the European Parliament Directive and Council 2012/19/EU from 4 July 2012 on electronic and electronic waste. On January 10, 2016, a six month delay in the EEA Convention was given to lift a administrative notice. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The Directive 2012/19/EU includes re-Version of the 2002/96/EC Directive for electronic waste introduced here in Iceland by law No. 55/2003, the management of waste, as well as the use of certain new instructions in the directive. The directive presents a new category of electronic and electronic devices, where they are divided into ten categories to August 15 August 2018, followed by the six classes. As a result, stricter targets for collection of electrical and electronic waste are set up. The directive also provides new targets for the proportion of recycling and recycling of electronic and electronic devices. The directive requires Member States to ensure that all congregations of electrical and electronic waste are treated appropriately, as well as prohibiting waste disposal of non-required electronic wastes. Member States are permitted to encourage producers to fund costs for collection of electronic waste from homes to collection stations. In accordance with the directive's requirement, Member States should closely monitor the exporting of electronic waste and ensure that the necessary information is provided in accordance with the waste management principle. The cost of monitoring, sample testing and storage can be laid down by the manufacturer, third company by the manufacturer or company. For electronic and electronic wastes from households, Member States must ensure that distributions of the locals of local and electronic products, where sales of electrical and electronic devices are at least 400 square metres or close to their size, provide very small electrical and electronic collections without charge and without any commitments to obtain the same type of electronic devices. This is not appropriate, however, if food shows that the current collection systems are more likely to be at least as effective. Then, in the directive, additional requirements for registration are provided by the manufacturers and immigrants, where the manufacturer is to provide specific information and can record this information in the registration system via the Internet. The implementation of the directive calls for a change in the law of No. 55/2003, waste management. The cost of the directive procedure will fall on producers and immigrants electronic and electronic devices, such as the manufacturer's responsibility, which is already being implemented. Electric and electronic instruments are laid in accordance with the law of No. 162/2002 on emissions charge, intended to finance and ensure handling of electronic waste and finance information transfers, registration systems and monitoring. The implementation of the directive also calls for updates on the EEA's computer system, which will keep an eye on the registration system, so that manufacturers and immigrants can insert information into the registration system via the Internet. It is estimated that the target cost for this production of the Agency's computer system will be about 20 billion. K. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Under the committee's opinion, the writer is the one listed here with a bang. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristunn's Kristjánsdóttir, the chairman of the Committee, Sigurjónsson the son of Siglejo, Óttar Proppér, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Vilhjálmur the son of Bjarnason, and Agzari the son of Skarphéðinsson. paritaprevir Elín Hirst and Karl Garðarsson were absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u52	A respectable president. I'm here recommending a committee party, and under it is the one standing here with a bang. The members of Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Haraldur Benediktsson, and Grestein, Sæmundsson. This is, as mentioned earlier, an opinion of a proposal for a synopsis on the validation of a contract for the Asian Investment Bank. The committee has discussed the matter, and was immediately introduced to Sigurður H. Helgason and Lilja Sturludóttir from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, María Erla Marelsdóttir and Kristján Andri Stefánsson from the State Department, and later came to a meeting of the Commission following reviews by Jón Sigurgeirsson and Alfreðsdóttir Alfred's daughter from the Federal Bank of Iceland. Then the commission had received reviews on the subject. The Commission issued a request for 12 members; to the Allied Union of Iceland, to Amnesty International, to the Union of State and Towns, United Nations Association in Iceland, the Social Science Agency of Iceland, the SEC, Iceland, Red Cross of Iceland, State over head, National Social Affairs Association, and Iceland's Sensitors Association. All 12 members received a request for review. There were only two reviews, of which only other material, came from the Bank of Iceland, which is why they visited the Committee. A letter from the United Nations Society also declared that they did not have an opinion or basis for it. Then came a material letter from Iceland's Secret Bank that covered the matter and their opinion of it tore up where the founding is believed to be able to promote the commercial status of Iceland in Asia and the Pacific, etc., and that was why the committee met with its representatives of the World Bank, i.e. Jón Sigurgeirsson and Lilja Alfreðsdóttir. The Parliamentary decrees, as recognized by a body of Congress, are looking for the records of the Allied Council to validate the Constitution of the Asian Investment Bank. In March 2015, Iceland's government decided to propose a financial and economic minister and secretary of state that Iceland would seek to be among founders of the Asian Investigation Bank. The bank's stock documents were formally signed on the part of Iceland, and more countries were signed on June 29, 2015, in Beijing. Comments to the synonym suggest that Asia's inner capital is a multinational evolution bank that will support measures to further the interior of Asia, which is the world's economic growth factor. These trends include the expansion of infrastructure in Asia to facilitate the flow of goods and services within Asia and between Asia and remote regions, such as Europe, Middle East, and Africa. The bank's original agreement shows that its purpose is to promote sustainable economic development, increase value and improve access in Asia through investments in infrastructure and other worthwhile sectors. In addition, the bank will contribute to regional cooperation and cooperation to address the challenge of evolution by working closely with other international and dual development institutions. Then, in the motions, it is also stated that Iceland's overall commitment to bank stocks is at a value of 17.6 million or 0.019% of stock amounted to about 2.3 billion dollars. As the Senate knows, a fifth of the stocks is invested, and four fifths of the stocks are incorporated. Most European countries, including all Norwegian countries, have worked on the bank's institutions along with the countries of Asia. Iceland's Member States to the maintenance investment bank will further strengthen the communications between Iceland and Asia and support new growth barriers in the business sector, which can mean more opportunities for Icelandic business life in Asia, as well as making Iceland visible in the largest growing area in the world. The majority of the business committee supports Iceland's involvement with the Investors Bank and proposes that the proposal be adopted unchanged. As mentioned earlier, this is signed by the one standing here. The members of Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Haraldur Benediktsson, and Grestein, Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u53	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator and a guide of this mission. It says here, by permission of the President: In addition, the bank will contribute to regional cooperation and cooperation to address the challenge of developing issues by working closely with other international and two - sided development institutions. I also find that the growth rate is about 2.3 billion. The point is that not everything may be paid and there may be no need to pay for it. I think it's an expensive statement because if commitment is 2.3 billion, it's 2.3 billion. I don't see that our decision to take part in this cooperation should be affected if we have to pay it fully or not. I'd like to make that observation. They talk about developing cooperation, and I'd like to get confirmation of it from what point of view. Chairman of the Committee that the money involved will not be part of the money that the General Assembly appoints for development cooperation, that it is quite clear that we are not talking about the money we have on schedule and should go to developing cooperation but will definitely be a new money, if I may say so, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u54	A respectable president. I appreciate the questions. Of course, that's the way it is, and there's no attempt to pull a feather over it when it is mentioned how high the development is and then explain how it's shown in the contract, that 4/5 parts are so called natural resources, not something we pay directly. It has no effect on the very presence of the number. It's spoken of as a stock supply, but only part of it comes for payment. This is well - known in international relations and cooperation. Regarding development cooperation, it is not available, and it was shown, for example, in a letter from the United Nations Society here, whether this will be appreciated as a development aid or not. Iceland will not make an independent decision to define this as a development aid unless it comes to ensure that the Agency decides that this should be defined as a development aid. This is true of all other countries and of all other countries involved in it. But there is no such decision, and it is not that Iceland makes it so that it is part of our development. However, found in the Committee that the DEC will determine whether this is defined as partial or complete development.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u55	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I understand that FAC will decide whether this is considered to be part of evolutionary projects or not, and it applies not only to us but also to other nations. What I want to stress is that if this contribution is considered to be part of development cooperation, it's new money, extra money, but they're not taken from the programs that have been approved here and are going to contribute to development cooperation in the spirit it has been so far. I'd like to stress that this will be an additional money if FAC allows it to be counted as a developing team.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u56	A respectable president. I agree with that. A senator who decides that this will be partially or completely defined for all countries as a contribution that can be considered to be a means of development, is an additional one. I don't think we're gonna do it well in the business that we're supposed to start pinching it off of another budget, because the situation is very different. Basically, the matter is not presented as a development aid but as part of the Asian Investors Bank, which is guided by our interests. That investment should be applied to it. So I have no choice but to agree. Of course, there is no such thing as the position you will take, but I agree with it. A senator should view this as an extension, not pinching it from already existing things.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u57	The president would like to state that in addition to the documents related to the matter, and the president read it at the outset, he will also follow the committee's opinion of the smaller part of the State Department on deck. 855.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u58	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend my involvement with the State Department on a proposal for the resolution of a contract on the Asian Investigation Bank. A smaller part of the State Department, i.e. The person standing here signing this opinion cannot be accepted, including because of what it has been like. The Council of Congress has the basis for which the Council warrant is sought to validate the Constitution of the Asian Investigation Bank. In March 2015, Iceland's government decided to propose the highest order. Financial and economic ministers and the highest. Secretary of State that Iceland would seek to be one of the founders of Asia's Investigation Bank. The bank's stock documents were formally signed by Iceland and more countries were signed on June 29, 2015, in Beijing, or Beijing, as some actually prefer. But instead of immediately presenting them in the fall of 2015, they presented a pact proposal for validation of the Treaty and discussing the matter materially and, as if I had considered to be the most successful of the case, such a proposal was not issued until December the same year as it was not recommended here at the General Assembly until January 2016. However, here it is a goal for a decision that I believe would have been a full reason to discuss thoroughly at previous levels at the General Assembly. However, as a result of bank membership and the authority to pay for his stock money, the budget was provided in November by means of budgets by 2015. A decision was thus made on the payment of a 17.6 million dollars, about $2.3 billion, without any material discussion at the level of the council. I believe that in view of the fact that in the spring of 2015, the government planned to seek this participation in the bank, this method of making decisions is unacceptable. Then Iceland's founder's objective is to the Asian Investigation Bank, in my opinion, unclear and even potentially contradictory. On the one hand, the aim is to strengthen the European Union's connection with the Asian market and pay the streets of Icelandic companies, which can actually be a good goal for themselves, but I believe that it has not been adequately explained in the treatment of the situation how founded that the bank will benefit the exports of Iceland. However, the goal of Iceland is to contribute to the development of Asia through its foundership, which in itself may also be a good goal. I'd like to give high priority to the fact that contributions to development are in line with the strategy that the General has already agreed on. The committee noted that it is not likely that poorer countries would join them in the bank. It brings up to my mind some questions about how the bank falls to the development of Iceland. Furthermore, I believe that there is a problem with finding environmental or social goals in the database of the bank that I think should be the basis for all the institutions that Iceland has become involved in, that I now do not talk about in the latter time when to create an impact on climate change should be clear to everyone. Therefore, in my opinion, the benefits of the Icelandic government are uncertain, so it is hardly possible to justify such a high fund of Icelandic public funds in such an institution. The Telecommunication Committee of OECD, DEC, will evaluate whether the bank's institutions can be considered as contributions for development cooperation. I'd like to stress that regardless of the conclusion of the DiaC in this matter, it will be urgent that the contributions of the Icelandic government, if this body's interpretation will be accepted, not at the expense of our contributions to traditional two - sided development cooperation. In this context, I would like to review the warnings that I and others have. Councilmen lived in connection with the discussion that took place at the autumn Summit on the decline of the Development Agency, which showed the importance of developing cooperation at all times on its own terms, but does not disappear from the commercial interests of the state that provide assistance. I think it is very important to intervene in this discussion because it is a point that I was deeply concerned about when a decision was made to import all evolutionary cooperation into the Ministry of State, that there might be a lack of lines, and that other interests besides developing countries' clean interests would be filled in the process of developing cohesion. I think it's important that in a discussion about the Asian Investment Bank, that's a special requirement. So I don't think I can stand to agree on this synonym.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u59	V.E.G. President. I'd like to agree with my spokesman, huh? paritaprevir A Þóra named Árnadóttir, who declared that she could not stand to accept this matter. I can't do that either, because I'm actually very opposed, but it's completely clear what we're accepting here. That's one reason I want to respond to the caution. The burden of evidence rests on those who want to commit to the Icelandic taxpayers to contribute, in terms of resources, and to ensure 2.3 billion dollars. to this international bank. Governments simply have not lived up to that burden of evidence. There's no evidence that we should do this. On the other hand, I have to say, the moves scare. I'd like to put this into a historical context. There have been evolutionary banks, evolutionary funds, such as Norwegian funds, and I have no doubt that they have done many good things. This may be true of other comparable institutions and funds and banks established over time. We know the world's largest part of the World Bank. As we know, the twin brothers, the World Bank and the World Bank, were very active in political formulas. Here at the turn of the century, there were very frequent discussions at the Council of the Icelandic government in the administrative system of these institutions, especially with the International Bank and with the criteria that he carried out. It was, in fact, very controversial in many lands. The bank won its plans over a period of time, according to what was called the English word "Structural Addiction," a transformation plan. These plans were primarily turned toward the inner areas of society that enjoyed sponsors, namely, poorer kingdoms of the world. In particular, infrastructure, such as energy companies, telecommunications companies, etc. The requirements for loans were more often not market territory, that this activity would be torn out of government custody and put in the market, and the money came. It was critical, and it was immoral and wrong that the International Bank used the International Bank for its own benefit. Then they changed their names. For a time, the Strructural Adjustment Programs ◯Poverty Production Programs•i.e. Plans to reduce poverty, it sounded better to humans, but its content was exactly the same. The requirements were market areas and privateisations of the wood. Now you wonder: " Where is my focus in this bank? It is stated in the Senate itself and in the opinion of the greater part of the foreign committee that there is no doubt as to where the emphasis is to be placed. We are told that this will ensure the Icelanders approach to the bank, a priority. It says that both in the Parliament's vocabulary proposals and in the opinion of the greater part that this gives rise to an opportunity for Icelandic business life and makes Iceland more visible at the world's largest interest level. In other words, the focus is not on the development of poor countries or on helping them. Rather, it is a business opportunity for an Icelandic company. There is nothing against it, no bad at all, and, of course, would like to contribute to the well-being of Icelandic enterprises, including those working in energy sectors, etc., to connect with the infrastructure. But we will yet know the rest; what is the setting? What is it that men are trying to achieve? I drew attention to this discussion the other day in connection with the TiSA agreements to the proposals of the Icelanders and the Norwegians at a convention in Geneva, such as WikiLeaks in its own time, returned to energy service, as it was called. There were energy related tasks and nothing bad about us trying to get our way in such a field, but we don't want to force one or another to deal with business on terms of contracts like TiSA. And all this is about being free in this relationship. There's been a disagreement with the World Bank and with these TiSA agreements, and the question is about this too. As you read this, it contains exactly the same information that was contained in the data of the World Bank. In my time, I criticized various talks, not only for Iceland but also for the northern countries. There is no excuse when people say: All the rest of them are doing this, and all the other northern countries, Europe, are doing this. Yeah, yeah, they're in the TiSA deal too. It is there that political authority has been used by the international wealth of funds. Then the race is started with 2.3 billion of the Icelanders' tax dollars, and that's fine, and everyone approves of it because everyone does. That's no reason. The Icelandic government has simply not submitted to its responsibility and its obligation to prove itself to the council, and it is completely absurd to accept this matter in such a way almost unconcerned. It was discussed in connection with the benefit before Christmas, and then this discussion is being held today. I especially want to thank you. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir for being the voice of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee that brings up critical aspects of this achievement. How thankable it is to do so! Then there is the second reason for me to consider when the international system is building a privilege, and it is indeed for international institutions in general, the United Nations, and the international institutions, that all are free of taxes. Then it's natural to make sure that even if a person breaks off in the countries where he's come down, there's no lawsuits, everyone's free of all of that. Says here at 50. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ All bank agencies, bankers, guards, presidents, vice presidents and other managers and employees of the bank, including the bank. Experts and counselors who perform assignments and services for the bank: i. I shall be free of the hearing of their conduct in the field of work for the bank... Is that smart? Is that what people think? And all tax-free. We're taking part in building such an international privilege system that may, I'm not going to claim it, but it may be used to force the poorer parts of the world into markets on its infrastructure. The contract, in this stock agreement, refers specifically to the infrastructure. It says here in 2 st. on role: To encourage private investments in projects and later, especially in infrastructure. What kind of wood? How? On what grounds? We don't know. Has that been discussed? I'm asking because of what. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son has asked for an answer: Will he explain it to me? Will he tell me what we're committed to doing in order to manipulate us? Gonna go for it. The head of the State Department to explain this to me? What exactly is this subject? What conditions will be set up? Will he work on the same terms as the World Bank and the World Cash Fund? Will he do what they did down here until the turn of the century? Is that how it's gonna be? Has that been discussed? No, no. 2.3 billion guacamole. There's room for these 2.3 billion, and there's 100 million at once, and there's no room for them in a land hospital, is there? Why not give this money there instead of making such a commitment to just one premise: All the others are doing it, we must be in it? And then Iceland's sun can shine on these fancy meetings of everyone free of tax, free of law, and legal systems in the states of such privileged countries, the world's privileged people are living there, and Iceland is living with them. As a result, we become more visible in this large part of the world that the bank will include in its territory. Is that what Iceland needs most now? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u60	V.E.G. President. It's very nice to hear what you're hearing. paritaprevir Dooming Ögmundur the son of Jónasson, for he often talks about politics, about a prince's hand. It's a pleasure. Now we've done this before. We're part of the World Bank, the World Bank Pension Fund. That's what I'm talking about. A senator to argue that these institutions did not bring temporary relief to many of the maligned nations? The purpose is to help. We can discern that, and that is the political difference, how to do so. It is true that it is a matter of increasing business, free business, that it is the basis for bringing countries out of poverty, the possibility of improving. It's never been done by government or infrastructure, it's been tested all in the past with bad results, though. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson. You can call it politics, but people have long learned that to get nations up, as they say they have to do, they need to do more business. It's not gonna happen any different, but I know we're not going to get over it. This participation here is not different, it's part of help. This is part of developing cooperation. We can always say that the Land Hospital is missing. We can also stop all development cooperation and say: "Can't we put it in the Land Hospital? There's a poor argument. But it can be important for those nations to receive help. Also, being a part of this assistance can benefit us, like other developing partners. Don't the senator agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u61	V.E.G. President. I need very good glasses to find out where we might agree, me and the other. A senator, in what was said here. But I would like to start by saying that in spite of tragic world wars and wars in the 20th century, it is the greatest phase of human history because in the 20th century, we were well - adjusted for welfare, education, and it was done by a common effort through rural society and state. The societies did so. They made it. And going to take it out of the table and say that it didn't give a good thing to work together - that's how we Iceland built up our society at this time. The purpose, says why. Senator, I need your help. I don't think so. If I take it as a greater part of the Parliament's State Department, then the purpose is to give Icelandic business life opportunities and make Iceland visible in the largest growth site in the world. This is also true in the Senate arrangement. Hv. The head of the State Department said earlier, repeated the position, that this was primarily for business purposes. So the emphasis is not on evolution or assistance. It's a business thing. I'm just advertising because people know exactly what they're doing. I'd like to have a discussion about that. Or feel it. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son is not normal, before he commits the Icelandic taxpayers to contribute $2.3 billion to our knowledge on what basis it is done?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u62	V.E.G. President. When societies and kingdoms gather together and establish a welfare system, there is a prerequisite. It's not a decision, it's something to make. Free trade is required, which is absolutely essential for progress, technology technologies, etc. This does not happen automatically. If we are going to build nations out of poverty to the rocks, such help may be needed at times. No one can, I think, say it, whatever. paritaprevir Ögmundur's Jónasson, that the World Bank and the World Bank did not prevent the calamities that would otherwise have occurred in many nations if such assistance had not been available. This is reality. Of course we do. It's our political difference, how the value comes into existence. Some believe that it can be done by the government; I believe that the state is always like an elephant in a porcelain camp when it's on the market. Of course, I realize that where there is no competition, the state may have to be. That, of course, is the question. There's something else, that's approved in this bank where it's thinking about how it works. Of course they can talk about it, but on the ground, it's a sideshow. The important thing is to assist in this area, since this may be important to both the country and the trade, for us Icelanders. There could be interests in it, just as in development aid; it can be a valuable interest in helping countries. That gives us a number of possibilities. This is what I think is important. That's why I feel that this small matter is being made up of at the council. I don't really understand how humans are opposed to this, because this is part of the development aid I think is important in this as a second.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-18-78.u63	A limping person's support may involve bringing a staff to him, but when the help turns to getting monotonous about building it for him, you start to wonder what underlying factors are behind you. The education system, the health system, the welfare system - cornerstones, and the foundations of the 20th century's progress were created in the custody of a government or a community in the hands of the common people. There is no way to overlook the exact fact that it was. Then there's no recommendation against taking advantage of the market where it's useful, of course we do. As for the World Bank and the World Bank and the International Cash Fund, I think that more often than not, it was either a watchman to the world's financial resources or that these institutions were used by international financial resources. I was tracking how it would have been - and that we had been involved. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I can find all the speeches brought on our behalf in the administrations of these institutions where the conditions were specified, that only those poor nations would borrow that previously marketed them their systems. It's just a fact. Now I'm alone asking about this. [[The point is, they won't recover.]] If not, they will not succeed - here is the representative of the Independence Party to say that it is normal to do so. Since my suspicions are inclined in the same direction, I pay attention to this. I have not yet received an answer as to what the members of the Independence Party are willing to do to the Icelandic taxpayers to put 2.3 billion into a fairy tale that they do not know where to go.
