ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u1	Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 1228, about tenants with real estate, from Haraldur Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u2	Recently, the General Assembly Hall visited a group of seven - year - olds from the Dall School of Grafarvogur. They gave a gift to the council, a project they've been working on during the winter, and they focus on what they consider most important in life. The gift was accompanied by the following letter: ▪ Dear generals and ministers. This is what we consider most important to us in life. Do you want to take good care of these points when governing our country? Then there are 15 emphasises, such as clean water, parents, comfortable homes, own bedrooms, democratic elections, and rules. This message is maintained in the council office and available to members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u3	At 7:35 p.m., political debates take place, a different name for kitchen Sunday talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u4	A respectable president. I've asked you a question to the highest level. The HCP for oral response followed by a study of aspects of the Land Hospital in a controversial endotracheal transplantation procedure. My question to the Minister is as follows: Does he think that an independent study of the National Hospital's aspects will be conducted in the treatment of a patient who underwent this endotracheal transplant in 2011? If so, does a minister believe that in this country, there are doctors who have no interest in it and who are capable of investigating the matter? This is a procedure that brought world attention to the period when it was performed in 2011. The subject patient was 36 years old, Eritreui, who was studying at the University of Iceland. He approached doctors at the Land Hospital and found that he had cancer of his throat. Was the tumour of the type that had begun to tighten his airways and that it had to be removed, and even part of the trachea, which, of course, is vital to all of us. When Icelandic doctors took their advice, they found out that at the Carolina University Hospital in Sweden, a doctor who was preparing a major breakthrough operation was told, namely. to change the windpipe into a person and replace the windpipe belonging to man's own plastic accelerator that had been specifically prepared for the operation by replacing stem cells into the trachea. Should such a windpipe, as I understood it as a player, function normally as being a natural part of the body. What happened later was that the patient died, and what happened later was found to be that the preoperative rational support failed and the scientific efforts that preceded the operation said that they had not undergone anything at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u5	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Elín Hirst has been directed to me by oral inquiry to see if I consider to be desirable an independent investigation of the aspects of the Land Hospital in the treatment of a patient undergoing a controversial endotracheal transplant in 2011, and if so, whether I believe that in this country, there are doctors who have no interest in caring for and who are able to investigate the case. Information that the Ministry of Health has acquired from the Sweden authorities is now developing three major research related directly to the activities of Italian Dr. Macchiarini at the Karóska Hospital in Stockholm. There is one submerged by Karón Intisttet and aims at whether the rules for scientific research were followed and whether the results of intubation published in scientific journals have been potentially false. Another investigation is carried out by Swedish authorities, i.e. Stockholms is a national irritation, and for the work and practice of a doctor at Karólinska Hospital. Part of that study was conducted here in the country beginning of April and was associated with the treatment of the patient who underwent intubation in the Carolina hospital in 2011 and who was being treated at the Land Hospital, both before and after that treatment. The Department of Justice helped the Swedish Research Committee to reach the interviewers whom the committee had chosen, both of whom came from Iceland's Hospital and Medical Insurance. The Ministry also provided a facility for the committee where the interviews were conducted. The NTSB invited an independent party to be present for the interviews so that if something was observed in the person who felt that a closer examination would be needed, the Icelanders might make a more precise evaluation. I decided to accept an invitation and was a lawyer at the Ministry of Health when interviews were taken. The third study is a police study in Sweden during the intubation procedure of Macchiarinir at the Karonian Hospital. Then I have received an overview of nine other studies that are currently being conducted regarding the activities of the treating physician, one or another, from a review of a controlled endotracheal transplant. These studies also include the work of Macchiarinir, Italy, U.S.A., and Russia. Then it should be noted that on March 31, I received a letter from the National Institute of Moralology after my meeting with the representatives of the Agency. There the Agency insisted on the importance of setting up a special research committee on the case. According to the National Institute of Moral Health, the research presented above will not take into account the factors of the Icelandic institutions and their approach to the case. The Agency also points out that they do not have the authority to access data, such as medical records. I believe it is proper for the General to consider whether there is any reason to establish a research committee, such as the NTSB Act, No. 68/2011, to investigate the entrance of the Icelandic institutions to the case. According to the Report by the General Legal Office of January 2015, the Committee generally expects the Commission and the Commission to propose a proposal for a resolution to the Commission's order. My job is to write a memo on the case that will be sent to a board of directors and patrols in the near future and ask for a formal position on the case. Everyone realizes that we live in a small community. We all know its advantages, as well as its underlying defects. Hv. A member of the United States asks if there are doctors who have no interest in the investigation of this case. I can't answer that here. The first thing we need to know is what special knowledge is needed in order to participate in such a study, and whether any doctors serving in this country have that knowledge. Then they need to be evaluated on the basis of the acceptable rules of the administrative law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u6	A respectable president. All I wanted to do was make a quick remark and thank you for this discussion. I think it's urgent that we kill on these matters here at the Senate Hall, and I want to thank you. The leader, Elín Hirst, for bringing the matter to its attention. I also want to thank the highest. A health minister for responding in response and has agreed that a representative of the Ministry was present for interviews and an investigation in the case outside Sweden, as well as refering the case to the management and monitoring committee, which I am in. I don't have time to discuss it here, but there is concern in a small country that in general medical error, doctors are themselves, other colleagues of the profession, able to decide whether a mistake has taken place or whether there is a need to be reformed. [[The president calls.]] There is something that we need to consider on the next loss.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Mr. Þórhallsson's debt is very grateful for this counterargument, and thank you very much. The minister of the health of Kristján Þór Júlíusson for a clear answer. I agree with what has been presented in the case of others, and to the Minister in particular, that it is important that this case be carried out under a administrative and surveillance committee and that she would ask if there is no reason to investigate the country on this matter, i.e. that if I understand that, as the National Institute of Moralology has discussed in a letter to the secretary of the United States, there will be a board of investigators. This is clearly a big deal, it is in Sweden and it is on a global scale. It is as big a case after the end of a betrayal as it was when the people were being commended for this milestone. That is why it is so important to be firm and determined when it becomes evident that this is not all that seems to be happening. As noted, there are three extensive studies in the Sweden case, including a police investigation, investigating whether scientific research has been false in this case. As for us, this patient is Iceland's patient, the Land Hospital of a University Hospital, who trusts in Icelandic Health, and it's very important that we have an open and clear examination of what was really going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u8	A respectable president. Yes, I also thank you for the discussion that has taken place and foreboding specifically, sir. paritaprevir Elín Hirst. Then at the end of the discussion, I want to reiterate what I said in my previous speech, that I believe it is right for the General to decide on the next steps of this case, according to the NTSB laws. I also agree with the representatives of the National Institute of Moralology, which says in the address I made here as a subject for the Ministry that this raises both professional and moral questions. It is normal to get answers to such questions, but at the same time, it is a problem in a small community where we have a relatively small number of institutions and a relatively small number of individuals related to such activities. Then it is a challenge to investigate such matters, but I firmly believe that it must be done with respect for all matters and with firmness and security, guided by the presenting the truth and right in the case so that we can learn from the mistakes that may have been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Healthcare Minister for taking the time to answer my inquiry. The pleasant news in spring became a mental - health program, and four - year - old policy was adopted, and most of us agree that it is a very positive first step toward getting this important class acceptable. In February of last year, the State's Accounting Report to the General Assembly on Mental Health Care for Children and Youths, Grades 2 and 3. It shows that the long waiting period that has characterized health care for children and adolescents is unacceptable. In addition to countering the legal obligations of the State, the long - term prospects for the children involved are not only for the long - term well - being of the city but also for the long - term interests of the children. It says that unless the mental health problems of young people are taken systematically as soon as there is an increased likelihood of heavy and long - term consequences and even a future disability. Furthermore, a report by the Government Accounting says that when it comes to mental - health services with young people, governments have weighty responsibilities. The laws on health care, patient rights, the laws on the affairs of disabled people, and the United Nations Convention on Child's Rights ensure that children and adolescents have the right to as perfect health care as possible and should be given to governments to provide care for their welfare. The report says that the need for young people in this country for international and special services has not been determined, but the need for service in this country and in other countries has been exceeded. Accordingly, it can be assumed that about 16,000 children and adolescents in this country are in the position that they will ever need an intervention or special care for mental health problems. Mr. President. On this point, a national accountant says: If part of this group is missing that service, it can be questioned whether governments are committed to their commitments and that adequate results are achieved. There is evidence that this could be so. It tells itself that quality of life and the opportunity for children who have a multilingual or mental problem to participate in education and play as well as in other children's activities are at stake. As a result, it is a great deal of interest and justice that society is doing what it can to improve the well - being and opportunities of these children. Here, not only are children's own quality of life at stake but their future prospects for active participation in the community and workforce. Will they be able to study and then create many valuable jobs and cultures, to advance the community, to pay taxes and obligations, or will they be condemned for mental distress and become dependent on financial support from the community? I want to direct this question to the highest level. Healthcare Minister: Has the Board of Directors been evaluated for national benefit from the services of children with mental problems or with various problems?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the inquiry, a member of the Council of Human Rights, agrees to determine whether the Council had the National Benefits to be derived from the services of children with a mental disorder or a complex problem. It is to answer that I do not know that such an assessment has been conducted by the Board of Directors. However, research is available, such as colic. A senator could handle things in the past that involve serving children and the importance of early intervention of children's problems in order to prevent and try to try to see if the problem that the person is dealing with becomes worse. It is well - known, and it says itself, that the measures needed to be taken when cases become more serious have greater costs, they are more complex than if intervention had taken place significantly earlier. I think we can all agree that no one is trying to improve the worth of heartache or the pressures on children and their families. However, there is not necessarily a correlation between early intervention and avoiding the fact that mental disorders will become severe, but in the vast majority of cases, they do. Hv. One inquirer named here a mental - health program recently approved at the Council. It shows the emphasis on screening and the intervention if children are screened for anxiety or depression. It also emphasizes the importance of supporting parents in their role of parenting, which aims for their children's best interests in growing up, including increasing the likelihood of taking action quickly and looking for advice if any problem arises. It is my opinion that children with mental disorders must be prevented from waiting for service. The passing of time is fast, and the time that we as adults feel is very short in a child's life.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u11	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson to pick up this case, as well as to thank the highest degree. Health Minister for the steps he has taken to improve mental health care in Iceland. We all know that much too little money goes into mental health care within the medical bills. So we need to act in a practical way. I'd like to state to the highest. A minister has already contributed extra funds to this seminary, but we need to remain firm and to be very specific in these matters. As noted above, early intervention is crucial, improving the quality of life of children and their families. Waiting children as we do today can cause irreparable damage to the development that they can achieve and the quality of life they can enjoy as individuals in our society. There's savings to early intervention, and it's important that we do our best.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u12	A respectable president. I want to thank you too. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for filming this important matter. As you and I in the North East, we've been discussing the mental health of children and teenagers of the past few years. We've been worried about the situation. In fact, I understand things are getting a good look, but it's such a subject that there's really no compromise. I'd like to join in with everyone, and also the highest. A health minister, that we can always do better in this category. We've taken a fine step recently, but this is the group of paintings I think we generals should have in the foreground for the next loss because we want to live in a society where these cases are in good shape.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u13	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. The so - called early intervention is key. It is recognized by all scholars in this field. Everyone can be sure that the quality of life of all of these children is at stake. Just as a number of parents are long away from work because of their children's mental health problems, so there are many times when parents have to stop working to care for their child or when they are simply out of work. Those involved can't produce valuable things for society and even need support and compensation to support themselves. As a result, financial losses are added to everything else that families and those of these children need to undergo. It is not only the loss of those in this situation but also a great financial loss for society all. Very often, the explanation for the situation described in the National Review Report shows that funds are lacking in response and take the necessary steps. Very high quality of life for children and caregivers is at stake. There is much more than reason to be very effective in the ministry. The evidence is that if we do not do so well, it will become a financial waste for society all. Governments must carefully evaluate their money, making it clear to the public that pays for their tax waste. I challenge the highest. Ministers to put into practice assessing the national benefits of serving children with mental problems or complex problems so that they will see how much benefit there is in providing enough money for the entire public to do this well and to provide young people and children with good quality and adequate service as soon as they realize that they need it. Mr. President. I also want to remind you how important it is to collect and keep comprehensive information on the well - being of children so that you can monitor the development, improve the procedure and the service of children. The best thing would be if there was one source of public responsibility on the welfare of children and they were used to improve the attitude of children in general and to put pressure on improving the quality of child service. It's a key. I agree with what. paritaprevir Þórhallsson's Höskuldur, this should be one of the priorities of health care services in Iceland. The case is very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u14	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion and the comments that have been made. Thank you, too. His vendettas and zeal for the group of painters. This isn't the first time we have a place to say, me and him. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson, on these subjects, and I really appreciate it as much as possible. This part of the medical profession is handled by a senator. I choose to understand the approval of the Council of Mental Health not long ago, which arose on the basis of a decree made by members of Congress. paritaprevir The Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir, I choose to interpret the conclusion that then appeared in the Senate's payment of mental health policy to the next year, focusing on putting this class in first place. I'm glad to hear it. It will always be, normal and nature according to the case, be able to call for information or suggestions for further improvement, etc. But I think we've taken a very remarkable step. We're protruding into another reality. Never before in our history have these issues been placed on one course, and once this foundation has reached its limit, it is so good to be able to build on it and to add to the areas in which we stand before the weak. Once again, I welcome the discussion and sense that it is the great willingness of the council to handle these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u15	V.E.G. President. I've been in this talk chair before to discuss the issues of droughtmakers in Iceland. It is beginning to be quite a long time that has been largely stopped in the import of hydrogened cod heads and bone spines from cod to Nigeria. This is really a very serious matter because of the total total total total total total total total total of 450,5500 jobs. More than 20 companies in Iceland have this activity in hand. These activities create income into national preparations of 151⁄220 billion. So these are important companies, both for the Icelanders and for the Nigerians, because these products bring in their enormously valuable protein sources in food for the Nigerian nation. Those in this export also buy a lot of energy. They use transport pathways that return income to national preparation. It's quite clear that this is actually the only market for this export, and it's important because it's being used by the fish. True, there is some movement now, and hopefully it will be the highest. A minister of foreign affairs recognizes their status. But I ask: Will the Ministry organize the missions to Nigeria to discuss the serious situation of import-stealed fish products from Iceland that have already had very serious consequences for an Icelandic fishing company? If so, when can a commission be expected to go to Nigeria? Second: Is there any way that governments can get to the point where they can import from Nigeria? Is there any chance of trading between countries while currency is a problem with Nigerian society? Third, has the ambassador of Iceland already given his confidential letter to the Nigerian authorities? It is important for the market that we have an ambassador from Iceland in Nigeria.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is a very important but at the same time difficult. As in Nigeria, we know how difficult it is to deal with a very critical recession in currency income. The bottom line of the story is that in the middle of 2015, Nigerian bank set rules that limit currency translocation due to import into the country of various goods, including marine products. The rules were set in view of the tremendous contracts that have been made in the nation's currency because of low oil prices, but the largest part of Nigeria's export price comes from oil trading. The new rules have had serious consequences for the export of marine products from Iceland to Nigeria, which are primarily dried seafood and frozen macroil in recent years. Following a decision made by the Nigerian money bank, the State Department established a field of consultation with representatives of exporters, marine organisations, and Iceland's Secret Bank, which have regularly met. At that point, we have discussed the situation in business with Nigeria and how we might find ways to expand business. In addition, foreign minister sent a letter to Nigeria's foreign minister last summer and requested explanations of the new regulations of Nigeria's bank. The same thing did Iceland's Secret Bank in a letter to the Nigerian bank about the same time. Sadly, no answer to the issue has been received. Then the International Business Agency, WTO, has taken up the initiative of Iceland and other countries. This study has examined whether the regulations of Nigeria's bank meet the international commitments that Nigeria has had at the centre of the Agency. In addition, by the end of the last week in Oslo, meetings between the Nigerian minister of state and the Icelandic officials were held in preparation for a planned visit to Nigeria. One problem in caring for Iceland's interests in this regard has been that for a long time there was not a government in Nigeria, after receiving a new president in March 2015. However, at the end of this year, a government government government delivered its confidential letter to Iceland's ambassador in London in Nigeria, last March. On that occasion, the trade of the land was taken up and expressed concern over the situation that exists there. To answer the first question, why? A senator is then in preparation for a minister of foreign affairs to travel to Nigeria with a business commission to discuss further the problems of the country's business. They aim for such a delegation to go to Nigeria later in the summer or as soon as the circumstances permit. Recently, representatives of the State Department went to Nigeria to prepare for such a visit. As an answer to a different question, why? A senator has discussed the possibility of presenting trades between Iceland and Nigeria with marine products and oil. But it is too early to tell if there is such a possibility. Will be that, along with others, on a planned visit to Nigeria.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u17	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice for bringing up business with Nigeria. As we have seen, this is a great deal of interest, those who wipe out fish products or carry out dried - out fish products. This too is the great benefit of the entire marine road, since drying is of importance to the full use of raw materials. Sadly, in some places it has become said that workers have been dismissed from a serious position in Nigeria. So I really enjoyed hearing from the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is being arranged in the Ministry of State in search of possible solutions. At the same time, I wondered, " Is it not important to consider collecting other markets for drying products while working with Nigerian markets? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u18	President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir It's Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice for filming this case. To see people lose their jobs because of the political conditions that have existed in Nigeria, as a result of the fall from world - shaking prices on oil, is an enormous interest. We're looking up at an enormous number of companies all over the country, and I'm calling Fish Sharing in Davík as one of the most successful companies who've relied on this market and are in trouble. At the same time, I want to celebrate the words of the highest. Secretary of State, who made the proclamation that she wanted to go to Nigeria and discuss with the U.S. government. I believe it is imperative that such a trip be made. I realize that it has been very difficult to get there sooner than that, but sooner the better. I welcome both the discussion as well as a positive response to the highest degree. Secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u19	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of state is very much concerned with her answers and responses. This is in line with her energy and interest in the work that this case is doing in the direction that we will likely see a delegation leaving for Nigeria. I believe it is extremely important that the sender committee go to Nigeria and that this export is shown the interest it involves and the respect shown to those in this work are also shown. I would also like to add that there has been a great decrease in crops. However, the initial opening has meant that exporters are selling the products at up to 40% lower prices. In addition, imports in Nigeria have increased from 5% to 20%. So this is now a far more difficult situation than has been and important, as it has been observed in all of the people here, to try to get this market back into work. I want to roll it up a bit, and I know that the highest. The minister of state has come to consider, whether there is any possibility that the rise in these customs will be reduced again and also the question of what products we would be able to take over, for example, from the Nigerians, other than oil. Is there anything they have to offer that might be important and interesting for us to move in with dried fish products?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-30-120.u20	A respectable president. I'll repeat my gratitude to what it's about. Forecaster to shed light on the state of the Nigerian market that has been very important to our immigrants over the years. I agree with the perspective of the leader that this is a very important matter, and it is urgent that we have a more successful solution to this matter and that I will put forth great effort to do so. In my first answer, I tore up why the Nigerian market has closed the fish exporters. This is a situation that is difficult for us to influence, but in contrast, the Ministry of State has sought various ways to try to correct this position, and we will certainly continue that work. I'd also like to say so, because it was in another inquiry whether we were looking to other markets, that that that's really what we are doing. I expect the work that has been put on will even result in the next loss. In terms of customs and their rise, that's one of the things we're going to record. It's very difficult to say at this point whether it will produce results, but we'll pick it up. Whether there were other products that could be considered in any trade, this will be very interesting when it comes to it. I reiterate that we will work hard on a planned mission to Nigeria, and we hope it will be effective.
