ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u1	I want to draw attention to what. All members of the council agree that today is quarter of a century, 25 years from the time of the Council to a single seminar. On May 31, 1991, the Constitution was confirmed by the President of Iceland and published in Government News of the same day. This adjustment was the same order that had been established at the construction of the Council of 1845, when the council was then serving in a single seminary. That order lasted for 1874, but with the constitution for Iceland that year, it was decided to divide the council into two divisions, the upper branch with half the members being the prime and the lower members of a national body. At the same time, joint meetings, joint council members, were expected to set and end the council and to resolve differences between the divisions when they could not agree about changes in the bill. During the past century, an early assignment from the departments to the united Generals gradually became a united assembly in a special seminary, the third seminary, with its own organization, including its own organization. A special committee system. The intervention of the General Assembly in three seminars was further established in 1934 when the budget was moved to a joint General Assembly. By the end of the last century, only a law-enforcement project was passed in the wards, while much of the rest of the Council's work was carried out in the United States General, including the discussion of budgets, plagiar proposals, inquiry, reports, and discussions outside the program. As a result, more and more cases of disintegration were heard. During 1990-1991, a large political agreement was reached to take the step to the full and take the entire job of the Parliament into a single seminar. In this relationship, there was a difference between the two groups. Consider the experience of Danish and Swedish Parliaments, but the branch mobilization in Denmark in 1953 and in Sweden 1971 was thought to have improved greatly in the work of the Parliament. The Norwegians decided to go on the same route in 2009, where the council had served in three seminars, as was the case here. The decision to make the Allied Parliament one seminar in 1991 was well - known and long time, ending the historical reasons for the division when the 1915 royal releases were smiled. Now it's going to be a pleasure or no one to return to their former arrangements.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u2	Consider: Prime Minister, health minister, social and housing minister, and environment and resource minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u3	A respectable president. A greater part of the Economic and Business Committee is now being considered in a Congress case on the tax issues proposed by the secretary of finance on behalf of the government to drop from authority for marriage reform, which is the cost of 3.6 billion and is mainly the most efficient of the country's population. The majority of the committee decided not to support this change. Secretary of finance. It turns out that a promising reduction in the government's share of insurance is unsaid. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether he is really behind such a perverted tax action. Is it really a defencer for the advance party, who makes himself at least on days for socialism, to stand up to a decision like this when there is a task that cannot be financed? This is where the health - care system is opened, and the main problem is that they need more money. These 3.6 billion were extremely well - versed subjects into that system, making it very easy, for example. for us in the United States to support that change. It is also foretold that the government promised 2.5 billion in the construction of 600 apartments, but it has only been able to supply 2/3 parts of that capital, 1.5 billion. As a result, billions could be used for that assignment. That's how you could count it for a long time. How can the government agree that this is true on the part of the government? I'm waiting for the highest. The prime minister of the longest words to make a clear declaration that he is not on the administrative committee of the Economic and Business Committee for this insane proposal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u4	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator who exists with this bill to cut insurance bills, including In order to finance it, but perhaps not especially with the money, it was suggested in the bill to fall from the ideas raised in the Economic and Business Committee during the past year to film a full discount due to the commitment of marriage. I was surprised when I heard recently that this conclusion was coming out of the committee. It makes it necessary for us to review how to make $3.3 billion in income, so whether it should be done by raising the tax ratio to the top of the tax ratio to meet it. There were differences of viewpoint on the committee. I've discussed this with some individual members of the committee who are talking about the outcome of equality, not merely the group that suffers. A senator mentioned the matter. It was a proposal for the government to create income here and to block the population of most of them. It is an enormous financial growth in the land, and as a result, we have had a good conscience to postpone the equal communication between those groups, which certainly needs to be considered, that they also have the same value. This may be a perimeter group that's stuck with a very high tax system. I believe that there is a great need for a much better review of the situation, and even though it will be resolved now by finishing the matter in view of the fact that the insurance fee will be reduced to a better degree at the council before making any financial releases in the winter. The reason for this change is not good enough for me to allow me to accept it, as it were. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u5	A respectable president. I understand very well that the evidence is the highest. The prime minister is not clear because they do not exist. Semitic reasoning? If someone has been trying to lie him to the point of being present, the questions about equality, for example, will now be further raised. With regard to sensibility and disability pensioners, which this government has already agreed to do not enjoy as much with the general population due to the increases that occurred at the beginning of this year. I reiterate: Here's money to put in the health system payment program to create issues of greater solidarity. Here are money that can be used to keep the government's promise of building houses for the most efficient groups. Here is money that could be used, therefore, to ensure the equal positions of pensioners and disability. I can't understand the highest. The prime minister is going to have the members of the administrative committee turn the government on this matter. This is not to say that the administrative body has a greater part in the Council without a government minister. So I point out that it's a vote of the highest order. A minister of his own will determine whether his party and his government will rise or not in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u6	A respectable president. We've got a lot of work to do ahead of us. We've been dealing with a lot of things, but you can't do all of a sudden. I know why. A senator understands that. It is very important to go out and increase improvements or increase the cost of operating in certain institutions or investments, which are a significant need for many infrastructures around the country, that there is sustainable management, i.e. That the government's income depends on that. That's key. One factor in this was, as mentioned in this government bill, to ensure it in this way into the financial program. I can only say that the proposal will not go through here at this point. Either it must go through better with the committee before the fall, find a better argument, or take alternatively, since this 3.5 billion cannot be left without financial resources. We really need the money to do some good work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u7	A respectable president. Today a Global Slavery Index report was published, a world - wide search for slavery. The results are pretty striking because Iceland is in 49th place worldwide. It is estimated that more than 45 million people are enslaved in the world, but slavery, just to be clear, is defined as working under situations that they cannot leave because of threats, violence, tyranny, abuse of power, or fraud. I think it's very striking. We've heard a lot of reports about a man trader in Iceland. In view of the report, Iceland has the lowest international grade B, with the lowest international score and the lowest in Europe. A minister must take this very seriously, so I would like to ask what is being done in these matters and how to react. We can't live with this place. I'd love to get some answers from the highest. Minister if there is a plan going on and if it has had time to examine these findings and what will be done thereafter. This is not adequate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u8	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur Peter's Pétursdóttir's iron for the inquiry. I will admit that I had noticed this headline, but I had not studied the exact basis for the conclusions in these measurements. We've been working against the man traders according to a plan of action. What's been going on mainly in the past few weeks and months is that I think the whole community has been extending the definition of a man dealer and realize it. In the past, men were very busy watching the interaction between mantel and prostitution. On the other hand, we have come to realize that the work we have been thinking about can be done in the past. The government's education in cooperation with the workforce has been very important in this regard. It has also made a big difference in the cooperation between unions, employment agencies, and the work programme, where people have been more effective at work. We've had a conversation with the unions that generally turns to the labour market and how we want to define voluntary work in the light of recent events. However, I think, in view of what the discussion is new and the information we've been getting are new, that we certainly need to consider this conclusion, please review it, and I expect I will do it over the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u9	A respectable president. Thank you for the answer and for the highest. Minister to act. And I would like to reiterate that there are in many cases foreigners who are in this position. We need to deal with these issues and keep them from happening. There's one thing that's also been resting on me a little bit, that's when I read news about the World Championship to be held at Qatar, a soccer match, in 2022. There, as much as a slave labor continues, the Assembly Hall was determined after some members of the corrupt organization decided that this was a good idea. Several dancers and Norwegian teams have taken their turn and criticized this. I must ask, is Iceland going to participate in a contest for the Cat 2022 World Championship? Is that acceptable when we have information about how things are going there? Amnesty International has, e.g. published a very aggressive report on the treatment of workers, including from Nepal. [[The president calls.]] I'm interested in what's at the top of it. A minister thinks so. Are we going to get involved in this nonsense?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u10	A respectable president. If I could maybe come up with a little bit of the first part of the inquiry, about the manor in general. As I mentioned, we have been working under the government's policy on human repercussion that was approved in 2013 in 2013-2016. There has been no subsequent approval of a new plan. There were three procedures where the Ministry of Health was registered to the responsible, but the overall management of the case falls under the State Department of the Interior. We are considering physical, social, and psychological assistance regardless of legal registration, measures to ensure safe housing for all victims of the manalium, and how we can develop resources to improve social and mental functioning. In addition to this, what I mentioned is increasing cooperation with the unions in general to ensure that there is no social subsidiary and that people in the labour market are not being violated by human rights. Regarding the inquiry involved in our participation at a sports event, there have been many conflicting opinions about our participation and can be pointed to the Russian Olympic Games. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I do not intend to attend this assembly myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u11	President. I've just reviewed the Declaration of the State of Propulsion and Independence since 2013 and have some questions to the highest level. Prime Minister in connection with this. It says, by permission of the president: The government will seek to activate the nation's controversies and to counteract the divisive and suspicions that have characterized Icelandic politics and discussions in society for some time. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Where has the government been most successful in implementing the national cohesion? Is it perhaps the solidarity that the public showed by attending the largest protests in Iceland against the government? Or is it something else of the highest order? The prime minister feels that he has done better with it? Now, I'm going to step back into the policy declaration: In recent years the government also plans to eliminate the political uncertainty that has been too prominent in Icelandic society. The workforce and development of work markets will be expanded to a wide range of agreements with the labour market. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister where he feels that the government has been best successful in increasing credibility and trust in foreign fields. How has political uncertainty been eliminated? What was the exact uncertainty that the government was seeking to destroy during the spring of 2013? Again, I will take hold of the covenant, with the permission of the president: ▪ Society is a cooperative work where all jobs are important and that is holding hands. It is important to care for those who need help and also to be able to enjoy the results of their hard work and thinking. The elderly shall enjoy safety and welfare, and all shall be assured to share in the wealth that Iceland and the Icelandic nation can produce. Where's the top spot? The prime minister has succeeded in ensuring the safety and well - being of the elderly?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u12	A respectable president. I understand why. A senator would take over the Commission Treaty of the Agency and of the Independence Party, and a fine document showing a positive vision of many aspects of the future. Hv. However, a senator mentioned some things. What uncertainty was there up here? Yes, in the opinion of many people, the same was true. Talked here about a variety of people I can't even remember who are, okay? Senator. There was talk of political uncertainty. They said investing here was hard, including ... fora capitalshaft. We've been working on them getting rid of them all this time, destroying uncertainty that investing in Iceland is really good. With regard to the work market, we have been working systematically on various aspects of the workforce. These include SALEK. These include a national economy that will be available in the days ahead. There has been progressive work, both in cooperation with the workforce's partners. Here, too, is why. A senator spoke of reducing divisions, and I also mentioned it in my speech yesterday, that at the present council the matter was handled here to make a low proportion of no-a, i.e. with 1.8 negatives to every 100 yess. This is no doubt an example of less divisive and more content. It even appeared. Here at the Assembly Hall as a guide for the community, social groups, or stakeholders to believe that this is a group of people making progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u13	President. What fine answers those were to very clear questions! I'd like to ask the highest. Again, where does he feel he has been most successful in ensuring the safety and well - being of the elderly? I'm going back to the declaration of this policy. It is so easy to make beautiful paths, but it is not easy to enforce them. By permission of the President: ▪ It must be ensured that all the people of the country, regardless of individual factors and positions in other respects, such as farms, should cultivate the virtues that best bring success and equality. I'd like to ask, and I'd like to have a clear answer to where it's at. The prime minister feels that he has done the best thing to do in ensuring the equality of all the people of the land? What virtues result from the greatest success and equality?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u14	A respectable president. The best displayed virtues in society are people's understanding of the individual ideals of others, fellow feeling for the things that humans face, i.e. being able to relate to others, and to want governments to handle matters with those who are less fortunate and who need further help, and how has this been so? [[Up front.]] In recent social security statistics, which may not have been in March or April, the evolution of all aspects of society, equality between different groups; between genders, between age groups; and other factors that weigh and assess people's feelings was best. These factors have developed in the right direction and may be one of the best criteria for us to be on the right road. Are we at the end yet? No. You can always do better than that. It's a challenge for politicians to do better today than yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u15	Mr. President. I have previously noted from this talk the urgency of making a election day and, earlier, as a result of the proposed total elections in the fall. This is sanctified in the first place because changes in elections laws are necessary for the Generals when an irregular election day is due in the fall and by December 1st, as now aims to avoid the loss of foreign countries on a large scale of elections or the possibility of applying to renewing their species on an elected list. In fact, needed legal adjustments made by the Council Presidency Committee of the Council are difficult to complete unless it has been established. Second, it is urgent to decide a termsday, for an off-election agreement will begin eight weeks before the election. It is mid - August, if chosen in mid - October. Third, politicians, prospective candidates, and groups are beginning to prepare for election these days, except for the forwarding category, and it is absurd to keep men unsure about the longer exact date of the election. The candidates seem to be alone in trying to talk themselves away from their promises or the government of elections in the fall. However, it will not be so that progress will sit alone in the council and in the government during the next winter in opposition to the majority will of II and other classes. The promise of elections in the fall was not given to the opposition, and it was not given to political scientists and economists who, of course, look forward to their feasting. The promise was given to the Icelandic nation to take matters into their own hands in the fall. With this support, I ask the highest. Prime Minister: Does the government and the greater part of it fulfill their promise to the nation of elections in the fall or not? A clear answer would be required. Second, if the promise is not to be broken, will it not be yours to the highest degree? Prior to the completion of our work, the prime minister will agree with the rest of the other classes on the elected day? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u16	A respectable president. In fact, it might be interesting if the advance party was in power alone in the fall. But for fun and humor to be released from this chair, it is not usually used for such purposes, it may become a more fun kitchen - day talks if only used, then the situation is, and it has been very long before the executives have said that the election would be announced in the fall, and it would certainly depend on how the council was doing. I said in my speech yesterday that the Senate job had gone pretty well. It's also clear, and I agree with the what. A senator, that a certain preparation must take place, not just for democracy, for the existing political parties, but possibly for new parties to prepare for elections. Then there are some aspects of technical implementation, such as why. A senator came in, ensuring that the election is not accepted by people who live abroad, and for this timing, it is necessary to be available on sufficient notice. I've said it's going to be a little shorter to be informed about it. On the other hand, when a person says that a date is called for, it is, of course, not legally binding until, like a man has broken a council. A senator knows, and then the election shall be held within 45 days. But I agree with what. A member of the council that it is important that it become clear sooner than later so that humans can prepare properly. The short answer to the first question is yes. The media trusts in elections, such as any political party. Of course, like other political parties, they begin their preparations for the election planned in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u17	Mr. President. It's only brushed in the right direction, but it's still hairy and liquid yet. Short for etc. It's like the highest. A prime minister did not understand the seriousness of the matter. It is not, for many reasons, acceptable to be putting off the day of the election. It is an example for us to do so first by means of a political agreement made by all classes. Then comes the legal and administrative programme. I don't understand the highest. Prime Ministers and forwarders that they fail to see the intense light they place themselves in this challenge. They are like a grouse who wants to postpone Christmas in order to live another few weeks. It's perfectly condemned. I'm here with a calendar, chief. Prime Minister, and I can hand it over to you and teach you afterwards, if necessary. It's not that complicated. The Saturday days of October are 1, 8, 15, 22, and 29. If we're talking about October, this is it. If we are talking about the middle of the month, which would be desirable in the winter, then the ultimatum will begin in August 20. [[The president calls.]] It must be a long day before the Council regroups. So we're supposed to do this now, the highest. Prime Minister, and not a day later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u18	A respectable president. It's all right. A senator shows his skills in calendar. I can assure him that other members of this hall know the same way too. Of course, it's like that, so I'm gonna answer the question again, that the candidates aren't afraid of elections. After what we have accomplished during the election season, we, of course, dare put our work into the court of voters. So you're wrong. Senator. In terms of the presentation and the questions, if we take them directly, I agree with the senator that this must be done well in advance so that men can prepare themselves. But we're now at the end of May, and it's a long way to the election. But you're right. For democracy to prepare, and to ensure that all can choose as they will, they must have enough advance advance advance notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u19	President. Laws from 1989 established the Social Ministry School. He's employed by the All-American Union of Iceland, BSRB, and the common educational and educational relationship. The latter took business into the school business. His role is to increase the knowledge of public unions and strengthen them in their work so that they can be better equipped to work on the standard of living. In recent years, there has been an increasing growth in education and education, all for the good. It seems in a pill I have here in front of me that the funds for this school dropped over the years. It's interesting to me that last night the council was given a bill to the law, the carriers are young. Generals of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson and Vigdís Hauksdóttir, to destroy this school. This happens at the same time that students 25 years of age and older are being locked into high school. They can imagine that those who no longer have money to go to private schools would like to attend courses or education right through their unions. I'd like to ask the highest. Social Minister: How does she feel about her sister's suggestion? paritaprevir Lord Þór Þórðarson's son to the Social School Act, No. 60/1989, away?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u20	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. I don't agree that it's the right to close social school all the time. We have put extra funds into a number of activities involved in the workforce. We have even. needed to prepare a great number of meetings involved in the SEK convention and put some money into the implementation of the labour market policy. In conversation with the labour market, I have stressed that when we make adjustments, they make good conversation and agree with them. It hasn't always worked out, nor has it been for my Minister's season. However, I believe that if these changes are to be made, they need to be made in consultation with the individual.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u21	I'm glad to hear the answer. The Minister that she is opposed to this proposal. She puts it this way: if these changes are made, they should be made in cooperation with the labour market or with the union. I would appreciate it if she confirmed that this is out of the question on her part and that she prefers to further support for the current system, especially in view of the highest level. The minister of education is closing into the school of older people, who might be interested in using such opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u22	A respectable president. Hv. A senator wants me to be clearer. I've been a minister for three years. I haven't suggested a change to Social School at the time. I haven't submitted a bill to cancel those laws. As we prepare funds, we expect these funds to go on there. I, however, have one vote of 63. I reiterate that we have put much emphasis on adding the conversation to the workforce. As a result, we were able to negotiate agreements for four years in spring, which is the basis for another stability in the economy. Even there was a number of them. The agreement to place extra funds for the Ministry of Education into a professional education. I reiterate what I said that the changes we make in this regard need to be agreed with the labour market partners.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u23	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize government action against tax fraud, et cetera. The bill contains a number of legal modifications for the control of tax frauds due to ownership in low taxes, but it is assumed that a special financial and economic group will make further suggestions for changing the law, regulations and procedures that will make up the Icelandic government's policy against tax collections and the use of tax industry in general. These include the BEPS project, the rules for thin self-finishing that have been considered and forwarded, and the limitation of money from partners in low tax countries to name something. In general, we have considered these factors to be a need for further superiority, some of which have been in control for a long time. The issues I have specifically identified, as well as the Icelandic government's monitoring of international developments on these topics, will be considered in the staff. This is where I'm going to account for the changes in proposals found in the bill. First, there is a limit to the loss of a partner in a low taxes state. First, it should be noted that the bill suggests the use of employers in low taxes. This leaves no doubt that unless a business enterprise has practiced real employment and a taxpayer has the means to provide sufficient data that are fundamental to the loss and translocation of the business, it is forbidden. Second, there is a limit to the activities of a partner in low taxes. It is suggested in the bill that fusion, division, cross-border transfer of individualizers in the private sector and in the transfer of a lawhouse or property to a partner in a low tax state will only be allowed in which income taxation is permitted, taking into account the deductor, is comparable to that of this country. The source thus does not refer to a generally defined national partner. It is then suggested that permission to postpone the pay of reimbursement due to outlets is canceled if property, rights, and commitments are made to low taxes. It is further suggested that, in addition to the limitation of the taxation of income, taking into account the deductors, is comparable to that in this country, the obligation to demonstrate that there is real employment in the company located in the low taxation state has been established, for the transfer of funds to the lower tax countries has taken place through these countries, and therefore a strong reason to set legal barriers that limit this flows. This brings to the third point, which is a review of the CFC Directive for further explanation. The bill suggests a review of the CFC Protocol involved in the taxation of direct or indirect ownership of partners, funds or institutions in low taxes. All of this is for further explanation. The directive was then written to the Norwegian model, and despite the fact that the term is expressed in the Norwegian Law text used for the application, it has revealed that a direct explanation has been observed and that the term did not limit the concept to being viewed as a transfector of income and property taxation from its owners. In this situation, taxation is thus determined by involvement in income and homes of the deductors, i.e. The other taxpayers, kind of. The owners thus enjoy the experiences of the deductors who are all households, depending on the nature of the income. To further increase the law, therefore, the concept of income is suggested to replace the concept with profit. In this situation, any type of income, the income would be the income of the owners, regardless of the type of income, i.e. e.g. interest or interest. The decision is to include taxation from partners, boils, and institutions, and distributions in the form of interest are thus not applicable in all cases. Instead of making profits, the expression "buying " is presented with a version of income, which means" income. " A wording of requirement and internal harmony in the use of term should prevent misunderstandings with the resulting conflict. Fourth, changes in financial and legal information are recommended. The bill suggests that in addition to financial contributions, accountants, legislators, and other sources who provide international tax advice and foreign service, it is obliged to put in a record of those who accept such counseling and services by the tax authorities. Then they should also provide them with all the information about the activities and property that may be known to them. In addition, it is suggested that, in the case of a corporation, a fund, or an institution that is considered to be permanent in a low tax state, the advisors and service providers should provide unsolicited records with all information on the activities and property they should be aware of. On this point, I would like to say a few words in particular. Here is a very long way to demand initiative advice when it comes to providing information on matters relevant to advice on low taxes. There's no question about it. There's been almost a question about the confidentiality of lawyers and other counselors here. There's almost the right to consult a head without having to report to the official check-up. I expect the committee involved in the matter to take time to examine the viewpoints that must be guided by the rules of principle as these. I've heard this in general discussion that it was best to do it simply penalties giving advice to an institution of low taxes. That's something I don't think it's possible to do. Of course, such an idea has to do with the idea of banning the organization of such organizations or using them in some way. My opinion is that it is not a successful way to achieve success, whether for Iceland or international, but it is much more likely to be successful in working with other nations to get closer to the root of the problems that are secret, tax fraud, and detriment, the money - control, and the illegal activities that have been involved in the covert of secrecy. To be more effective, instead of going through the forbidden route and the punishable route, it is time to build on the basis of the laws we have already fixed in the law, which are to be found, for example. In the laws that are being changed--then, for example, I am to refer to the CFC principle - and to rely on the requirements and to take into account all the advice we can apply in addition to information exchange agreements in order to ensure adequate information about the activities of these partners. Why just these partners? Yes, because we know that it can be difficult, despite the information exchange agreements, for the Rapporteur, the tax, to retrieve the information. It is the special justification for laying the burdens on those who come to counsel on these matters to report the advice and the factors mentioned in the bill uninvited. There's a lot of charge, but I believe that justification exists because the information has been difficult to find, not just for us Icelanders, but on a international level, to get. This has been difficult. The next item of the bill is the authority to re-enact. In current law, it exists for the past six years. This is where we are asked to change the law so that because of income and property in low taxes, which have not been adequately explained, there is a authority to reevaluate the length from six years to ten years. It is always counted from the year that the decision is made. It has been shown that years, even decades, may have passed before taxation was discovered, such as through a low taxation state. Under such circumstances there is a situation that is not comparable to the circumstances faced by the public taxpayers, such as by IRS. Therefore, it is not unusual for the tax authorities to be given more time to trace such issues as this as well as the possibility of an increase in tax reimbursement. I think it's fundamental that we're not extending the decision-making rights in general, but we're looking at the problem that often comes with the secrecy of low taxes. It is the special justification. I'm going to refer to the same principle as the next bill that touches the expiration time, as is suggested that tax reimbursement be extended from six years to ten years, it is suggested that an expiration time be extended from six years to ten years. It's the same argument. These two principles hang together. According to current legislation, major fractures persist over the course of ten years, but with this change, not just major violations of tax laws. Increased access to information on currency ownership is next. It can be said that this is indirectly related to the discussion of low taxes and to the need of governments for increased authority. It is suggested that financial information on the property status of currency be added to the availability of the stocks. It is the job of the government funds fund to ensure that taxes will be returned to government funds and rural communities. In such cases where taxes are not paid, a tax collector should employ appropriate collections for neglect. In order for the action to be most effective, the body members of the body needs sufficient information on taxpayers' property, including foreign property. Residents of the state funds have only access to property, ship and driving records of the local country and can be said to have the only information that the taxpayers have on the property of the taxpayers. When it comes to the full level of foreign property owned by the Icelandic taxpayers, there are international contracts for administrative assistance in collecting taxes. Since government funds don't have information on the property of Icelandic currency abroad, treaties with the collections of unrewarded taxes cannot be used in which a reference to the full amount of property is lacking. As a result, taxpayers can possess possessions abroad that could be achieved by the assistance of foreign authorities in the presence of adequate access to information on the property, to generate through tax returns. I'd like to say that in action a certain flow of information has been assured for this purpose. It is suggested that this should be clearly legalized, and the provision suggests that the tax payers of the state's funds will be obtained by the law of increased authority to verify the ownership status of currency by the disintegration, thus ensuring the right tax paid for financial gain and community. It is suggested that the head of state tax will be made available to law - trained representatives to the taxpayers, as the decision has been made to insist on advising the taxpayers on public fees. I would like to explain that there was an open door to research the property status of currency in general, but I believe that we should generally have such a bioavailability as limited as possible for various reasons, especially when there is a flow of information between institutions. Nevertheless, I believe it is very important that this warrant be legalized. This is taken into account in a special legal requirement that in the case of default, when taxpayers are in doubt as to whether the total amount of tax debt is possible, it is clear that taxpayers are authorized to look at the given property under tax returns. The requirement for this entry is to verify the individual's ownership status, as I say and the decision to make. The request is not expected to be sent to the county, and less is needed. This proposal has directed appeal to research on tax laws involving deportation, but information on foreign property is usually found only on their tax returns, as I have been doing. There are other requirements in the bill that were considered valid for applying the specific requirements that are to be applied to national society. This includes particularly increased risk factors and additional diagnostic work we would like to perform. The bill suggests that toll managers will be assigned to conduct a high-risk analysis in the area of government pay. We're here talking about a huge interest issue for society all over and risk analysis is one of the basis for efficiency to be available at the collection of public pay. This includes the authority to classify a debt on the basis of RMP methodology. Otherwise, the arrangement and explanations should be explained themselves. In its report since March 2011, a review of the need to establish an analysis department at the scene collected public pay. Five years have passed since then. The risk factors for full detection and management are to be taken into account for appropriate collection procedures, e.g. Social security index, i.e. in cases of executives and propcursors who have a history of abnormally many penalties, governments and subsidiary organizations that have been paid tax fines, subsidies in reimbursement of the tax authorities and sectores with an abnormally high percentage of scripts. This is a few examples, but it is time to make a specific arrangement. Toll government sources for the processing and media of personal information are eventually contained in the bill in a specific set of regulations. The customs department is located on the border, monitored by the export of goods, and therefore plays a vital role in the protection of society. The identified and effective management measures are dependent on the more effective risk management and therefore are put in place in all aspects of the activity to reduce the risk of illegal imports and priorities. The adjustment proposed in the bill is to ensure and prepare the current customs manager's activities in the management of information and to further explain the sources of sensitive personality information to increase transparency, further to ensure safety of the citizens, and to ensure safety of information. A respectable president. The main purpose of the changes involved in this bill is to drag the companies of Icelandic taxes into low taxes worlds, and thus their long - term influence should be positive for the survival of the State Fund. For example, with longer sources of reimbursement and longer expiration dates, due to income and property in low tax countries, as well as additional information obligations, the income of state funds may be increased. However, there is no information on the potential amount of money in this regard. It is also very difficult to estimate the impact of the planning on the survival of a Kingdom fund. In this connection, I would like to see that the work is done by a special task force which I have ordered to evaluate the extent of funding initiatives and property administration in ethnic areas, i.e. in countries defined as low taxes and restricted the exchange of information on property and income between countries. This is so that we can have better information about the extent of the situation and where the government's loss of income from such activities is possible. I hope that the task force will complete its work by the end of the summer, and then I will continue to present the results of the council. We all know that there have been numerous numbers in the discussion of how much of our community has been caused by tax fraud, illegal prowess. It is important for a calm discussion that we do everything in our power to control the scope and to prepare for a objective discussion of what may have happened in these areas. I'd like to say, though there's some evidence that although the scope of these cases has been considerable in its time, all the rest of the time has arrived. Hence, there is no reason to believe that their magnitude is today like what was before. This does not change the fact that it matters for the discussion that we realize how that point has developed specifically over time. I've always wanted to make a difference between what inaugurally is thus betrayed by taxation in Iceland, subtracted, and what's been on the table. What has been on the table has been subject to recent legal changes and will remain under the legal adjustment found in the bill, but with them together the benefits have been greatly reduced by the use of societies in under taxes for tax purposes. In fact, it may be reasoned that the legal environment has gradually been moving in the direction that not only benefits have been derived but it is less than none, it really is more to the harm, by the changing order we've been developing, but that a partner has been placed in some other state, let's say, In the European Economic Area. It is clear that those who would have formed a partnership in the European Economic Area that paid their taxes and obligations have in itself never been taking anything from a modern society. They have paid the corresponding taxes in that area or in the relevant country. As the law has been changed in this country in terms of the low taxes, it is not important in itself that taxes and taxes are being paid in the low taxes state because we have used certain guidelines, and if the taxes are under those guidelines, there is also a tax obligation in Iceland. It is only in low taxes that we have applied that rule. A respectable president. The project to be faced with taxes is, as I've only been on this site, not just a unique project, but an international one. It will be late for one nation to find a solution to all the challenges facing them. It will continue to improve international cooperation and cooperation, and Iceland will continue to take an active role. The events of the past few weeks and continued discussion of the tax industry have called for a direct response on the part of the Icelandic government, and we will continue to work hard on these issues. The bill I now present to the Council is one of the factors involved. I expect that there can be an excellent solid basis for solidarity on the points found in this subject. These points are similar to those recently expressed by a panel of states to have requested comments on the subject. All I hear is that most of these are excellent harmony. It is beyond reason to rejoice. I don't see in itself all the differences between whether we're going to end a case like this in this month or later this year, in August. I think that the best way to get a job done is to get a review and give the Senate a chance to review all the points so that I don't stress that the matter will be rushed through the council so that the committee will not be given the proper time and information. I realize, however, that there could be some point of view that could have been discussed, in addition to the ones found in the case, but I would like to draw back to the fact that there are other factors that will continue to be considered in a special group where our main experts from the founding system are sitting together on these issues. I reiterate what I've said before about the law that deals with counseling and how we are doing there only picking up its boundaries with the confidential counsellors. Although I believe that the matter is on the right side of the line, so to speak, I specifically refer to the justification based on experience that shows how difficult it can be for governments to get the information needed to add taxes in accordance with law. This point must be considered in a special way, and let us not be misled; this may lead to a loss of contact with Icelandic counselors; a person simply consults other countries free of the law; we should recognize that. But this is at least Efforts to do everything within our power to ensure that the information we know is present. In this regard, we also know that the tax authorities are already investigating the cases on their side. Get information into the financial system. There are, for example, many sources. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister of history, who can say that much of the bill is fine and should be able to get along well with a number of of of these material, which is mostly about making certain improvements in existing laws. There's a lot of things going on with the report given to the council by the Economic and Business Committee. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on two things. On the one hand, it is what he mentioned earlier that I found very interesting that was about trying to assess the scope of domestic business within what we could call taxes. It has been suggested by the government taxpayer that tax collections or tax frauds are about 80 billion a year. I want to pray to the highest. A minister to explain further as to whether he intends to proceed with this analysis and to evaluate the scope of domestic activity within it? The other thing I'd like to ask, which, of course, I would have liked to see in the bill, are rules of thin self-finishing. At the top. A minister had a conversation about it last November in which he informed them that such a bill was being produced within the Ministry. I want to go to the highest. Minister for where that work stands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u25	A respectable president. The general damage to the discussion is that we have information on the government taxpayer's opinion that the extent of tax fraud in Iceland may be around 80 billion. Of course, it's a gross guess, but it's based on knowledge from within the system. The project that I'm referring to is to evaluate the extent to which this may result from deportation, to the extent that they may share in the tax frauds that are involved. But I pointed to the fact that I believe that in the past there has been far more scope in this subject than we know today. I refer, for example, to the fact that financial companies have recently given the SEC answers that they have given no advice on this kind of advice for years. On the other hand, all I can say in itself is that government experts have had regulations about using their own financial resources to consider. [[The president calls.]] It's a technical complex matter that will continue to be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u26	Mr. President. I appreciate the answers. First of all, with this information, I agree completely with the highest degree. Minister, it is important that we discern the seriousness of the problem. The analysis of the taxpayer is 80 billion, which is calculated. That's absolutely right, she's in the position. We've also seen articles from outside parties, e.g. Scholars who value this problem even more extensive. So it is important that we try to get the most information. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does he see any legal obstacles? Of course, the biggest problem is a lack of information. Legal obstacles are something that we need to consider specifically so that the work force can get the information that needs to be drawn up so that we can get a good picture of the size of the problem. Has it been identified? Is it possible to collect information on the part of the local community as tax fraud? However, I would like to mention that the case of thin self-finance was referred to Government 2014. This has now been presented in a revised picture of me and my group members from the left movement of ◯ green supply and has been taken into account the comments and comments that were then made. [[The president calls.]] I'm the highest. A minister to look at that bill because Iceland has a great need for such rules, as many other European countries have already done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u27	Mr. President. For the need for legal change, I am not aware in advance that there are some walls, some walls, that will be struck when they try to approach the level of tax frauds associated with societies in the past and in the present. We will simply start our work. I do it because it makes me feel so important when we discuss these issues in the overall context that we have as good information as possible. If there is to be a change of law or order, we will consider it, indeed. The fact is that there have been a lot of money in the discussion, ranging from hundreds of billions to tens of billions of dollars a year. In some cases, I feel implied that we will still be until this day of tens of billions of dollars a year because of tax fraud. [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to say anything about it. [[The president calls.]] I think these figures have often been a bit inflamed in the discussion, but they would like to be discussed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u28	President. The first thing I want to say is that I think it's great that this bill for law has come out. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister to why it did not appear to have been before, but it appears that data leakage and one of the largest protests in Iceland was needed to force the law to take any form of its final form. I have a feeling the case was in preparation for some time in the Ministry, because you don't shake off such complicated layers in a few weeks. I also wanted to ask the highest. A minister of the fact that he says we are going to work with other nations. I wanted to know which nations were the best, and which country we've come to in this legal process, and whether the Minister can go over it a bit, this is now a very short time, whether we're trying to do the best of it or whether we're just trying to deal with the times. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u29	A respectable president. I view the matter as part of a leak that we now know about a few weeks ago. But once the case is established, the tax office has found some experience in relatively recent legal adjustments and on the basis of that experience, the tax work based on that experience was relatively easy to internalize in the administrative system, thinking that changes were needed to improve. We have a lot of qualified people, a lot of experts in this field. We may be the most powerful partners in the OECD. But I would especially like to assume that OECD has been in a special effort and is worthy of great commendation for the remarkable success that has been achieved in bringing nations together to a common effort in this regard. Not many years have I signed an international contract for Iceland on information exchange since the results have been obtained. We've watched even. To Norway and the example of the term change I mentioned on the review of the CCC Convention is intended for further explanation, in line with what we know in Norway.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u30	President. I appreciate the answers that were just pretty clear. I would like to ask, though, " Why hasn't this adjustment been made sooner? ' These have been known to be abused. Why hasn't this adjustment been made before? Then I wanted to ask if the highest. A minister supports changing laws so that such thin self - payment can be prevented. Finally, I want to praise the highest. Ministers because you do too little of this room to commend people for a good attitude. I think it's very good that we make time for an economic and business committee to cover the bill very carefully because it's all too common to be pushed through the council at too much speed, and it's like trying to deal with it with a pack of very wicked government agencies. So I'm glad to hear that it should not be tried to push this through in a few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u31	President. I can only say why the matter has not been mentioned before but that this knowledge has been building up, and then we have reason to gather these indications together. The tips are from the head of the IRS, from the head of the state tax, we get tips from the toll manager. And then, of course, we have knowledge of the Ministry and we need more knowledge in international cooperation. But as to whether we're going the best possible way, I can't say anything about it. I call attention to the fact that we are not going that way to ban and punish. We're giving guidance and we're trying to minimize the benefits, we're making sure that we use all our resources to expose our secrets. That's the way we're picking with the bill, and it's been fixed in its previous legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u32	Mr. President. What a wonderful experience it is to sit here in the audience watching the rebirth of the highest level! Secretary of finance. I couldn't see better than that. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon shed tears of tears under this speech, since Indriði herself could have composed it, she was so good. I thought of a Biblical appeal when Páll frá Tarsus was on his way to Damascus and struck with lightning and separated all the new understanding from that, but also called Sál. I wondered what name the highest. The secretary of finance is going to notice this rebirth. But like others, I say: It's a wonderful speech. We have been waiting 15 years for the head of the Independence Party to give such a talk. I congratulate him on that. But it took a revolution to do so. One last question. I don't doubt it when it's the highest. According to a minister, he wants to do everything he can to eliminate the abuse of his country accounts. Why not take the step to the full and simply forbid the Icelanders to own accounts in countries where our own institutions say they cannot verify the information? [[The president calls.]] Why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u33	A respectable president. I want to draw attention to what. A senator says that I am not only a minister of mine that, despite all that has been said in the council, we are working together to impose low taxes and, in particular, the secret that they have wanted to maintain, but I am on the fictitation, making such changes in the pressures of taxes that it has brought more money to the State than it would otherwise have been. We did this by moving the tax loads, from people to financial companies, from house to house, and from house to house. This is a basic question raised here. Which is more likely in these matters to forbid business with a low tax State or to press on and demand communication? That question has been answered internationally. We've been on the wave that OECD has led and all of our major cooperation countries. [[The president calls.]] I believe that this method would be more effective than banning the law because there is no guarantee of failure.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u34	A brother in Christ. We fully know that the Independence Party has always been against the law-change of this kind, has been the class that has always drawn its feet. The party is to buy life and that government life by means of this change. There were 22 of you. a man outside that demanded a change in this style. V.E.G. The minister of finance lost his prime minister to this and could have lost more than that. But God let it go, and I'm on top of it. Secretary of finance for this change. I just wish she'd come earlier. But I don't think he knows anything about it when he says it's less of a show than it used to be. Could it be that the market was just saturated? Has the highest. Ministers listened to a radio program in which the vice president of the budget board, huh? paritaprevir Gulsome Þór Þórðarson, claimed that the information about these 600 to 1,000 persons was just the top of the iceberg that came through this Panamian company? Hv. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þór of Þórðarson claims that there are many others. [[The president calls.]] Only 5% means it's maybe 12 yous. [[The president calls.]] Icelanders with such bills, even though there was no great effort to get others to that shelter. I maintain that the most important thing, Mr. President, is investigating the scope. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what we do at the highest. Secretary of finance is required to join the organisation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u35	A respectable president. We agree that we must simply do what we can to draw close to the truth about how much tax fraud has been. That's absolutely basic. That is why I have established a special group of work to draw closer to the truth about it. But why do I suspect that the scale is less today than before? Let's not mix different things. One thing is that we've only seen part of the picture. I think I'm right next door. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - Þór of Þórðarson, who was referred to, knows that we have received information from one direction. We haven't been informed of everything that was going on, but the information gives us a clue. One indication is that large numbers of companions have been closed. Old banks have been closing much of their numbers, we know that. We also know from the tax authorities that they appreciate it as a result of a great decrease. We also know that in Iceland it was the banks with their foreign branches that were the pioneers in it, were the icebreakers, and the main advisers, and took all the initiative. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These are the clues on which I make my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u36	A respectable president. I welcome this bill and its goals as described by them. At the same time, I see myself moved to come up and make certain that everything is in moderation. A moderate amount of guidance must always be exercised when a person makes burdensome rules. V.E.G. The minister of finance was well aware that some of the principles in the bill were certainly going beyond the limits of human rights and other human rights. I agree with the law that he tore up in a talk about the obligation of lawyers to inform me about his clients and even those who turn to them. As a result, I would like to ask the minister if there are any examples of the use of this rule and whether it is in force in any other country. Then I refer specifically to a matter of law enforcement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u37	A respectable president. I do not have the answer to the question of whether we have a precedent for this provision from another source. They try to approach the subject without going so far as to forbid counseling. It has been brought into the discussion that we should even counsel on these matters in a legal way. I'm not impressed with the obligation to inform the tax authorities about this, either. Justice in itself can only be the fact that those enjoying the services of low taxes can, under certain circumstances, enter into a hiding place. It's really the justice. It must be weighed against the other rights of people in order to seek advice from head to head, the right to provide counseling and confidentiality. [[The president calls.]] Then we can weigh this in a little larger context.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u38	A respectable president. I appreciate that. It is thus in the current legal sense that lawyers and accountants are obliged to keep a record of those seeking counsel on foreign property. This is a set of regulations made in 2009, and I'm not sure that it's quite complete. But as many as one reason has not been made a comment on the provision plan since its entry. However, there is much further to the point where experts do not need to be asked to provide this file and beyond it, they need to be monitored and put on observation of the property of their customers abroad, in the countries designated by a low tax state, which is a specific definition so they need to have the definition of angry hands. That's what I think. The Economic and Business Committee needs to investigate specifically with other guidelines here, e.g. the expiration times to be extended for ten years, particularly in view of the general storage of accounting data for only seven years. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] All of this needs to be kept in mind, of course, when it comes to creating financial companies rolling on their heads that information cannot be acquired back ten years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u39	A respectable president. Neither is the burden of evidence being reversed in itself. It may be difficult, then, for the tax authorities to collect the information or information. However, the file should be kept in accordance with local requirements. It is added that the authorities should be informed about operations and possessions that they can be aware of. In addition, the obligation is to give up unsolicited information. I'll go first, and I actually did it during the discussion, and I'll take it because this is a very long time. Therefore, I feel that it is important that the committee be given time to consider the proposed process. In the end, we need to ask ourselves, " How far can I go in law? Just as far as I want to go in order to be effective in this regard? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u40	A respectable president. I'd like to celebrate the bill being presented here. I think it's very important in many ways. It is a joy to see the government launching sleazy words on matters relating to bringing adequate resources to the authorities to deal with, as far as possible, property in societies and other factors are concerned. I specifically mention the regulations that are expected to increase access to information on currency status. This is shown by the bill that the government's authority in this regard has repeatedly been shown to be much lower than in neighboring countries. To be honest, it's amazing that this material has not been handled before. But what a joy it is to be done! It is a pleasure to see that the minister of the Independence Party trusts in the changes proposed. However, I would like to bring up a few points that I consider of interest to the committee in her work. First of all, what is the highest. Secretary of finance previously traced the information of financial institutions, lawyers, and other advisers. It is certainly possible that this could have an effect on the Icelandic people who want to shelter property elsewhere than on land. But I think there's still no choice but to take this step because there's a chance that the rules will also be hardened in our neighboring countries over the next few years. Water always finds a way, but I think it will be harder and harder and important for us to walk ahead with a good example. There is also an observation in my mind, which I would like to roll up and ask the committee to check, the prolongation of the records to re-evaluate, and the stress fines from six years to ten years due to the funds stored in under tax countries. Now we see reports indicating that here for decades those involved in a foreign trade have been in a position to store up and do so. Their possessions are still intact. I wondered: " Why should the boundaries be set at ten years if it is a determined offense to keep property from Icelandic tax law, even in the past, in the form of a curse on currency? I wondered, " If the penitentiary is clear, why is the expiration time ten years? ' Why is he no longer longer nor is he allowed to make any further decision - making decisions? Why should anyone be able to keep this secret for ten years? Secondly, I wanted to ask the highest. The secretary of finance in particular, wishing that at the end of the discussion, he would agree to see if the changes that are now being made in order to increase access to information about currency status are so extensive that they are now making the situation here comparable to what it is in neighboring countries. Is it really possible to respond to all the comments attributed to the bill that have been found in the publication of Public Review of Public Remuneration since 2011 and recommendations to State Review, to the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, which have been repeated in 2014? Is this really the case? Is the fact that it is comparable to what we have in neighboring lands? I'm not going to extend the discussion to an unnecessary point, but I'm going to describe satisfaction with the bill in other ways. I believe, however, that the committee takes the time to review it during the summer committee work so that it can be processed until the end of August.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u41	Madam President. I'd like to say in the beginning what was said in my counterparty earlier, that it's a pleasure to begin with. Ministers give this bill even if I can say so. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's bug that I'd wanted to go further and also tell God what's good about these matters. First of all, these are the changes to explain and sharpen the current laws, both in the light of available experience, but also the changes made by the partners that mainly work on these issues, in order to form meetings. The Economic and Business Committee, the question of what might be done better. However, it is far different from all the indications listed in the report that, of course, are primarily a summary of the mentioned indications. I view this as an excellent first step and then join in with them. Councilmen who have spoken that it is important to consider the matter carefully on the committee. Here, for example. added, like the highest. A minister went over, further implementation of the CFC rules, which were legalized during the last term, according to experience. It is also proposed to change the authorities to re-evaluate taxes and the expiry of tax fractures and treatment points, which are all in harmony with what was observed in the local tax investigator, taxpayer and other sources who visited the Economic and Business Committee. I mentioned before especially what is not discussed in the bill. I'd like to mention that in the report by the Economic and Business Committee, there are some things to be considered. First, there is a thin self - esteem. I like it because we've been doing it for a while at the council for quite a few years. A bill was given to the Parliament's Environment of 2013◯2014, which was directly followed by a review of the Economic and Business Committee and was referred to by the Committee as a case to the government. I must say that I have been disappointed to learn that the proposal adopted in the spring of 2014 has very little to say, and that raises questions. When the council has put such anti - political emphasis on stress, I feel bad that it is not going faster. V.E.G. Ministers have reviewed in speech the importance of following what is taking place in the general OECD strategy he mentioned earlier, BEPS program, but it does not change that other countries in Europe and within OECD have been establishing such rules. What is this about? It's about a particular type of tax policy that attracts large companies. We have countless international examples of this. This has been discussed in the United States, where large corporations have been found to import huge profits, tax - free taxes, from countries to low taxes. They have been protected by their being legal and rulers as sole obligation to maximise the profits of owners. There have been issues related to business chains such as Google, Apple, Starbucks, and this has been discussed with international companies working on the country and has been discussed to form aluminium companies. I think there's good reason for us to handle this matter. I mention again what I mentioned in very short time before that I have presented this bill again, revised from comments received to the Economic and Business Committee at its time, so the complete resolution of the case has been changed in order to take their account. In view of the highest. A minister noted that the problem is natural. A financial and business committee takes the time to review the bill he gives, and I can agree with it, I think there is every reason we can measure for this bill, even before the council is out, so that the committee can take it into account with this case. I'm glad that this case has been very much handled by sources. It has been stated that the council's will to handle the case is taken care of, and if we are allowed to measure for such a bill, it will be interesting to receive a vision of that by the Ministry of Economics, whether the Ministry considers it to be possible to legalize such rules. Of course, there are other factors to consider. Of course, it is an international subject. This is not to say that it is possible to save everything in these matters by making legal adjustments in Iceland. I think we senators in this hall are all or most of us agree that it's important to have international cooperation. I agree with the highest. Minister it's important. Information contracts are important. The transparency is important. Yet, it is still possible for mine to examine more things than is mentioned in the bill. I would like to mention whether there is any reason to cross a bill that now lies in the Economic and Business Committee on annual accounts, whether there is any reason there to make certain changes in pace with the spirit in this bill and to address the requirements for these accounts. It's also important, like the highest. Minister mentioned, this really is the requirement for counsellors to submit information automatically. There's no penalty. I fully understand that there is something that is normal in talking and evaluating the consequences of such a thing. I wondered about some hardwood laws like that. to avoid returning the available data, which was one of the committee's topics and, in fact, there are clear sources of pressures and schemes, whether there is a reason to look at the penalty. The bad guy said that, I just want to talk to you about it. I mentioned it in excellent discussions the other day about a vision for the tax system, which was of interest in many aspects, that more and more people point to the international tax discussion that the tax system has a wide range of purposes. They have the intention of earning money for communities at any given time. They have the purpose of many people, and people don't agree entirely with that, to level income, equal to their income, and for which we often have a step - apart tax system, to which we have taxes that are supposed to be levelable, such as taxation on food on the other hand and other consumer products on the other. There is an equal thought, and then we can debate how exactly we will achieve that goal and how far we will go in it. A third objective, which has become increasingly prominent in international tax discussions, e.g. OECD, is that the tax system must also ensure a specific transparency. We have these suggestions, and I feel that we need to ask ourselves, " Do I feel that I am sufficiently successful in reaching that goal? ' Can we do better? I'll mention the cases I've been talking about earlier, e.g. the thin self-financing. I also mention the annual bills requirements. I also mention the requirements of the so-called final owners of a shareholder file. This has been discussed at the council, where it should live in law, and how far we can walk on land in such demand of possession. It has been pointed out to be complicated by the fact that these are not international rules that apply evenly. But I think it's something we should look at very closely if we want the role of the tax system to be transparent too. It has been noted that in the system we have built up in recent years and decades, we have not really much data on how wealth spreads between people, but scholars, economists, continue to care for more and more, watching how the world's wealth divides between people. The dissociation has become the real subject of research by scholars in colleges all over the world. Then it's a little interesting to see how hard it is to acquire such data. The French economist Thomas Piketty has put it directly, in effect, to say that bank secrets and the great rules about bank secrecy, which are especially associated with low tax areas and societies, are only another way to give certain individuals the possibility of choosing their taxes. Of course, individuals and businesses can pay their taxes and fees if they choose, but the secret means that they have a choice. It's this transparency and secrecy that we have to work against in our international cooperation, but it's also here at home. I will review this bill with an open mind with the goal that we are going further in the transparency. I believe it is important that the committee uses the work ahead of them to see what else they can do. I am stressing that we are doing something in a thin self-finance where the will of the council has been placed since spring 2014. We have an excellent suggestion that we should probably be able to use the summer to cover and cooperate with the Ministry so that we can use the will here to make a positive change towards transparency and finish this case in the fall. I hope we're going beyond the highest level recommended. Minister. I hope so. Committeemen on duty. I agree that we put this matter first and work hard so that it will be over in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u42	Madam President. There is a good deal of discussion about these matters that we do not save the world by changing the laws at home. That attitude was very strong by the highest power. Secretary of finance earlier. But how important it is that we show a willingness and a personal example! First, weed the weeds out of our garden so that we can point others out and say: "This is how we can do things. That's why it's important that we go far. I'm just hoping we'll go beyond this bill, though in many ways it's fine. When I'm at the highest. The secretary of finance has had a discussion that has been difficult to deal with in this matter, he has always said: Icelanders have gone far and far beyond others. Then he's pointed out two things: first, double tax contracts and second, CC rules. If I remember correctly, these two-folding contracts are nearly 50 and we're about. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon made most of them during the last term. That was a good time. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask, which finally went against the laws on the special policy, which he and other members of Congress had then spent almost 15 years trying to drag through various other governments. However, experience shows that using the twofold tax agreements is very complex. It'll work, but it'll take a long time. We also know that experience showed that the rules did not go far enough. Whether these changes are taking place far enough is doubtful. That is why I continue to take the step further and simply forbid Icelanders to have bills in taxes, where the IRS agencies say that information cannot be verified. Men were here for many years, beating their heads with claims that it wasn't gonna come out of the EEA. Lord faithful! What has happened in these last few weeks? Then EsSA has stepped forward and said: "It's okay. [[The president calls.]] If that's where they're at, I'll ask them why. Senator: Is it not important that we take it step by step and change the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u43	Madam President. I agree with what. Senator. As I think this bill has been clearly presented in my speech, I consider it to be a good start. But I believe it can go a lot further. I believe the Economic and Business Committee should do so and review this bill based on proposals. It is evident that it is based on the proposals of the founding institutions. I'm glad they're being listened to. They have also been well informed at the Committee's meetings that these institutions indicated that this was not new information, that they pointed it out for quite some time. That is exactly where the rules adopted, the CFC rules, and that they would have been a major step forward. Of course, there were some information exchange agreements that I now believe were at least More than 30 in the last term. The dog. A senator next to a rosary might think about it better. To go further? Yeah. I made particularly the subject of the thin self-finishing process. However, we have also discussed, and it is absolutely true that we are going much farther in the European Union, in OECD, than we have seen in the past. I mention the rules that are now being discussed in the United Kingdom, which involve information on tax related activities between countries, particularly considering the low taxes called Jersey and Guernsey, the most prominent islands in the British discussion that are taking a much more drastic step than we have ever seen in these substances. This is followed by a summit against corruption, which was held in the days where 300 economists sent a challenge to the national leaders, which urged that taxes would be banned simply because there was nothing healthy with such organizations or businesses. They were primarily designed for a healthy business environment. They would have no economic motivation, either for developing countries or for developing countries. About a question why. I would like to listen to it when such different scholars come and encourage the kingdoms of the world simply to ban debinos. I think there's something we should react to, of course. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u44	Madam President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator does not have to wait for some foreign scholars in that regard. She should just listen when I'm here. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon tells us about these materials. We have had very clear opinions about this. Of course, the fact is that for us who have been involved for a long time in this discussion, the things we're talking about right now and lying here on the table like self-designed things, they were almost a taboo in these Parliaments about 15 years ago, basically everywhere. It was quite unfashionable when politicians from Iceland or elsewhere tore those cases abroad. These cases have advanced in OECD, I would say the last decade. Especially in later years. And if I'm right, it wasn't until the Americans began to swing around in these chemicals that they really listened to. But the last few years, including this government, may be the time when humans have simply swam through this current, not against the one sometimes made by the Icelandic government. They didn't think it was very good. So I think we have made a good impression on these matters. The bill we have here is good as far as it goes. In some substances, such as With this stuff, it won't go far enough. I believe, after the ESA declaration of the days, the only argument against taking up such a prohibition has been thrust away. I don't see anything wrong with telling people not to do business because it's known that such illegal assistance is offered. We have recently seen one example of how the embassies had apparently been shot aside for decades and kept in taxes and never paid a dollar of it. One case. Well, how many do they have? Now, again, I refer to the vice president of the budget board that claims to have been established 12 thousand such organizations. [[The president calls.]] I guess it's up to 80 billion in here. The commission has been calculated by the secretary of finance for decades? I don't think.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u45	Madam President. Before I begin quoting some foreign scholars, I also want to keep in mind regularly quoting talks. paritaprevir Össur Skarphéðinsson's son and what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who is always improving in this chamber to review them regularly. [[Hear, hear.]] But that's right. A senator says. I wasn't here 15 years ago. But the discussion has developed very fast. The reason I allow myself to mention the experts is that the discussion has also developed very quickly within my teachers. This trend may have come primarily from Europe, the European university community, which is actually being transformed in this field of education. I think it's interesting. I think it shows that the difference itself has become the subject of research by economists. Then we must ask ourselves, " What are the goals of the financial system that we have built up? ' Is it to make things worse or not? Without a doubt, when we give people a choice of their own tax percentage, i.e. Those who have it, we are likely to contribute to it. It is a goal that we must want to work against if we take up the balance role. And thus we must want to make the tax system more profitable. As far as debinos themselves are concerned, they too have become more fundamental talk, no matter what the discussion here was 15 years ago. That's why we're supposed to celebrate. We see governments, whether on the right or on the left, taking that torch up, and we see a completely different debate from all the political colors. I'm gonna let me celebrate this bill. But I want to see it go further. I want the Economic and Business Committee to cross the bill with the aim of taking further steps to ensure transparency and to ensure a natural tax system. I also state that it is important to consider questions. Senator, we're getting more data. I also hope that the assessment is the highest. A minister preached here mainly early in August so that it can be used for further development in this language. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u46	Madam President. I can agree with that with what. paritaprevir Össur's Accused Skarphéðinsson, however, that in many respects it was historic and enjoyable to listen to the highest language. Secretary of finance is moving history here for this kind of bill. Of course, he gets a stick for the effort. True, I felt the look on the highest. A minister while he did not give his testimony, so he was delivering a special message of joy on his part. And, of course, this is not a joyful subject. [[Up front.]] In the chapters, I thought of the ancient greeting: 'The very rough tongue to stir.' V.E.G. The minister of finance became a little tense when he was referring to the reasons for taking those actions. But better human life is the best thing to live, and it is entirely correct to compare with the conduct of the Icelandic government during the turn of the century, and afterward the grandest change is a pleasant change. Minister is offering a bill on government action against tax fraud, etc. This bill's efforts focus primarily on building tax frauds through this channel. Of course, it is a fine pay, but the main point is the approach here, and it reduces the dose to the other components of this matter, which is stopping into holes open for tax profiling, i.e. These terms are to be distinguished. Of course, this is a solid agreement, and no one will speak any more against using the utmost force and firmness in terms of paying taxes in accordance with laws and regulations and not letting it go away. However, we also need to keep our eyes on the streets of the system and the ability of the unoccupied parties who want to avoid contributing to the tax march. For the discussion, it has been noted that there has been a clear distinction between lawbreakers and all the rest. V.E.G. There's been a little bit of a financial minister in that group. But we also have to take it to further see how we want the tax and the laws, wood laws, tools, and tools to prevent future access to income, property, and money from coming out of the country, thus avoiding Icelandic tax returns. It may not be that only the implementation of unchanged or relatively unchanged rules will be successful. Then we political leaders must review the laws from these political paraphernalia because the tax office, the taxpayer, and the taxpayer are, of course, under current law, and may not be able to handle it even if it shows that there are holes in it and that funds escape from taxes on that subject. The project must be a general prevention of tax reforms, not just tax laws that need to be discussed, but tax practices, so tax reforms in Iceland will bring all the rights and income to our taxes. Then we have entered the gray field of the tax march. That means not only taking that matter seriously but also taking a thorough look at it. Yes, there are improvements in this case that, of course, pay a fine price, such as extending both postwar sources for ten years and increasing the rate of nomadicity for ten years as well. That's a good price. It is also fine to see that here, to further strengthen the setting around the CFC rules, which are relatively effective in these products and were put in the way of the previous government after a long voiding space where nothing had really been done in Iceland, and we quickly withdrew from nearby countries in regard to applying our taxation authority and legislation authority to keep up with the centers that had been left in Iceland. So I'm saying it takes more to do what I think. In some cases, my judgment must be fixed on what is under the bill, but it must also be considered as to whether there are holes. Is there still a channel where income, profits, and possessions escape taxation in a legal way in the grey area of the tax industry? That is also the subject. I don't think it's taken too much here. Why has this arrangement, this repugnant attitude, my attitude toward, and the use of grass, especially during the last 15 to 4:30 years in the Western world, and not just in it, but throughout the world, as annoying as it really is? Then I mean the whole thing, not just a question of what is legal or illegal, but immoral. First, it has become very clear to us Icelanders in this regard. It will be so in Iceland and elsewhere that only the strong and the lawyers who have lawyers behind them can consult banks for advice and have large sums of money to take advantage of such resources. There are privileged odds in every country who escape from carrying their normal parts of the burden through such a channel. It's not Jón and Gunna. There are two nations. Second of all, it's repetitious. It's about as productive as anything, some part of them may have the best circumstances to contribute so much to them. Is that not true of some who have taken advantage of these things in recent years or even decades, by hiding, e.g. An emissary fee and part of payment on foreign goods or services never return it to Iceland, but keeps it in bills outside, so that she planned to grow old in Iceland, Mrs. President, using health care in Iceland later years? I wonder if they had their children here at school, enjoying all the public service in the country. They just didn't want to pay for it, not quite, not just a little bit, maybe have a maid response, include a maid's salary for years, and hide her profits abroad. Third, a country such as Iceland, which hopefully remains a reasonable agreement to be a non-human welfare community, to view this as a very special threat to the ideologies and to the basis of the social organization we want here, that we combine to have a powerful, public service, a common financial system, education, public security, health insurance, and so forth. It is particularly important for a country with our national organization, where we may want to be and remain part of the Norwegian family of welfare communities, to view this as a very special threat. Fourth, the discrepancies. It's like a whisk. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, correctly and correctly came in, just one of the main roads of creating a division in the lands. On top of wealth, more wealth is loaded, and if not even the normal income is obtained, it grows faster and more quickly breaks apart. That's what's happened in the Western world where 1% owns more than 99% and 10% in Iceland owns two thirds of the assets or what they are. That's the situation, it's getting worse fast. It's coming apart again now, I'm telling you. Finally, this is so much so mixed with the most disgusting things we face in today's communities that it is half that it is enough. The low taxes and the coverts there are for the profit of organized crime. It's the course for the money-studded crap. This is the channel where developing countries are polluted with corrupt authorities. Africa's wealth soars from Africa through corrupt rulers into low taxes. Everybody knows this. Though we feel this bloody thing here and flow our blood to duty, potentially world champions in this sport, we are still and despite this reasonably wealthy nation. It is not that the common people on the streets are starving with large amounts of hunger or are not allowed access to drinking water, as is the case in some of the world's most vulnerable areas. The situation is evidently that the small amount of national property that still exists is gathered on a few hands of corrupt authorities, rulers who take it directly to a tax standard. This story may be the bloodiest when it is examined and read with evolutionary glasses. I think it's the highest performance. Secretary of finance - he only reads it during the season, since he needs to be on the phone while we talk about it - in terms of the thin self-finishing not. It doesn't mean to try to tell me that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has not been able to correct the small part of a well-published bill that was here on the agenda of the winter of 2013-2014, and the economic and commercial committees went well, received reviews of which called out, and stopped at some unpublished point, which was primarily about the precise definition of interest criteria, and the rest of the question, that the Ministry of finance is unable to complete it in three years. I know the Ministry of finance, and I know how powerful people there are. There's something strange about the fact that this has not been accomplished at this time that I would have thought with the financial Ministry specialists, even with the help of those men on a special committee who were preparing the case and set out in our time, that they should have been able to complete in two, three months. It's been two years since the Top of the World. In the spring of 2014, the secretary of finance was assigned to complete this work over the summer and submit the results to the Economic and Business Committee. In other words, it was clear and unanimous that we wanted to set these rules. There are some tools and technical details that need to be considered further. In fact, they came to a conclusion, agreeing with the Commission on the choice between two different approaches, which exist in general on these topics and only after settling these technical issues. V.E.G. Secretary of finance must do better, I agree. Is it not simply possible to take the bill that is now available for the council, and is improved for reviews and tips, and, in my opinion, almost complete, and, taking it over, taking it as a change? I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance when he may be listening and responding: Does he object that a financial and business committee will only take the case back if it was not enough for him to complete the small things he was given? I'd be the highest. The financial minister of a college student who did this in his homework wouldn't get a high grade. In general, it is not good to be unable to return homework in two years, especially in such a relatively simple manner. Iceland as a world champion of the awesome sport of developing societies and having to go behind the scenes in dematerialities must take it seriously, for their own sake and for the rest of the world. We are in horrible light and have been in these last few weeks. It sucks being in contact with foreign friends and in a way that usually asks the curious question: How is it with you and Icelanders? And weep over the fact that this has had to happen so soon after the world - famous collapse that, unfortunately, put us on the map. We are to examine these matters and do all we can to prove and show ourselves and the world that we are not going to be offered. Finally, Madam President, it's important here. If it's to be and to succeed in making significant contributions, because no one's talking about it being realistic to eliminate them, which, of course, will not happen until the next season from this, is even more important that we have done the law, since these roads will be improved again from the economy for those who continue to try to pursue this sport. It will be less effective to limit the self - capital movement. We'll have less perspective on it when it's taken to someone else and clear. It is very important to go through this thoroughly and bring it to an end, and preferably try to row for each distance so that to the extent that the currency head of space is here on the coming loss, this law will be completed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u47	V.E.G. President. We here discuss a bill to legalize government treatments against tax fraud. The bill we deal with here suggests some changes in tax laws to counteract tax fraud because of holding on to under taxes. I'm glad to hear it. A government awaits and responds. It was, I think, conscious of the situation and the need to eliminate it, but all grew up with the information leaks of the Panamas, where there is discrimination and injustice. It may be said that it unmistakably exposed what was known and had to some extent been fought to the point, both in the international and in Iceland. The Icelandic government has participated in international cooperation in informing and removing such activities, but certainly not with sufficient weight so far. The subject and subject have indeed taken another form to the reality revealed in the information revealed by the Panama Documents. It can be said that the reaction has been strong, not just in the community, not just here in Iceland, but in the international field. We also see in the bill that the government, the Supreme Ruler. Government, are responding firmly. There are many excellent suggestions in the bill, and all you can say is that it supports that policy and measures that have surfaced to our maximum response. Governments in the last few weeks. When I talk about how the government and the council responded, you can think back to the question. The Economic and Business Committee discussed this subject and began by proclaiming to them those involved. Official tax managers and tax investigators and members from the F.O. and Federal Bank came to meet each other. Economic and business committees; they were meeting with the media and were very useful. As a result, why? They are listed as memos from an established tax investigator, a federal tax manager, a sectoral organisation, and a financial organization. The main objective of that course. The committee was to collect the information on the business of such partners in the tax industry in order to draw out the legal adjustments needed to support the activities of partners in taxes; jurisdictions where partners can work and operate in order to avoid paying taxes to society or paying taxes below taxes. This discussion stated that it is primarily the secret to the existence of these associates and to this business. As the name indicates, it is difficult and almost impossible to get information on real property and to get information about the business, income, expenses, and survival. In this way, we miss out on tax returns, and it undermines the structure of our services and welfare that we need. In spite of all of this, nothing has been done and knowledge of the social problems and injustice has always been there. Therefore, I welcome a bill in which this social injustice is actually being handled in Icelandic legislation. Hv. Senators Össur Skarphéðinsson and Steingrímur J. Sigfússon may have been struggling with these matters, their speeches could be heard. Think of the state taxpayer's words at a meeting. The Economic and Business Committee said that he was like the cryer in the desert. That's how you feel about the discussion. There is knowledge, consciousness that needs to be handled, but not enough weight in it so far. The revolutionary change in viewpoint affected by the information leak of Panama documents is very positive, if you look at it that way. You can sense, in this discussion and in the present bill, and we're talking about that here, not only here in Iceland, but international, change of attitude, a meaningful change of mentality, in this area. That's good, and that's why I wanted to get involved in this discussion, Madam President. I mentioned it here that despite everything, there's been a lot of work to do. If there is success in removing these activities, then international cooperation is obviously important in increasing transparency. We've been here for international cooperation. For example, information exchange agreements have been made at the OECD scene or the National Economic and Development Organization, a contract made by Iceland. But it has been slowly and in part expressed in that although several countries have not yet met the conditions and requirements of these agreements. At least it's gone very slowly. There has been a famine in the North, and since 2006 Iceland has been involved in a coordinated operation at that level. It is obvious in these circumstances that there will be an increase in international cooperation. This is happening both at the OECD field and at the European level. For example, there has been a special field of communication to increase light and information exchange, and there is evidence of these emphasis on the global scene. However, as this bill is being suggested, it is equally important to sharpen the lines of national legislation. It is designed to eliminate this activity and to prevent people in general from forming with such associates in order to avoid paying taxes and duties to the community. That's the point. Not to be overlooked is the fact that the Council provided funds to buy money from abroad. These data are processed by an established tax investigator and the government taxpayer's office. At the same time, they can provide clues about the scope and help to shed light on the nature of the problem in order to establish laws against persons who may have gone against the law. Work hard. The report and a summary of the subject was published by the Economic and Business Committee and, especially, the proposed changes included in the indications contained in the above notes. Many of these suggestions go to this bill, and there's gonna be a reason. The Economic and Business Committee is to review them thoroughly. In addition, there are excellent suggestions that came here for the council, one from the left to the green; it was a fairly detailed suggestion, and it was aimed at trying to assess the scope and impact on the Icelandic economy and to improve legislation on such activities. Most of the proposals may be said to have occurred in the highest response. Governments, including the order of an Outfit. Then there was another proposal from the United States to use the countries that provide such shelter, low taxes, international commerce. It is well possible, since international partnerships are created for such measures, to share in a joint effort in this matter. But as the tone was in the discussion of that suggestion, I think it would generally happen with such measures. It is important, then, that measures be taken to control the problem and be able to identify it. V.E.G. A government has, as I said, established a team of working men who have that assignment. The discussion has been a truly good and strong agreement to take action in these matters and to continue working hard on them. As shown in the case of the highest. Minister, it's these many things, whoever I haven't thought very much but the highest. A minister did well in his career. There is no reason to believe that this will be the case with full solidarity. The Economic and Business Committee is taking care of these suggestions in order to achieve them and to make sure that such changes will be fully met. Regarding the factor presented in the case of the man. paritaprevir The left green, including the right. paritaprevir Katrín and Jakobsdóttir's daughter. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son, which is to the thin of self-importation, this has been a matter of a matter, though it has been a matter of a matter. The Economic and Business Committee is linked to this issue and to the international work of companies across countries. I have no doubt that the committee will take that matter to some extent in connection with this matter. I think that's appropriate. But that would be, I agree with who. Councilmen, it's interesting to hear an opinion of the highest order. Minister on how the committee has access to this matter. When I say so, I welcome this bill and the solidarity that appears in the talks of those who have spoken and expressed themselves on the subject today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u48	Madam President. Hv. One senator put it so that the word would have a revolutionary change of attitude toward exposé and the tax issues that would be handled by the Panama papers. He is absolutely right. But we also know that revolutionism is usually short. Today, a window is set to use the solidarity to change the situation. Right away. The senator was naturally defending and boasting about the government's actions in these matters, which I think nothing unnatural, was all that was red threaded through many things to do. Yes, working groups were to be set up to see the matter. But, hey. A senator knows from his previous life that when people stand in a death - dealing spot for an open field, they do not set up a working group to wonder how to score the target. They're just going for it. It just so happens, as noted in the case of a man. A senator, a financial and business committee has done some serious research. We know from her work what the bill is missing. So why can't we go about accepting the bill as soon as possible with the changes the committee can produce from the current job? First of all, it's a attitude and a comment from me about what's happened. Senator. Hv. A senator believes that there are many good things being done, and he is sincerely thinking that he should try to eliminate the activities involved in using the tax system in which countries such as Iceland cannot get information about possession and management. Then I'll ask why. Senator: Why don't we take the step to the full, listen to what ESAs were directed at, and forbidding Icelanders to own accounts in areas where the government cannot verify the information? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u49	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for his inquiry. First, I'd like to say about the staff as the highest level. The minister and the government ordered that as soon as we act in the legislation to correct, as it is said, and to prevent the establishment of companies in the tax industry to conceal information for different purposes - I do not give myself that in all cases - it is important to work with an tax investigator, a taxpayer and the authorities and experts who maintain surveillance and work on these matters. In my speech, I mentioned that there have been purchased data from the equipped personnel that this working group is supposed to cooperate with the offices to find out what the problem is. What the problem is. It has been observed e.g. In speeches and in the state taxpayer's paper that there's a tax cut of nearly 80 billion dollars here. How much of this has to do with the activities of an African society? How much impact does this activity have on the Icelandic economy? How much we miss our tax system in order to live up to our welfare systems, as it were. In his speech, which is under the control of society, was a member of the council especially involved? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u50	Madam President. I'm afraid I will. A senator has become too trained to be a senator. I asked him a simple question. He shot off from answering her. I ask him again: Does he believe that the Icelanders will be forbidden to have accounts on the taxes of countries where the government's management in that state is in such a way that the government cannot verify information about property, business, and pay taxes? Does he support it? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u51	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquire later on, the answer. After learning here on a political hearing, I would have said that it was not just time to answer that question. But I knew I would have an answer later. A senator and he wouldn't let me get away with not answering that question, i.e. the core question that came at the end of the previous answer. I think that's what we're talking about. The committee will conclude: Is it possible to go so far as to forbid such societies? That this is actually done on the grounds that countries that do not agree to pass information - whether it is simply not possible to rule out a definition against an alien society in such countries. But I think it will always depend on some definition, and it will be done in international cooperation if we're going to put it to the test to stop such organizations from forming. Yes, I am very positive to go so far if you can define it clearly and there is an international agreement on such measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u52	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson's deposit. There's two things I want to talk to you about. A senator. First of all, the question was: A senator for the bill sent to the Government in the spring of 2014 for the thin self-finishing process. It is now in a revised picture, as I did in my talk. I want to ask you why. In view of the fact that the transnational will of the council has been emphasized by the trial adopted two years ago, whether it will be allowed to measure for the revised design of the bill before an assembly is suspended or that a financial and business committee will simply take up the matter and carry it out, this is how it will be completed. So whether he sees any obstacles in view of the fact that the committee has declared his will on the case and the bill has been revised from the sources received. It is meaningless to me who exactly makes the case, just that we get these rules that we really are far behind other nations coming in. The other one I'd like to say at what time. A member of Congress was discussing the proposal made by a group of councils left-greens on a research on the scope of their relative, pointing out that the government had already decided to appoint groups to consider this matter. However, in view of the magnitude of this case, I still believe that the council will take a clear view of the precise procedure. It is not the same that the administration at any given time involves groups of work or members of the council agree on the committee of independent experts, as our proposal went on. There's this proposal at the council at the Board of Directors and Control Committee. I want to ask you why. A member of Congress does not consider him to be a reason for us to finish the motion so that the General will review the investigation of the case in order to ensure the very best reconciliation for the future on these important issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The wife of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir questions her. For this matter, the thin self-sustaining thing, which was for the treatment of the penis. The Economic and Business Committee was decided to refer to the highest level. Minister, I don't see a point, so I'm not going to take up a discussion about it and how we're going to do it. If we want further solutions and can take some steps in that regard, I don't see the need to take the matter into consideration. The Economic and Business Committee. Hv. You see, the committee has been very open to handling very many matters, as the example of this case shows how bad it is. A financial and business committee responded following the hearing of the Panama leak and the documents, calling out members for their meeting and presenting information and presenting it in a resolution and report. So I don't see any resistance. In my speech, I said that I would love to hear the highest opinion. It belongs to a minister when he begins the discussion at the end. For a study of the extent and nature of the tax industry and of the affiliation and whether it is in the field of the Commission or the Generals, I think it's okay for a service team to be held at the highest level. The minister appointed them to work with an tax investigator and a government tax manager, and we can then evaluate the information that follows whether we take this further and enter the Generals area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u54	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for honest answers. I will take advantage of the support that he revealed to me to consider the case at any given moment. The Economic and Business Committee and the Committee could then request the Ministry's response to the revised bill. I'm also excited to hear what's at the top. The minister will say about this in his final speech on this matter. As for the NTSB, I want to reiterate that I think it is most desirable for the council to agree on how to handle these matters. In view of the way this situation all goes, it's been an Icelandic society, but what? Parliaments have reviewed these large protests and exposures that became tangible to the Icelandic public in a way that we saw in the spring months, I would have considered it ideal for us to form a certain cross - political convergence on how we were going to be involved in such an investigation and to look forward to the future. Therefore, I'm sorry if the company is going to try to take this case to heart, for then we will not be able to build up the confidence we have to do in order to handle these matters for a long time. So I reiterate the view that the Council needs to consider how they will build their trust in the community, which should be of concern to all of us who work here, and how the Council of the Council is going to handle this matter. One factor in this might be to try to create some agreement on how we handle such large issues that arise and are difficult, but it should still be flat, depending on how people have spoken in a Senate hall to find some agreement on how we are going to deal with them. I would have thought it was a good step for the General, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u55	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Later, Jakobsdóttir Katrín's daughter answers about the same research question. I may not have been able to give a complete answer in my previous reply to the Council rather than to the Commission, which would indicate why. A senator in the highest group. The government has appointed and the highest. Minister. I'm glad that the group was appointed and was in the spirit of the church arrangement that left greens for the council I was very impressed with because it was a goal, and I think we need to figure out the scope of this problem and the impact on our economy. Of course, the use of the new law on the Algiene research committees is that we take such research in more progressive ways and keep costs to a minimum. Therefore, I think there is an opportunity to see what goes on with the work of the group and cooperation with the government tax president and the tax investigator so that this information can be used if the council decides. I think that discussion must still be done, i.e. The council must decide at any time whether this investigation should be conducted by the council. Then I think it is very good in the cooperation that will be between the staff and the tax reforms, as foretold for the work group, that the information presented there may be new, if it seems to be necessary to take the matter further and that further investigation is required by the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u56	A respectable president. In particular, I rejoice that this matter has come on schedule, and I want to give the highest commendation. Secretary of finance for responding to the reports that occurred when all these data were available. I had planned to cover the matter briefly, but I realize that the committee will be very comfortable with it. However, I would like to direct it to the Economic and Business Committee immediately to see if there is any basis for going beyond the bill. V.E.G. As a minister of finance put it in his speech, I was going very far, but he did not consider the basis for banning this entirely and setting this ultimate limit. I think it should be taken seriously if it's not right to do such a thing. The bill suggests changes in tax laws to cover tax fraud because of ownership in low taxes. For example, there is a discussion of the limitations in the use of low-taxing partners, limitation of cross-border fusion and exchange, further explanations of the CFC Convention, which deals with the taxation of direct and indirect property of partners, funds or households in low tax countries. As a consideration, there is a wealth of information related to financial institutions, which you now feel are basically corrosive in all of this, as well as lawyers; a longer warrant for re-evaluation of taxes, an increase in risk management and increased analysis work. It is suggested that the head of the state fund become better informed to obtain information in order to identify a risk sooner than that. Then, in this bill, there are some changes in customs law, including the authority's access to the processing and media of personal information. They have wondered if there is any basis for further action, whether tax fraud can be prevented, and it can be considered in a larger context. I understood a word of the highest degree. A secretary of finance felt that he would have to do that work on future losses. I rejoice at those words, and will agree with them, and I think it is very important that the Council begin. The subject of the bill is information that has revealed about Iceland's property in taxes and possible tax relics. How positive it is to see this immediate and direct response from the government of the United States! Of course it is, too, as shown in the Sermon on the Mount. Ministers of finance, the secrets of this importance; the fact that property is hidden, and the reason to have it in the Icelandic economy is extremely bad, and everyone agrees that it needs to be changed. By the turn of the century, the tax authorities realized that the number of respondents having authority over foreign legislation registered in low taxes would increase. There was evidence of such changes in the figures. However, it was equally important that in these years, there were treatment issues where search and maintenance data were presented with information indicating that a partner had recorded property in an ethnic area but that there was no record of it. This is the information I have from an article written by Skúli Eggert Þórðarson, the governor of state tax. He points out that a section of retailors who owned such assets fulfilled its legal obligation by explaining the holding of the income that was due, thus paying their tax returns, but most people saw no reason to be able to handle the property that had been placed in the above ways. They may have felt safe with their money in deportations under cover of government interference. Skúli wondered: " Has the release of so many famed people been in need of such cover - ups and whether it was accompanied by commercial gains? He specifically mentions the secret. I think there's the point, hiding possessions. He says that in large companies, secretly, they alone can hardly have normal explanations. No matter how you look, this arrangement said that the tax pay of owners would be long - term or soon either no one or much lower than it would have been. He asks, "Is there any reason to ask about the involvement of the Icelandic financial companies in such planning? " But many of them had a major activity in Europe under the cover of a foreign bank secret that leads, among other things, to Panama and the British Virgin Islands. The system built up by financial companies, with or without appropriate counseling, has proved to be quite extensive, as was shown when a person learned what was being done. He further says that all of this is one way or another, being guided by secrecy. If a person's secret is guided by deception is very short to prevent the truth from being revealed. It is, in fact, of concern, that up to 2008 it was mainly the tax authorities that expressed concern about the development of cases, that this was reported in a financial group on the extent of tax fraud, resulting in a report on their research in 2008. But I'm particularly welcome on this bill - law on these issues, particularly CC reports and other things, it seems, unfortunately, that it is reasonable to explain these regulations. In fact, I would have thought that they should be interpreted according to the words. I was very surprised to learn from the report that the explanation in which the sounds were not applied had not been made. But I don't understand the bill any different, so I'm supposed to change it so that it's clear what's allowed and what's not, and that different interpretations don't work. Whatever the case, even if this is legal, it is a secret in this, unfortunately, something that cannot be avoided. Again, I would like to point to this article, which happened earlier to Skúli Eggert Þórðarson, governor of State and Ingvar J. Rögnvaldsson - I forgot to mention - the vice president of literature together. They rightly say that the system of deceptions is about to collapse as the tiniest gambling city and that the worldwide efforts of the authorities to combat this situation by means of talks, resolutions, and information agreements forced by national authorities to sign have yielded certain results but not sufficiently. The veil was not removed until the interiors of the Offsprings of the land were broken down, and the showthings, the secrecy, and the deceptions, became visible to the inhabited earth. Such information has already been revealed to non - Israelites, many of whom are international attentions. It may be what we have learned, that it is a global national level. Sadly, in the Western world, some people have hardly missed the fact that Iceland was on top of it. That's too bad. It will affect land and nation. This finding was immediately evident after the introduction of this information. They say, Thus, in addition to the highest and best - quality business ventures, the U.S.A. has the highest strength to support the most unlikely people, Iceland seems to aim to place a record in the relative involvement of the national community in the international confusion of the world's population. They also say here: In other words, it is becoming even more clear that Icelandic workers have not been able to hide money and property from Icelandic authorities. They point out that it was not only the tax authorities that were deceived but also the competitive and financial authorities. The establishment of an African society along with its hideters will be made only by means of financial companies or experts in relevant legislation that operates for the owners of the budget. This seems to have been done in an orderly way at all levels, and counseling would not be a problem if authorities began to demand unpleasant information. They are often used in ancient ways. To delay, to flout, even to make the authorities suspicious, and when everyone breaks up threatening government officials. They're saying right here, by permission of a president: ▪ Now the ancient cry has proved that fraud will eventually come, even in an unexpected way. The Panamas have removed the veil from the hideout. Those who claimed to have hidden treasures in the earth in the manner of pirates can no longer expect to sit alone at the gos. I think it would be nice to keep this article in perspective on the work of the Committee. These are men who are on the market, and the discussion is often quoted. I'm sorry the songs were vague or vague, i.e. that they have come up with different interpretations in the speech. Especially am I glad that the secretary of finance is going to handle it specifically in this bill. I reiterate them as to whether they can go further. Whether it is possible and whether it is not right to forbid it altogether. It is simply impossible to defend it in any way when the tax authorities and the governments of the Western world are doing their thing in preventing criminal and drug - trade organizations and human halls from keeping their money in these continents; and, unfortunately, others do so, something very difficult for us Icelanders to accept. Other than that, I wish for a good financial and business committee and I know that the matter will be in good hands with that. paritaprevir And the president of the committee, Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u57	Mr. President. I don't think it's possible to finish the 1st. this bill, without our hearing it. Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee. Everyone here has been overlooked for today's committee to go on a special expedition to wonder what might have to be changed to prevent any misuse of it at any given time. paritaprevir In order to avoid paying what they have for the Icelandic community, Þórhallsson the son of Dírhal called an off country. So I think it's very important to get it to the extent that the bill presented here rhymes with the 19 suggestions that have been informed today that the committee has committed. I think it's fair to us who don't have a place in the economy and business board, but for years we've made this issue matter of our own. So I wondered if this good day would not be paid for by the council if it were possible. A senator and head of the Economic and Business Committee would come up here and let their light shine. It's happened in two years. Residents that they are not at all afraid, well, let's say different fears of expressing their opinion on one of the main points of this discussion. What I'm interested in especially from the members of the board and have asked them all about is whether they think it's possible and right in the position to take a bigger step and simply forbid the Icelanders to have bills in national settlements, to be referred again to recommendations. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son, as there is no way for the Icelandic government to verify information about possession, business, and tax pay. There's a key in this. I think we all agree that it is very important for the Allied Congress to take the step to regain the trust that was lost at the release of the Panama Documents. In the bill we have here for the 1st. I think it's been observed by everyone who's said that most of the time it's a step in the right direction. But gradually I think that the bill may not have gone far enough. Granted, some factors are addressed that have shown that they are not good enough. An example is that the CC rules are being changed. These rules were given during the last term. That was a good time. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who was ahead of it. Experience has shown that it could have been better. This was the first time that a law of that kind was introduced, and it is possible that we are walking much further and that we can avoid being blown off by giving the right information. Also, this bill has been extending the expiration time of the alleged crimes, both in terms of the time of failure and in the context of the guilt. All of this is good and positive, but it does not change the fact that three or four countries, according to the tax investigator's information at a joint meeting with the government's body, which does not meet the rules and criteria of OECD. There is still some state where the government cannot test whether information is correct as the owners of an African society there provide. Is it not true, then, that these dens of the land are used in this way to rob an Icelandic society of taxpayers, so that we may underline this leak and join in making laws as a home to the highest degree? The secretary of finance to establish regulations that in certain countries that do not meet these regulations and regulations, such accounts must not be owned by the Icelanders? That's not a new idea. She's been on the floor for years. She's been up many times after she showed up, like a snooze. paritaprevir In the late 1900's, Þórhallsson traced that there are a considerable number of Icelanders who own accounts in such places. At least there is a strong suspicion that has grown much stronger since the release of the Panamas that people use these accounts for conscious purposes to avoid paying taxes and obligations to the Icelandic community. By making such rules, we are prepared to agree. If so, it is simply impossible to avoid paying in such a way that the Icelandic government cannot, according to the power of information agreements and the average number of persons available to them through research. That's very important. That's why I welcome the declaration as hell. paritaprevir At the end of his talk, Þórhallsson's son's pause led me to feel that I did not feel the need to follow through, for he said that he was one of those who wanted to make a very careful examination of whether it was possible. That's what it said. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Thor Thor Þórsson. He said that they need to be examined and done in cooperation with other nations. Regarding the latter part of that statement, I see no need to do it in cooperation with other nations. If no one else wants to take the initiative, Icelanders will simply do so and show other nations what they can do. But they may, for example, be taking the lead in other nations. President of France, have declared that it is a well - intentioned government in that land to do just this. I think that's very important. I also believe it is important that we do all we can to get to the level of this operation, i.e. how much tax charge is through this point. It's obviously very difficult. Hv. Councilmen of the left green have suggested a suggestion to achieve this. Me and I think everyone in the government has given me support. Yes, it has been shown in the highest case. Secretary of finance, as well. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor, not to set down a group to do this work. But is it certain that such a group simply has legal authority to dig deeply into that information? In order to get them, I guess you need to break the bank's integrity. There is a need to cross all sorts of barriers, such as law. of personal protection presented today. I wondered if there could be only one person who could do this and have sufficient authority, there would be an AWICI committee in the strength of the bill that I believe was finally approved a few days ago. It is quite clear, on the basis of this bill, that the person on the side of the administrative and monitoring committee and the chairman of the Council would be assigned to do such a study, had almost unlimited authority to enter a private company, a bank, and any person to obtain information, provided that it will never be presented in a personal way. As a result, I believe that the Economic and Business Committee should consider this possibility. I also believe that a board of directors and board members should discuss whether or not a task is needed to direct it to the President of the Council that such a committee should be set up. With the new requirements for research committees, it is quite well encouraged to the president of the council, with counseling from the council institutions, i.e. An agent and State Accounting, can give up the subject of such a committee as narrow and as broad as he wants. Therefore, I believe that this is not one of the tools we can use at the council, and maybe the only device we can use, to win this information. That's very important. Some statements have been made that do not seem to be the highest level. There was nothing surprising to the secretary of finance, but I was surprised to learn that the scope is far beyond what was previously understood. There was much news for me when one of the most successful members of the Parliament in the area of finance and financial law informed me during the days that he believed that the information that had been presented through the patriarchal leak was just a fraction of the case. I heard the highest. A financial minister agrees with this by stressing that there was only one legal office and that there were no doubt much more. What was food? paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson's son, the vice president of the budget board, on that? Yes, he said he believed that what had happened in the Panama Documents was 5%. Well, there's, like, 600 to 1200 people, I understand. So we can see from what if it happened. paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson is right, these may be more than tens of thousands, even more. This is evidently a vast, wide recording area that needs to be examined. A review was made. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son earlier came from the late 1900's when Icelandic departments discovered, in effect, by hand, as I learned of a lack of reading. Senator, how widespread this problem was. The house - to - house testing process came to the fore. Then came the information as a secondary product of what was being considered. It was then that these departments realized that there was a major problem. The same has now been true in other nations. I want to end up stressing what I've done to my emphasis on all this discussion and continuing for years, that it is necessary to forbid Icelanders to have accounts in national cities in countries that are not prepared to establish laws that will ensure that we can get confirmation of information given to the owners of the accounts. The argument against this was always the same. They said, "It's not possible. " This can't be done by EU rules. When the Panama Documents were published and a great error occurred in all countries, and the debate came back to this idea here in a way that the prohibition against such accounts could not be done against the EEA, then what is not an example, ESA issued a special statement of its own initiative and declared that there was nothing in the EU rules that would prevent this from being done. That's why I say: Now there's a window open, there's power, and it's very important that the members of the council about this machine go to see if this is the best way to go, the way it is to set rules in the highest law. Secretary of finance is authorized to ban by simple regulations that Iceland has accounts in the countries that do not meet specific requirements. How important that is! Then end: I also think, in view of the suggestion of the left greens to map the extent of this problem, that a monitoring and management committee should consider carefully whether the best way to do this is not to install a special research committee to do that job. Such a committee would have the resources needed to get all the information that could cause us to map this problem as we need.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a brilliant speech and fine points. I listened attentively, I've been in the discussion all day, and I've taken notes on a number of subjects. There was a direct question to me, I wish to believe, and I come up to answer it. Of course, I believe it is technical to forbid the Icelanders from abroad or from bank accounts that are behind walls and walls, and so on, but the project may be wrapped up for us. For example, it has been suggested that although such bans could be used against prominent African countries, British Virgins, or something like that, it would be harder to use such bans against EFTA countries, many of whom are known tax waters, states such as Luxembourg, Malta, Liechtenstein, which are not a very effective source of information to us and have been complained about it. Then I'd like to ask the ESAs, who were so diligent in expressing themselves that there was no situation here if it was forbidden that the Icelanders had a business in Luxembourg. What does that count? A senator coming out of it? Of course, I think we should look at all the possibilities in this and take it quite seriously. For the treatment of this bill that the committee receives, we will, of course, find out what the goal of doing this is. These routes may be rare in some cases, but clearly it cannot be excluded that it may be difficult to forbid Icelanders to possess property in the tax documents that the Taxes Justice Network organization considers to be one of the world's greatest boasts, which are Switzerland, the United States, Hong Kong, and Germany.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u59	Mr. President. What I was mostly complaining about at the moment. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson is that he thunders in his seat and instead of keeping it in the open, eloquent speech that even reveals. Me and others. Hv. A senator is one of our experts in these matters. He says he's sitting in his seat taking notes. I'll sit in my office and wait for his tip and they won't come. As a result of the idea that I am most interested in in in this matter, it is simply that the tax investigator informed me at a meeting with the government council's council that there was a conflict in information delivery, e.g. From British Virgin Islands and so-called tax reform countries in the EEA region. She said it was simply impossible to verify certain information that came from the authorities, for example. British Virgin Islands because the authorities made it so that they simply did not make any rules. There would be no rules and no laws to the authorities there or others there who would have financial residences to send out any information. The situation would be different in lands that are fierce. A senator mentioned. Then you should think back to yourself. A senator whom he knows far better than I do, that the last 10, 12 years have been a tremendous pressure on the kingdoms he mentioned, some of which have answered. It's quite different today from Liechtenstein and Switzerland, I don't know, Luxembourg, but it was 10 to 12 years ago. So, at least they're developing in the right direction. Why? Because men like oar. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson is ready to accept them if necessary. So we should keep going. The kind of decision I'm talking about is an example and likely to give us the interview in order to demand that other countries in the EEA act the same way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u60	A respectable president. I think we agree a lot, me and what. A senator, about the importance of preventing misuse of taxes and low taxes and the secrets it offers. There's a lot we can do about it. Like what? A senator remembers a recent report of 19 tips received by a financial and business committee that she wanted to make up and submit. The committee also received very interesting memos and envelopes that I think can be accessed at the Generals' Web site. Today, we'll talk to a bill of the highest order. Financial and economic ministers and I didn't want to extend the discussion by reviewing the report that came from the Committee for that reason, but there are certainly a number of factors in which we deal with what is presented in the Prime Minister's bill and we're discussing today, and that's good. The committee will, of course, look into this and get a presentation in the language now for the summer and the careful discussion on it and see if there are any ways in which this can be done or applied and all the tips I have heard today are relevant in this regard. One of the points presented, and the committee concluded that it was important to consider the provision of a thin self - interest, and a minister has announced that such work is being carried out. It was also noted that there may be a need to revise double tax agreements, such as Luxembourg, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, and other countries, in order to support information exchanges in these agreements, as well as a number of the same categories. It has also been proclaimed that much more is coming along. There's a working group at work. I trust there will be some bills left that will do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u61	Mr. President. I'm afraid I will. A senator comes to the head of the Committee to so much information that he drowns in them. It is not the easiest thing to get someone with knowledge of the Committee, such as. Yeah. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, to win this thing and bring a bill, he knows what it is. Let's use that window. I know that such a window, which stands in this case in more than half of the port, will be gone again fairly quickly. I noticed why. One senator said that much of the details of the bill are consistent with the 19 suggestions presented by the Committee. I would have liked to listen to what. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigrundjónsson explains it a little bit better. That's why I've been hanging around today, waiting for that. A senator came and tore it, because I believe with him as my executive representative on the committee, I'm pretty well off. But I also feel that I am required that he lead me from his work and wisdom. When we discuss this with 1st. that is the nature of the explanation, and it would help me and other members of the council who are deeply involved in the discussion to know the harmony between this bill and the rest of the report. Is e.g. something in the report as a boy. A senator has contributed with his companions, who are not found in this bill? I'd find some pleasure, but maybe nausea, to know if it is. I'll take the will for the job, but I'll tell you, naturally, that I'm never used to it when I'm a dog with a performance. paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u62	A respectable president. I'm coming up, but I'm not here to compare an investigation into the Economic and Business Report with the highest bill. Minister. I don't think it's time. The report of the committee included 19 points and tips received by the Committee. It is true that they are not all understood in this bill. There are, however, a few more, I think, that go further and there are new ideas that aren't based on the indications we've received and you're celebrating it. There are 11 points in this bill, and it all looks like they're in the right direction. I welcome them all, and I think they're all here to achieve the objective results, to make it more inaccessible and harder to take advantage of this mystery, and ways to avoid paying taxes where the value really comes into existence. It's an international problem, and I agree with those who have said that Iceland needs to be very early and lead in all international cooperation. It is with a collective effort that the victory will finally win. There are many who benefit directly from not participating, so they will be reluctant to cooperate, and it may take years to move the last one to join the ranks. Meanwhile, we have the choice to set a good example, that Iceland sets a good example. It seems to me that a lot of what is being introduced here is that it will not work on its own, but it sets a good example. I think there are a lot of the same things we can do. They're close to a report by the Economic and Business Committee. I don't think it's time to decide if the current working group has already turned down a few of its indications. I think it may well be that these are being developed, and maybe they are more complicated and more complex than what we have in front of us. The minister says that even the bill will be submitted at the beginning when the council regroups after permission, and then we'll see again the bill that deals with other factors. I think it's a constant battle. I don't think there's a definitive solution to this. It may be that a ban on having in such associates would be effective and would scare many away from going that way. It may not be as hard as it would be, they would look for ways to pass it and avoid paying taxes and sharing in building up the welfare community that we members of the Parliament all agree on the need to be there. I'm not going to extend the discussion very much. I'm gonna say, which is that, on the committee, we're gonna get a presentation on this on the first chance, probably at the next meeting or the next one. We're going to get the Ministry to go down to the bottom of this. We will then be able to talk to them about how different jobs aim and so on, and then you can only start to think about how effective these actions are, what are most important and what else is on the way. I'm not gonna keep this any further here for now. I'm glad this bill's out. The committee will, of course, work very hard on this matter as well as on others.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u63	A respectable president. Thank you for calling attention to the performance of this fine district of conversation that is very important. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson, the son of Siglejo, for granting us a chance to have a place with him on this matter and because of thanks. þm. Össur's nurse in general for his existence here, which is usually beneficial. [[Up front.]] [[For the record, just for real.]] Yeah, right. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson. I have mentioned the subject of a talk and an answer to the highest degree. Minister of the fact that the Economic and Business Committee supplied a bill that I, along with other causes. Councilmen proposed the 2013 2013 yeartext for a so - called thin autopilot. Then the commission suggested that this case be referred to the government approved at the General Assembly and referred to the government in the spring of 2014. There, a transnational conspiracy reflected that it was important to address what has been called the tax code of international enterprises and that has been discussed in the media since then. In a report from what? This is referred to as one of the events that need to be taken into account. It's been quite a long wait for the government or the highest. The minister has followed the recommendations made by the council in the spring of 2014. So I decided to take that job to revise the bill based on the reports received. The Economic and Business Committee at its time. It has now been submitted again in a revised form. I want to ask you why. The head of the Economic and Business Committee, as I asked why. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson earlier in his discussions today, whether or not to be considered if there is no way to measure the bill I would have chosen to do. The Economic and Business Committee will consider this and give the case itself so that no longer needs to be waited. I agree with my partner. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's attention that there has been room and time and willingness to discuss these important issues and that we should, of course, use that time to make arrangements for the future, for the benefit of public interest in this country. [[The president calls.]] Is that something that's wrong? A senator prepared to examine?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u64	A respectable president. First, I want to emphasize that I was a member of the Committee when she decided to refer to the fine subject of a thin self-finishment to the Ministry, the Government, for further work. We realized that this was a complicated matter that would have to be carefully developed. I've heard the jury's minister tell us that work is going on, but it's twisted and it's gonna take some time. I don't know if it would affect or speed up if the committee again referred the case to the Ministry. All I have to believe is that there is a will in all categories to set this rule. Still, I would like to recall that not long ago, in this council hall a new investment law was adopted. Then, I think, one of the senators said that there was not much demand for money in the companies who were supposed to be drawn here to start here some business, industry, create jobs in the provinces. At that time, I found it difficult to get a sound base in the hall for making a minimum demand for my own money and also a demand for some kind of currency to be predictable, that he was a positive of this operation, that this wasn't some sort of company that came in here, financed himself at the Icelandic bank and did and scourging, and the profit was then taken from the country in the form of interest. I think we need to be very alert in all things. We are just enough hawking away at the council to stop the thin self-finance that is trying to penetrate. I follow this case 100%. I think we need to make rules in this, and we need to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u65	Mr. President. Indeed, it is true that you are right. A senator tells us that we often talk about the basics of counsellors, and that is going to be the greatest time of our lives. Often, there are comments or changes that do not have the time to make a good decision, such as why. A senator mentions. However, in that case I mentioned in an anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - Witness bill, it was a bill that had had a significant opinion on the subject. Economic and business committees, are given detailed material coverages. As I mentioned, I've been under attack to process the reviews, so I'll take the answer. A senator who is at least will discuss this with the committee. The committee could then carry this changed bill under the Ministry of finance. Of course, this is not acceptable. The government, represented by most of the Generals, receives a very clear message from the greater part, that in this case, in my memory, all members of Congress supported the continuation of the government. Although it is certainly important to observe what is happening on a global scale, as we have seen at the highest level. Ministers, a number of countries, our cooperation in OECD, have set up regulations on the use of their own resources. So there is nothing that prevents us from finishing this matter. This is one of the things that clearly identified the economic and business committee meetings. This has been discussed in the media, in the community, and in the media, pointing out that it is a broken pot. I'll be encouraged in light of what I'm going to do. It's important for a senator to pick up this case on a financial and business committee because it's important that we use it, as it were, and try to make the best of it. You're absolutely right, which has happened to you. Parliaments agree that this is an important and practical step, but it is possible to go further, and it is one of the major issues involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u66	A respectable president. I think it's very important that we make rules about the thin self-imbursement. I understand that in the past, negotiations were made with large industrial companies, fortresses, which, in fact, concluded that they won't have to abide by any longer laws of thin self-finance. I think they had the right to negotiate that even if we agreed on a thin self-finance, it wasn't about them. This applies only to enterprises from now on that have not negotiated a discount from the rules. As I understand the thin self-infundance, people do it so that they have a minimum of their own money, they owe their companies very much and take the profits out in the form of interest, because they're divorced. He's a tax deductor. Usually the interest goes into some foreign country or even into the Netherlands and then into Delaware, and no one pays taxes in any place. This is how it's playing with taking the profits from the place where the sum will actually be, moving it into a jurisdiction where taxes are extremely low, and taking some kind of charge from drawer companies. There is nothing else to be done with this than to undermine the welfare communities, to undermine the important things. It's boring that a bit of this is when we set up the walls and say that we're going to make strict rules about our own money, that there's a lot to be decided about, the companies just go somewhere else, and where, what I'm supposed to say, such rules are weaker. Nevertheless, I believe that we should set a good example and concentrate on building valuable companies who are ready to participate in building up society here and in the welfare of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u67	Mr. President. The bitter tears that threw me into the wind over a quiet period of idleness. paritaprevir However, Frosti, the son of Sigurjónsson, was at least 30 years old. so that he would give one of the best talks he has and probably one of the most complex discussions I have long heard about these matters. [[Up front.]] Thank you. A senator for that. Perhaps it would pay for Congress service if I would cry more often in a speech chair for lack of talks from the forwarding company, I don't know. We'll see. At least it was important. A senator came here and gave a very technical answer to my requested memory. Among other things, he revealed that of the 19 suggestions listed in the report of the committee to which he presides, only 11 are found in the bill. True, he added that there were other issues that they had not seen. Well, at least we know that. which are interested in these matters that there is still a considerable basis for improvement. I thought that the 19 points mentioned in the report were worth a lot of money. Then I want to thank you. For a senator to state clearly that it may be important to make rules that forbid Icelanders to own bills or societies on the continent. True, he said that it would likely not be enough to hold those whom he mentioned the most difficult. On the other hand, there is nothing that can be done if you can reach the others and prevent someone, perhaps a large part, from being taken in front of you. We can never create a perfect system, but we can always move toward perfection. It should be the common objective of the United States and the forward party and, indeed, of all of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u68	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Skarphéðinsson For a beautiful word - and deserved one, yes, thank you - and the encouragement to appear more frequently in the Sermon on the Mount. [[Deserved.]] I can make him happy by looking at the fact that I talk more and more as I sit more years. It seems like, as you sit here longer, you talk more. That's what it's all about. But there is a new challenge to talks. I had planned to sit quietly and pay for the discussion, but I couldn't get away with it. Thank you. A senator for encouraging me. I didn't hear any specific question in this counter, and I wanted to come up just to say thank you. A senator for verbal exchange. I think we're all better with this conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u69	A respectable president. I did not have time in my first talk to discuss one of the things I left behind in a talk at the highest. Secretary of finance. He mentioned the need to take harder to handle what is commonly called the social security number. Then I would like to point out that here at council there is a bill for a change in the social law and the law on private components that deal with social security. The first carrier is Karl Garðarsson, but in addition to him, he has a problem. The members of Vigdís Hauksdóttir, Höskuldur Pétursdóttir, Páll Jóhann Gunnarsson, Lára Arnardóttir, Einarsson, Egilsdóttir Egilsdottir, Hjörvar, and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. Thus, it is precipitating to deal with social security issues. I believe that this bill, although short, is very careful and well designed and can, in its simplicity, be a significant match for the social security network that I think the whole world of Congress is ready to agree to be a national ill. Simply put, income lost because of taxes are running at some 80 billion, according to research. That's all we're talking about, in the country, tax collections of employment. 80 billion are virtually the same as we pay interest in the population budgets in one year; these are comparable numbers. These are enormously high numbers. If we could get through this, we could actually get away with paying off the debt of state funds that this government has, in fact, managed very well. We are often talking about the debt of the public, mismanagement of taxes and fees, but also commitments to other privates, suppliers, and others as well as a failure to pay, which may be the most serious part of all, and we have special laws that make it possible if people don't bring in reports of inferior wages and taxes, they can simply be put in prisons. Such behavior is a result of social damage. Worse yet, it may come primarily from those who are honest about their business. That's exactly what we're talking about today, about issues and issues that are supposed to prevent tax evasion, secrecy of capital, we're limited to people being able to own or hide their possessions in foreign societies. But this behavior, as well as what I represent here, fosters a lack of trust in the workplace and the competitiveness of those who follow the rules. It's all the bad stuff. Such behavior increases the cost of business life and the cost of individual life in the country because governments are generally increasing monitoring, and this increases the cost of employment. The bill on social security, and I entered it, is suggested to be moderate, although there will be restrictions on how many members of the same group can have in years. Of course it's okay to go over it. However, it is also an attempt to stop the so - called undertakers'efforts to enter societies when it becomes evident that evil is going and driving them away. This ill, along with what we're dealing with here, is something we have to deal with. Because I heard the highest. In particular, the secretary of finance came on social security, and I thought it best to point out that our bill is there. [[The president calls.]] I think it is designed to be approved at the General Assembly. But I'm glad that this discussion has been taken here because it's a national ill that needs to be eradicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u70	A respectable president. I thank you for a fine discussion that has been arranged in many places. I also thank you for the positive reaction of the case, and they agree that this is at least a number of points previously identified by the Economic and Business Committee and are being responded to the call that we fill the gaps in our legislation. At the same time, I have to say that we have, in the cause of this bill, a fairly broad debate. For example, regarding the social social social social security, it was mainly related to the issue of risk assessment, we're here to suggest that there be a risk assessment, including the possibility of a risk assessment. because of the risk of social security. I'd like to introduce a few of the main points of this matter that I think are important to you. First of all, the discussion has raised questions about why we simply do not use the means to forbid Icelanders to develop partners in low taxes. I've only been able to address the issues today that I think it is most fortunate for us Icelanders to follow the main currents that have been involved in internationally, to work further with other countries on the development of information exchange agreements and to work to eliminate the secrecy. To this end, we have had great success, as we have seen in our discussion for the past few weeks. However, there is still much work to be done there. That work continues under the lead of OECD. Second, we have been able to take back the benefits of setting ourselves up in a low taxes area by saying that, nevertheless, in Iceland, taxpayers are taxed, despite the fact that they've settled down there, that it's like looking through the club. Many of the points in the bill we discuss here are designed to go further into looking through the company. It applies, for example, to the principle of this bill involved in the conceptual use, to look at income rather than only profit as I have contributed, but also to the use of tax losses and the right to transport possessions, etc. We're doing these two things. We are trying to expose our secrets, and we are trying to minimize the benefits of settling in these places. None of this makes any difference that, in any case, those who do not clean up their doors to the tax authorities are always breaking the law. For that reason, in itself I do not feel that it is a reason to go through the forbidden route. The same is true when it comes to providing legal advice on matters like this. My emphasis has primarily turned to removing secrets, taking part in the international fight against money laundering, and getting the tail of tax evasion. But today's discussion has been a little further, saying: Yes, it's good to fight the tax frauds, but we also have to deal with the tax march. From there comes the debate over the thin self-finishing process, following the occurrences of cross-cutting, and after incidents also further ways to reduce the impulse to collect in low taxes, low taxes state. As to that, I'd like to say this: first of all, about term use - it's been a little confused in a general debate. When men speak of a tax march here, I make it known that they are talking about the legal ministration of taxes. We need to be able to discuss the tax profile, the legal limitation of tax payment, in a larger context than just with our societies. We're here in Iceland, for example, with laws in force on the wills of new investors. We have, just three years ago, a law on the agreements of a silica plant in the Northern Parliament, for example. Many other investment agreements are in effect and have been made. I'd like to briefly remind you that in some investment agreements made in recent years, you can find special items that are about to turn to the thin self-finishment or after events and especially, perhaps, the cover-up. Let us not forget, then, that in 2013 we made some special new rules about the cover - up. In today's investment agreements, I am told, in some different way. This is especially true in some places. I'm told that even there are negative regulations in investment agreements that have been made in the past, i.e. that, even if it were legal, the premise on the cross-cutting would be excluded from the contract. We've even gone so far in some cases I've been told without having read each other's agreements. I mentioned a law about coincidences for new investors and individual contracts we've made according to events of the law that we've established on the subject. I don't feel that we can approach the discussion on such broad ground in that way that while we're on our own making contracts to attract here to the country, by means of a discount from taxes and public fees, firms on that basis are being made. That's what I think of it as a twin. Not only can we say we're going to stop all those who are trying to minimize their tax dollars in Iceland but we're going to drag to Iceland all those who want to get discounts on taxes and fees. Then I'm simply saying there's always going to be some competition for taxes and fees, competition for the business environment of an enterprise; even so far as it goes down on some individual professions. For example, do we not have here at the council a bill on providing, for film making, 25 percent reimbursement and moving the ratio from 20 to 25% for the cost in Iceland? [[Up front.]] Aren't we trying to attract companies to Iceland who want to enjoy special favors in this way? Are they in a tax march in their country of origin? Is the international deal being taken care of in this way, by this legal process? [[Up front.]] I'm asking. Well, you can always say that something is different, but it's a 25% discount for the cost that falls on this country. In the case of a law on a silica plant in the Northern Parliament, what were we willing to do in order to arouse a company's interest in bringing it to Iceland? What were we ready to do? First of all, we were ready to give a discount to the company's income tax. We promised a 15% income tax, a lower income tax than any other company, except those that have specifically agreed on it. We paid a last-minute pass from the time it came. The Society is reserved for all the labelable documents produced by the company or established in connection with the development of the investment project. We made a discount on the proportion of property taxes. It should be 50% lower than a legal limit, 50% off property tax. Then there's a lot of public insurance that we've generally agreed to use to support the social security system in Iceland. It's an exception to the insurance fee. There are also other regulations, e.g. that the company should not be charged with environmental expenditures or environmental taxes unless it is being generalised in the country. Not the cost of electricity consumption or emissions of gases or other wastes unless it is under general practice, etc. So maybe the raisin at the end of the hot dog, what made the difference for that company, what led to the finally ready for it, we offered that we would be breaking up from the taxpayers' pocket 3 billion beds to have all these preparatory procedures so they'd probably want to come to Iceland. I just think that it's impossible to bring this up when people talk with great zeal about all the events when companies try to minimize their tax pay on a global business. We ourselves are drawing to the country a business with special favors, and we have been ready to go as far as possible according to government policy for that purpose. This is what I'm saying, and I'd like to specifically say that this is part of the legal limitation of tax pay on international commerce. This has nothing to do with tax fraud. And we need to keep it and that discussion in a special box, because it is absolutely exclusive here that we will not under any circumstances tolerate tax fraud. Under no circumstances will we tolerate human efforts to violate tax laws. And we are determined to use our institutions vigorously to uproot such things. But the tax code is different. It cannot be confined exclusively to organizations that have had activity or possessions in low taxes. Then I'm going to stop at what I've learned in the past that part of the opinion that it is necessary to attack in a particular group of people. This has been observed before. In fact, it is mentioned in this bill. Otherwise, we will continue our international cooperation, which has been very effective and is making great success. I would especially like to mention the tremendous campaign that OECD has undertaken under Angel Gríma's Gurría and the extraordinary success it has produced by many contracts. As a result, I offer assistance to the Ministry on all members of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u71	Mr. President. So much for being on the President's chair at the time of the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance spent quite a long time trying to trace the inquisitors to new investing projects at Boka at Húsavík. I may consider the matter somewhat related, since I was a professional and innovation minister when negotiations were completed with the company and that I cooperated with the then secretary of finance for the payment involved in that investment agreement, so I'm going to go over it a little bit. I think the highest. The secretary of finance just needs to be careful not to fall wrong and not completely compatible, as it is in terms of investment support for new investment projects for an entirely reserved period of ten years, and to make possible investments and structures in new territories and even professional cold areas, as was the case. True, it is true, and it has never been concealed that governments, both government and rural society, had to reach out for that assignment to fulfill it. They were considered justified, including ............................................................................................................................. This could increase the options for the location of small and medium-sized companies, and other reasons could be given to put the Convention on an abundance but in many other cases. V.E.G. Minister selected e.g. not to mention indiscriminate agreements to sources of data that the General changed in their efforts, so Iceland was brought back with them and could not get away with them because ESAs had concluded too far. But that is not in the case of Bakka of Húsavík. The reality is that it was all taken out of the EEA Observation Organization and confirmed that the Icelandic government was well within the scope of support under these circumstances. What is being done in such situations? I'm not particularly impressed with the general lack that there is some auction about how much inquisitive human beings provide new investing projects, but there is a difference between individual and defined support for new employment structure, e.g. getting new industry into the country, and general regulations on the taxation of functional enterprises. I think we can agree on that. It is also international and international competition. What people like PCC on the north or Thorsil, or any other place, in some cases, may be put on the table and have done - and this I know to the highest. Secretary of finance knows - is not just any tax acceptables during the first business years. There are even direct sources of 30◯40% of the target budget for the project. We have not gone into it, and authority has not been given to such ones as the original law on discriminatory agreements was issued. Iceland did not have a lot of money in those years, 2009◯2010, but instead could make room for more support during the building up years and early field years. There is the sky between this approach and the old investment agreements at the highest level. A minister entered in one case. That's right, I can confirm that as the highest. Minister said, I've seen contracts that are such that the companies are forever protected from bringing up a certain taxation. Even if Icelanders decide to pick it up and hold it against everyone else, business contracts are protected from it. Of course, such a thing would be absurd, and there's nothing like it here. This is not a permanent support or variation from a tax policy, as was the case in the case of the first treaties. They may last even decades. No, it is just this temporary support during the building period that covers the first ten years. It is true, of course, that it contains considerable attraction, but it is far within the framework of what Iceland is permitted to do, it has confirmed, and it is still farther within the framework of what Iceland is permitted to do when it is seen to see that the structure is in so - called rural development regions, i.e. areas that are additional to justify being counted on the European so-called based policy map. This is what I wanted to come in here because I think it needs at least a second. to be cautious in this comparison and that there is not necessarily strong evidence in the discussion of how we would like to deal with the debinos and the difficulty of mixing it into the debate on support of innovation, research, evolution or requisition agreements for new investors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u72	Mr. President. First, only on the length of the contract. There is a special law in which it says: although a law of appeals by new investors in Iceland for 13 years from the signing of a contract is permitted, it is permitted to accept a contract for 14 years and never more than 10 years after the development of tax obligations. So it was now made a special law in order to keep it as larger as possible. But the main thing is this. In this discussion, people take the initiative to say: We have to stop a business trying to minimize their tax pay even if it is legitimate because it is the demolition of international commerce. However, these contracts provide examples of exactly the same even if it is temporary. Exactly the same. When we take billions of dollars from taxpayers to prepare the arrival of such companies, we are doing exactly the same. The same is true of other investment agreements mentioned here, but outside the past few years, we have had an arrangement that has, in fact, had to be extended on reimbursement from film making. I'm just trying to keep it up, so people do it because me and Icelanders make use of favors, tax discounts, insurance bills, stamps, the discounts of real estate taxes, and all the silly things when we want to reach our goals. Even if it's for a good purpose, to promote innovation and other such, we're thinking mainly of Icelandic global interests. [[The president calls.]] This enterprise will not then be based on perimeters in other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u73	Mr. President. The current layer of investment agreements remains to be made a significant improvement because it always frames the coincidences within the specified times. That's right. That's what I said. A minister could not go back to the point that when it comes to injuring, it will take over ten years. The range between signing and implementing contracts in the sense that a business is started a little wider there, but it was committed because it was not yet aware of how fast the plans were going, it had no effect on the 10-year period. Whether or not it is three or four years from the contract is signed and until an injury period depends only on the speed of the task. I still believe that it is wise to exercise caution in comparison with the highest degree. Secretary of finance is a little busy for some reason. I think it's interesting. I'm gonna think about it a little bit more. Why is the secretary of finance so eager to risk this discussion that Iceland has its own tax laws, e.g. to reimburse research and development costs for innovation companies? Or indiscriminate agreements because of new investors when we're trying to back up our new job structure and get an investment into the country and create jobs? Or do they repay the cost of film making? Why do we do this? This is not because we are thus writing that we should not pay normal taxes and obligations. This is because we have come to the conclusion that it is economically practical. This is because we are achieving political goals. Of course we have taxing power, and that's how we can do it. If we were going so far in such an activity that we were hurting ourselves, we could start to think about the matter. This is different from what we're dealing with when it comes to permanent business management or permanent replacement or permanent taxation, which often does not go through business, but simply moves the funds away from the fact that there will be an anti-employment process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't back it up that I think it's the highest. A financial minister should think a little bit about before going out of the way of those illustrations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u74	Mr. President. I was behind the deal on Backka. I support further reimbursement on filmmaking in Iceland. I support reimbursement and reductions due to research and development. I like that we have a general law against willies. I have supported every agreement in this subject that has been made at the time I have been at the council. But I don't think that Iceland and I are supposed to take over the ethics of the international business environment. When we find an example where companies who operate here, either in Icelandic property or in foreign property, who have some opportunity to minimize their tax returns, we have to stop it. That's even. our contribution to the moralisation of the international business environment. It's the voice I heard at the council today that we had to stop into such holes for that reason. The reason for this is because I want to keep Iceland and I being participants in a global business environment where people are concerned about our own interests. We have come to the conclusion. A senator mentioned that it served national interest to take these measures, but we are also competing for the funding of other countries. Let us not draw a feather over it. We are in a fierce competition for the funding of other countries. Take, for example, the value of research. We've decided that we're going to allow men to charge research costs in Iceland and thus minimize or reduce their income tax in Iceland because we know that if we don't, the work will leave the country. That's why. We're not doing this on our own. We're doing this because we want to protect our jobs and the business in Iceland. Let's just accept that we are and are in international competition, and it's totally unrealistic for a small Iceland to take on the morale of the international business environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u75	Mr. President. Yet, it is vital that humans be aware of what is being done at any given time and that they have a course. I fully understand that little Iceland will not tolerate the worldwide tax targets and alone bear the full victory over the world that we will eliminate all harmful tax competition. Now I'm very interested in it, and I've been there for a long time and we've been at the highest. Secretary of finance has often been involved in the exchange of words I have called the Northern War, e.g. In general, against a more harmful tax competition, what is called the Norwegian-skadelling tax egression; and is old-known and used as a term and a term in the Norwegian community. However, the voice spoken in such matters matters matters matters. In the case we get to the highest level. The financial and economic secretary discussed reimbursement of research and development costs, reimbursement of movie costs and film-making frameworks and new investment contracts or contracts, Iceland was in all cases far behind local countries and competitive countries to take these measures. It was all around us. We were in the difficult situation of not being able to tell people who might have been interested in coming and investing here that there was something comparable to what was available in Canada, Sweden, Norway, or where it was now. And it's realistic to face it. While there are men in the world, I don't think it's wise to mix them with what we've been discussing mostly to this day. Hadn't said it then, I'd like the world to be that way that it wasn't there at all, just so it wouldn't get misunderstood even though I had that word exchange at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. It would be better for the filmmaking not to have been able to go along with one another, so the rate of remuneration is always on the rise. The men set out with a 101⁄215%, now they've reached 25%. [[The president calls.]] There is, of course, one problem. People are walking on the song. Such indiscretions tend to be more permanent than humans may choose, and the pressure is on them to be cleared. [[The president calls.]] Of course, I do not specifically recommend this as a general future arrangement, even though I allow them to communicate with me at the highest level. I've had a financial and economic minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u76	V.E.G. President. I just want to state the right to an explanation for the transition from a professional committee that comes on 3rd. As some may recall, the matter was addressed to a committee between 2 and 3. encouraged by some changes. The changes are in five teams. The first change is that instead of the words a total income of rent from the property, there should be no more than 2 billion. K. every calendar year, b-joins 1st, par. Come, as says here, by permission of the president, the total income of the rent of the property should be worth no more than the sum laid down in Article 4. Law on Valuable Credits, No. 50/1988How's it going? This change is made to make the amount of $2 billion. K. would take into account the prices that will be in the merit tax laws, and therefore, it does not have to change the amount annually by law. Second, by permission of the President, we say: ▪2. ngr. 10th par. put it this way: Resurrected records are needed each year, and at the end of each calendar year, a party with registered homework should be submitted to the businessman a summary of the days of renting houses as well as rentback information. Source of information according to Article 1 is a requirement for registration of the next calendar year. A informer is authorized to submit information according to the 1st tax authorities. In this regard, it is suggested that people who have such lodgings will keep records of their property and are the sources of the county's authority to send such information to the tax authorities so that tax paying off the money can be observed. Third, a 13th par. It says: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... Of course I am. Added: or for more money than the sum specified in Article 4. legislation on the value tax.How much money do you think you'll need? How Would You Answer? u.r., that in the bill as currently indicated, it is assumed that there is a amount and/or a 90-day rent as defined by homemaking. Instead of these words, over 90 days a year will come: renting longer than 90 days per calendar or for a bigger amount of money than the total number of four. Act of merit taxation. This is a definition that those who rent more money than 2 billion. K. and/or for longer than 90 days are defined as pursuing employment and paying taxes and duties accordingly. Then the law is to come to value on January 1, 2017. Mr. President. I just wanted to account for this change proposal that all the pro board is about. I hope the matter will go on and on at the end of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u77	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a committee program on bill to legalize the law of No. 50/1988, on credit taxes, with subsequent changes, limit of taxes and the budget of the budget. It's from the pro board. The committee has discussed the matter she presented following a discussion in the Committee on bill to legalize the adjustment of the law on restaurants, accommodations, and entertainment. The committee received reviews of the case from the Association of the Tourist Service and Iceland's Business Council. It is estimated that as many as 0.5 billion tax returns to the law, which has not been taken into account by negative returns, i.e. when the tax is over taxed. The committee received information that the seeding of the party was rolling in the range of 01⁄21 billion. K. had been negative in 2015 by 903.4 billion. K. Except for personnel who started business in 2015 and so may be had to be a high priority at the beginning of the business, this category of consumers would be negative by 393.5 million. K. Hv. Senators Björt Ólafsdóttir, and Egilsdóttir Eglílsdóttir, were absent from the case. The committee proposes that the bill be approved and signed. Councilmen Jón Gunnarsson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kristján L. Möller, Jóhann Pálsson and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u78	V.E.G. President. The employment committee transferred a new proposal to law No. 50/1988, for a worthy tax, with subsequent changes, i.e. set limits of tax obligations and the budget of budgets, followed by work at home and restaurants, which are followed below for further discussion on the committee. I'd like to make a subject, a respectable president, and call attention to what's being done here and the data we received from the governor of state after we asked the members of the Committee for it. Of course, we received this information clearly and professionally installed as the government tax manager alone. They confirmed our suspicion of large financial payments to those who have a business of less than 1 billion. K., i.e. differences in taxes and taxation in the cost system. This was confirmed, and I drew attention to the fact that the case contains a package, a review, showing that by 2015 the number of people with 0.941 million is over. K. in business: 8,760. Those who receive reimbursement from a government fund were 1,889. The payers were 2,511. It also showed that more than 4,000 of these had a so - called zero report. The point is that the amount paid on account of this effort was about 170 million. K. But the refunds were 1,074 you. K. In this tax obligation, which was worth 1.5 billion. It is clearly stated in the Commission's opinion that the budget was 903.4 billion. K. Because of this, but it is proper to consider, as the taxpayer is concerned, that there may be persons in investments or perhaps new ones who owe them a great amount of tax against tax, as it were. It was observed by the committee that by raising this amount of money to 2 billion. K. and the bill itself reviews the original amount, 100 yous. A k., which has so increased and is up to 2 billion. K. Now, of course, that amount has not changed in recent years because these limits are not index - related and decrease real value in time as we do. But, in fact, to simplify it, it is a business that is not greater than this, that government funds had saved themselves in 2015 903 million. K. In payment, it would have been said, "Don't use tax or tax tax. " It is proper to keep in mind when discussing this bill and the proposal to raise this goal, so there are some revenues in return when business begins to go well, which has been successful. It's supposed to be the goal. Comprehensive funds mean that the business is successful, and they return to the state's funds a normal part of it, whether in terms of cost or tax. But this is what I wanted to do as soon as I call attention to this review and document from the governor of state tax, which is extremely remarkable to go through because, as it has been shown, it is a payment there. However, it also shows that the number, in the range of 1◯2 billion. K. is a certain number of people, but there is again a difference between 210 million paid for a government fund and a total of 4 billion for all who have it. K. and there are 108 million dollars in payment for the state's funds. This calls to my attention, and I note that the number of people in the lowest million dollars in the world, where these were payments, but I reiterate what I said: there may be an explanation in 2015 for this, although you can actually go into 2014, with a similar amount of 1,200 million. K. It is true to remember that this is, I think, a change that is good, as soon as it simplifys the system, it will also be that it saves the state funds, and hopefully it will be the business that this will pass out on that profitable and good that it will renders that tax or credit to state funds. That may be what's being done, simplifying this for those who have little business. It also needs to be kept in mind: The treasure of the Kingdom often needs money.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u79	A respectable president. I've previously described this in a talk, in discussions about this matter, doubts about the likes of this sort, with reference to competitiveness and the nature of a matter. Away from this process, I feel that it is neither a cause nor a subject to increase their payment for foreign films from the hands of Icelandic taxpayers to whom this bill is expected. That's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u80	A respectable president. I'm glad we're finishing a bill here that will contribute to a change in police education in this country. I think it's one of the greatest advances that will be made in the police today and will greatly enhance it. I look forward to seeing the results of this bill and thanking the Senate and the people who have been so involved in this work. It was just the council that commissioned the Ministry of Internal Affairs to start this work, and now we are completing it. It's supposed to be a celebration.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u81	A respectable president. I vote with this good speech, and I think it's right, because we piranha often talk about the importance of keeping police under control, reminding them that it is important to have a good living for the police and to live in such a way that police officers will experience themselves in grateful work as far as possible. Of course, circumstances do not always allow it. But I welcome the bill, and I expect and hope it will have a very positive effect on police work and on the rest of the city's rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u82	Mr. President. We're going to pay our left green votes here. I agree with that, and I'm glad that it's finally a university student for the police. I want to maintain it, at the end of the case, that I worry about funding and cost, and I don't consider the expense to be sufficient, that there is not enough money to be paid for this new study. I have also had doubts that the security of those who are now at the State Police School is secure, as has already been done, in certain offices. When the special prosecutor became the district attorney, employees were given priority for work. It wasn't passed over here, I'm sorry. But I am glad that the study is going to college and that it is a benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u83	A respectable president. I want to come up here and celebrate because this bill is now becoming a law. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A job board for a very powerful job in this context, huh? I've got a great deal of work to do on this bill. I think that's where we're taking a lot of big steps. We are taking a big step in living in a new reality where the sharing economy is an important factor. We are simplifying our routine and making it easier for people to work and to be in such an environment. We are also generally simplifying this arrangement. I believe that this is where we are taking a big step forward and thank you very much. Name and question. A Senate hearing for the good of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u84	A respectable president. I hereby propose a synopsis of the treatment plan and the disposition of the resources that are reduced from the total amount at this time. 5 mg. Section 8. Law on Fishing Control, No. 116/2006. The General concluded, with reference to 5 mg. Section 8. track No. 116/2006, on the control of fishing, that during 2016/2017, the total volume to be withdrawn from each species should be reduced. 3 mg Section 8. The law says we're gonna have to deal with tragedy at the end of the day. 1st paragraph 1.mg. 10. c., for support of based guidelines 2nd over 1.mg. 10. g., to line up at the bottom. 8 mg. 11th .................... Section 6. a, to fish that are listed at 6. and for other temporary measures under law, as follows: Up to 9,000 tons to coastal fishing; up to 2,000 tons to shrimp and shellback; up to 6,500 tons to support communities; up to 5,700 tons to the market; up to 5,700 tons to line up to a lineup; up to 300 tons for leisure purposes; up to 125 tons to remain on cod; up to 1,000 tons will be put aside for special temporary measures. A report says: No. No. No, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Section 8. the management of fishing management should be done by 5.3% of the permitted total resources for special employment and community care. 5 mg. The same article should be used to protect the amount of resources that are reduced from total resources in order to deal with the event rate. 1st paragraph 1.mg. 10th par. The law, to support the communities at the time. 2nd over 1.mg. 10th par. The law, to the line-up at the end of the line. 8 mg. 1 1. The law, to the beach fishing at the time. Section 6. a law, fishing at the end. Section 6. The law and the other temporary measures under the law. The last legislature no. 15/144, of the treatment plan and of the provision of the resources that are withdrawn from the total set. 5 mg. Section 8. Law on Fishing Control, No. 116/2006. It goes for the fishing year 2015/2016. It is now suggested that the warrants be set aside for a single fishing year. No. 15/144 sources from generalised rural bases were transferred to the building post. This was done in the light of a report by the son of Vífill Karlsson, where it was found that a greater consistent effect could be expected by both measures. The primary objective of the study was that only the sites involved with a specific urbanisation agency, but not observed for the impact of general eutrophication or other employment and community measures elsewhere. Hope is limited to the building site, and more positive values are available to this project and its long - term thoughts. The Marine and Agriculture Minister made a deal with the University of Akureyri and Development Centre for the Analysis of the Biodiversity of the Work and Logies on Fish Control Act. Vífill Karlsson, economist and judge at HA, and Hjalti Jóhannesson, geographer and specialist at RHA, gave the final report on the report on the provision of resources derived from the total resources and its impact on solidity. According to an RHA report, the results of the regression analysis using general mobilization are thought to yield the most structural effect of the extended action, while line integration and coastal fishing are alternate and third place according to the method used, but shell improvements were considered the least to achieve the intended structural effect. The case will continue to be worked on the basis of the reviews taken, but, as stated earlier, it is now proposed for the next fishing year. At this point, it is considered appropriate not to make dramatic changes between years. Kristján L. Möller and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Ericdóttir do not express material support, but they do not comment on the fact that the committee has moved her and that she is available for the program. Following a discussion by the Committee, they understand the right to make adjustments to the situation. Then, in this synonym, a more detailed explanation of the individual development of the proposal is not considered appropriate for me to extend my case here and now. A respectable president. The committee has been discussing this matter for the winter. We all agree that this system needs to make changes in the future. The above - quoted report can be considered acceptable to the object referred to as the building agency's pot, mainly based on the amount of dose followed by their actions. But, as noted earlier, in the report I read, there is hope that there is a reasonable way to use these provisions to further trust in sensitive places. It is noteworthy, however, that early data do not indicate this, and when the report is published, it is noted that the measures that have been involved in recent years seem to have yielded pretty good results, i.e. " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " ♪ " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " This, of course, is the goal of building trust where these measures are made. At the Committee, the committee agrees that this matter needs to be reviewed at the next assembly. Therefore, we suggest that this will be only one year at the same time, although the law allows it to be six years old and should be revised in at least three years of age. The work we started last winter did not give us the results we had made this year. Clearly, we need more time to evaluate the effect of this and to shape our long - term policies. Any phase changes to the system under which these conditions have been established will affect the situation. Certain aspects of this system have been adapted, so it is not too easy to make radical changes. You have to adapt the system to some longer-term changes in my opinion. We can watch such beaches as are part of this arrangement; what the consequences would be if they were to be taken away overnight, both for those who practice them and for some of the built - in structures on this arrangement. So we suggest that the next winter will have even more work in these areas and try to see if we can be more effective in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u85	V.E.G. President. Here again is a proposal to smell the employment board on the treatment plan and the provision of resources derived from an overall budget under the Code on Fish Control, No. 116/2006, i.e. how the 5.3% of those who are removed and formed in this exchange pot is set aside for the different pots. The chairman of the Committee has described the switch that appears in the Senate resolution proposal, so I don't have to say it again. But I'm going to say right away that I'm warning the proposal, which is mainly due to two factors. First, on the 8th side, it shows that up to 1,000 tons will be put aside for special temporary action. Of course, if this is done, it will cut down the proportion of what goes on beach fishing, in support of communities, in the construction market, in line attendance, for vacation fishing, and future farming on cod. The other point that I make comments on page 22 is shown. 6 of the Parliamentary decree, in chapter 11 of the preceding article, which speaks of a fishing market. It is worth noting that, in fact, five.3% of all fish are taken into this pot, although not all, of those who are eaters. This is then done so that a market for Fish Office and the Ministry has been tried to exchange the species involved in the major types involved, i.e. cod, ale, a woof, and a catfish. It has been stated in the Committee and is presented in a paper with the Senate appendage on experience in this case, that these small species cannot always be sold. We can take as an example the distribution of fur, but not all of us are caught. Then don't buy it, the nature of the case, and that makes this minus that's going to be on the pot. That's the other thing I'm making notes about right now, and I'm warning you. It says that during the 2015/2016 fishing year, it appears that it lacks 6,400 tons of cod and 492 tons of fragrants. In 2014/2015, for example, a fishing season was required to correct what was needed in 2014/2016, which required no less than 738 tons of diatom, 610 tons of catfish, 412 tons of pueries, and about 200 tons of cod. However, during the 2013/2014 fishing season, about 7,000 tons of cod were lost. It has been shown in the Committee that this is not the same as any other thing when we're talking about sustainable fishing and witnesses and more that we're wearing this minus. So I say that one of my officers turns to how we can and is going to pay on this debt and what method we're going to use. I am, for example. does not agree that it would be cut down completely. This would mean a minimum of 20% cut-off on the pot distribution of temporary measures. For example, if applied, the pot of 9,000 tons to the coastal fishing will be dropped by 1,800 tons. That's my captain. I've got nothing to do with the fact that the case has been delivered. I did the last thing I did, and I'm doing it because it's moved by a professional committee. But for a second round. As part of the committee, we need to work out how this debt, as it were, will be paid up into this pot. There are a number of ways in which I'm not going to make a subject here and now. But I'd like to say right away, to the very end of the report given here by economist and judge at the University of Akureyri, and at the University of Akureyri, it's Vífill Karlsson and Hjalti Jóhannesson, and it's fine. She has to be in a position to lie a little bit over her. It shows that the general rural population is considered to produce the most structural effects of the longest action used, but line integration and coastal fishing are alternated according to the method used, while shelling is considered to be the least to achieve the desired structural effect. The report is a very professional and remarkable and good document, but we who are sitting on a job committee would have had to have more time to go through it. According to this, I have to say that I am acting in advance of the findings that these experts presented in this regard as a special urbanised graffiti of the graffiti, which has been assigned to several rural communities, which are considered to be based on fracture prevention. That's why, and probably the main cause of this in the press, is that the experience of the operation has been only three years, and it may not have been measured as well as if it had lasted longer. But I would say that this operation, which will be assigned to a population of longer than one year's time, if I remember to five years of age, includes a much greater firmness for the homework to be built on. I've told you before, because here goes a former shipman on the glacier from the Redfarves, boy. paritaprevir Ossse Skarphéðinsson, and I was going to make it a subject that the Redfaring crew gets 400 tons, that I've seen -- hadn't. A senator may leave now, I've kissed him for the time being on the glacier from Raufal. I've seen in a company that runs fish work at Redfarves, GPG at Húsavík, a plan with this quota plus what others from the company suggest, and I've never previously seen a plan to give up to 40 people a job in the fishing industry for up to 11 months a year, apart from summer vacation of course. She was the result of this distribution. It's 400 tons out of the pot for a few years. Such an arrangement allows companies to build themselves up completely differently, creating future employment and future policies in this regard. No doubt this applies to more rural societies, who receive markets for the home base, six of which are in the Northeast standard, and it seems to me to be four in the northwestern district, U.S.A. Congress, Flats, Southern, and Drangsnes in the Northwestern district andreney, Gímiray, Raufarau, Bakkafjordur, Breiðdalsvík, and Deepvík, North-eastern district. Here comes Deep-Pigs in with 800 tons. I have to say, the 800 tons we could put in there because of these actions are a natural drop in the ocean compared to what went out of Deepvogur when the company in Grinsavík took its work from there. This is, we can say, a patch on that wound or a donation to try to offset it. That's why I say: I think it's going to continue moving more into this caution-tap to meet the fragility. Then the question is, Where to Take It? Now, as I said before, we have to wait for those 1,000 tons to be suggested to take temporary action. But finally I say, I think we need to find another and better way to make this system work, including auctions on the markets, so that the pot can be balanced. This was my speech with my first letter. The proposal and I reiterate what I said earlier, the case comes back to the employment committee for further work, and further suggestions will be expected to come from the Committee and my notice on what I have here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u86	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a proposal for interpretation of the provision of the total resources, this 5.3%. It's been reported that the one standing here. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller does not express material support for the proposal, but he does not comment on moving it in order to make it part of his schedule. This case is so growing that, of course, there is no reason to deny that regulations can be set aside and prepared for the next fishing year, although I would have liked to see that we were on the job committee and at this time the Department of industry would have gone further on the review of this part of the fishing business. To me, it would be on the way of jumping it up with the advantage of social action and these coastal areas across the country, and that not only this one pot would be left to 5.3% but it would be used to expand a portion of available resources. So I've been thinking that I'd like to see the much bigger part and that there's some way that the government can offer suggestions on both the better linking of the cohesion and the availability of edification parties and the various means of managing them, such as renting them labor warrants and long - term access to both the state's earnings and that they weren't shopping between renting dishes. The state could use that income to make things more upbuilding in these coastal areas, and it would be much better than being drawn up within this section, 5.3% -- it makes a difference to me than it is to me, all too much. There's been a lot of disagreement as to how these things are divided among themselves. Hence, according to a report on how these objects benefited the communities. Two excellent reports were published on matters that are very interesting and interesting. As we have seen, there is not enough experience in this special rural graffiti that has been negotiated with a number of TVs to three years, and it can be extended by two years, to me. There is no experience that the effect can be accurately predicted. But as we who have observed these matters know, these communities have been very successful, getting this special settlement. It's being added to him by another case that's been under consideration, about the change in fish control law, and I think it's well. I've also said and said it again here that these everlasting patches on this thing have grown tired for a long time. That it is always trying to hatch and patches something that would really have to be cut up and jumped up; throwing all the cards into the air and jumping up again, according to experience. According to the introduction of these reports and how the measures taken have been developed in the coastal areas, the conferences have often been well discussed, and are they trudging about: Should the line harmony be reduced? Should the general population be reduced and then transferred to the special menstrual area? Is coastal fishing going to increase? But there is always talk that this pot is not expanding but that it is moving between its members. We know that there's only one thing, and it's gonna get to someone who might have the least of it. It's just too small. I know that those who have had this special agreement with the graffiti, these settlements that are presented here: Tribal fun, Patrekfjörður, Development, Flats, Southunciation, Drangenes, Piglet, Gímurney, Shreakfar, Brekafjovík, Deepvíg - that line order is of enormous importance in this context. The premise of contracts with a graffiti is broken in some of these places if the linefalls become impaired. That's just how it looks. I was a little surprised when I saw the results from the RHA, the conclusions of the Department of Research at the University of Akureyri. It shows that the general market provides the most based basis for the measures below. The question is, What is fundamental? Is it landy? Is that a job? Or what exactly is under it? As I understand this is not talking about secondary jobs. General graffiti - more often than not, it has been a dissatisfaction with the way he has been moving around. It's not always understood how that transfer is made. Often there has been a great debate among rural society over who will be involved in the general market and who will struggle to do so. I thought it would have been quite normal for this greeting to be rented in a tenet at a fair price on the part of the State. They would pick up from him who fell under the deportations of those places that were involved and could be tied to the settlements so that this was not supported by any other reason than being used by the individual. Coastal hunting takes second place and is said to be most useful here in the capital area. This, of course, will stick to the eyes and look like nothing. As I understand this, I understand the explanation that in the capital area, this is a huge number, the largest amount of fish is in this country, coastal fishing. But by the composition of a job, I would think the coastal fishing is much more significant than the large context here in the capital area, where there is a fertile industry in so many areas. Coastal fishing has also been creating raw materials at the time of the year, during the summers, that are more often than not raw. There are many things I feel that I need to explain more about this report. This report is good for its hat, but it does not tell the whole story, and it would have had to be viewed from more sides as well. So I'm satisfied that this case will be submitted even if I don't agree with what it is and would have wanted to change it. But I think it's only natural that this case will be settled at the council as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u87	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the pots; a proposal to make a resolution of the way we employ these 5.3%. It has been seen that this pot is needed to meet those who lose resources and are under attack. All of us would like to stay in the country. The development here with us is simply that fishing is all moving to the southwest corner. More than half the fish industry is about an hour away from the airport. Evolution is like that. Freshfish export is getting bigger. Then we realize that the places that are the longest from the airport are going to be hit. In other words, these settlements are being assigned to them. As noted from this chair, reports and research have been made on how these implementations have been implemented. We've got some moves here. We have coastal fishing, we have improvements, shrimp and Scaring, we have a special support for community-based, this settlement, and then we have the building center, line design, vacation fishing, etc. The beach fishing was a little done first, but I think that today there's gonna be a lot of peace to them. Coastal fishing is doing a lot for the scattered areas. Although experience shows that much of the fishing work is being done on the southwest corner, it still exerts tremendous influence on the scattered areas and the smaller ports. We can debate the change, how we divide it, whether it's better to put it in a beach fishing or in a settlement. In fact, the experience is that there has been disagreements at home where rural governments have been assigned. It is as if the demand is greater than the oer. However, the overall impact of the rural population - as stated in one of these reports, a report by Vífill Karlsson - is that the predominantly build - up effect of the water pots that has been used most widely. Despite debate over that pot, that pot is working. It has also been observed that there has been a small experience on this ruralisation agency, the building market, which is a longer-term contract and then, up to six years. So it is firm for the settlements that have been affected, and fishing grounds have gone. So it is not wrong to see one more year, if this is taken back after one year as suggested, i.e. that it should be reviewed again next year. It's also a little controversial. There was a chivalry to create jobs in the country. In fact, jobs are being taken from sea to sea, and they seem to be on their own. There are benefits and defects in this approach. It may be that national angles are being driven along the highways of the country, with the appropriate oil costs and pollution. Nevertheless, following the general basis of these protocols, line integration occurs in the next position. As noted by earlier speakers, the defect in the distribution of this pot, this 5.3%, is actually distributed year after year more than the material being available. In other words, if we can put it that way, it's over. It says that in 2013/2014, 7,000 tons of cod were missing. 2014/2015 ran out of 200 tons of cod, 738 tons of cod, 610 tons of catfish, and 412 tons of ewes. During 2015/2016, it appears that it lacks 6,400 tons of cod and 492 tons of ewes. Clearly, we need to break up this distribution and figure out how to distribute so that our project every year is not planned. There are some ways to do that. I agree with what. paritaprevir Kristján Möller says that these 6,000 tons, which are distributed and missing this year, are not particularly inclined to take all the impairment, though it might be reasoned, on one board of the next distribution. We need to find some ways. I hope that if this goes back to the job committee, it will only be considered by members of the Committee and considered how it can be handled. I can think of one way, depending on a resolution from the U.S. miniboat owners. It identifies humans as wanting more species into linefalls. They ask for a bowl, and they langa to get in that pot. I can imagine that by reducing pressure at Fish Room, in the exchange market, they're trading these resources and trying to get cod enough for - that they would only be relieved. But the biggest difference, I think, is that it's still a stick of fur. [[The president calls.]] We're assigning to a future hairy fishing, where the distribution of fur is late. But I trust we'll take it a little further into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u88	V.E.G. President. I am now serving on a bill to legalize the change in rents, No. 36/1994, with subsequent changes. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by several visitors, including some. Department of Health, Social Services, Hf., National Social Services, Reykjavíkurburg, and the Union of Iceland. News came from the Democratic Association of Iceland, Bustla in the Northern Lands of hsf., Bauta hsf., Iceland's Institute of Institutes, Social Relations hf., National Institutes of Social Services and Social Services, Mosfellstown, Perversity Protection, The Union of Social Services and Health Services in Reykjavík City. The bill suggests a number of changes in rents, but the main objective of the changes is to increase the security of tenants and make more firm in the way tenants and landlords deal with each other so that problems can be avoided later. A similar bill was presented for the 144th legislature but was not completed. 3 mg. 2.g. A tenet is now said that if an apartment house is rented to certain groups, such as students, elderly, or desperate, where special circumstances require other regulations than laws, may be permitted, because of the special nature or purpose of the operation, to deviate from the specific laws of the law by contract. B-team 2. The bill is suggested to make the law tight so that it will only take place in its own country. Notes of the narrative and the visitors of the Committee on the bill were primarily present at b-axis 2.g. They described various types of terms in contracts that measure general rent laws on the basis of the paragraph, including the extent of insurance, the highest rent rights to rent houses, resignations and disclosures of contracts, tenants' information, and rent payments directly to landlords. Some withdrawals of the paragraph significantly disturbed their activity. The committee considers it undesirable to give the same open clearance as in Article 3. 2.g. A tenure in view of the purpose of the law as a second rule to limit the freedom of the party to protect tenants' rights. The committee feels that it is reasonable to take a stand on the basis of a legal decision to displace an individual command for specific circumstances, as suggested by the bill because of a nonprofit legal entity. That is what the first verse of paragraph 3 shows. The bill that they are allowed to set legitimate and grammatical conditions for renting houses and in the 4th paragraph of the same paragraph that they are allowed to make the terms of renting apartment housing pay directly to themselves and to the b-teem 26. par., d- team 27. ... andtheE team 31. is a law that restricts the tenant's priorities and pays for the resignation or violation of a contract if a tenant does not meet legitimate and grammatical conditions for renting or does not provide sufficient information. In terms of the scope of insurance, the Commission believes that if it is considered necessary to raise money at the start of a home that is considerably higher than the amount of money spent at 40 C.E. The rent does not specify farm or property options better than renting. However, the committee feels that there is reason to make an exception because of renting to nonprofit students who have a primary objective to serve as students. In general, such rent is intended only for a limited period of time and directly related to tenant studies. Thus, the committee feels that such a special motive may be such a rent that it is justified in allowing a variation from the common law's requirements. Articles 1 and 2 of paragraph 3. The bill was criticized on the grounds that they would indicate that, in other cases, renters would not be free to choose whom they rented or to call for needed information. On this basis the committee says that it feels that there will be no benefit in this way from the rules, but only if they are for application on the relevant authority. However, the committee feels that it would be right to make two adjustments to the bill in connection with the withdrawal of Article 3. 2.g. A rent. On one hand, the Committee suggests a change in D- team 27. ... andtheE team 31. which includes the need for a lease contract to be specified in such a state as to which they are clearly identified. However, the Committee suggests a change in the b- team 28. the bill indicating that a temporary contract with a three-month notice has to be issued does not meet the tenant's requirements or does not provide sufficient information. The committee believes that, as in the case of non-term contracts, it is desirable that housing can be arranged as early as possible for tenants who meet the requirements. Seven. The bill says that when the law sets out that messages, whatever names they may call, are written, messages in electronic form should be counted as satisfying these separations, provided they are technically available to the recipient so that he can study their contents, preserve them, and prescribe them later. The committee rejoices that contracts can be paid to communicate electronically, but they feel that it is necessary to make clear every electronic message being sent directly. So the committee suggests that messages are sent to a telephone, an e - mail address, or other site of decision given in a contract. As 1 mgr, rent law obliges the maintenance of tenures. Twenty-niner. However, a bat is assigned to care for its own costs of maintenance of lock, water jars, electrical linkings, and other details, such as 3 mg. The same articles. In the first verse 2 of paragraph 12, paragraph 12. The bill is suggested that renters seek the maintenance of locks show tenants that failures are not attributed to neglect or error by a tenant or by people in his ways. The committee suggests that if failures are not attributed to failure or to the error of a tenant or to the error of his ways, the landlord will also be cared for for for the maintenance of water taps and electric rods. The cost of their repair can be several, and the committee does not feel that there is any particular evidence that the tenant may not have been specifically negotiated. However, the committee suggests that the tenant remains responsible for minor maintenance, such as exchange of light bulbs and batteries in the smoke sense and decomposition, which may be expected to be generally reduced for tenants than landlords. In the second discourse, paragraph 12, paragraph 2. The bill says that a landlord must handle the maintenance of burn defenses in order to meet the requirements for burn prevention set out in law and regulations. The law was criticized on the grounds that renters were excluded from making sure that it was always so. A landlord could e.g. not to prevent renting batteries from a smoke detector or to empty a fire extinguisher. The Commission suggests a slight shift of 3 mg. Twenty-niner. to explain that a landlord is responsible only for the regular maintenance and repair of cars that are not the responsibility of a tenant. On the other hand, if burns are to be harmed by a tenant or by other persons he has allowed to use their housing or traffic, this is to the responsibility of a tenant, as noted at 2 mg. 18th par. The committee also notes that a tenant is expected to be responsible for minor maintenance, such as exchange of batteries in the smoke sense. The 2nd matter of page 25. The bill says that a landlord should keep bail on a special account. That question was raised to the committee whether to establish a special account for each tenant, but it would clearly be adverse for landlords with many tenants, e.g. Like a student's tenure. For this reason, the committee stated that the instructions involve only the keeping of bail from the landlord's money. In Figure 3 1. Sixty-one. A tenure is authorized for a landlord to break down a lease if a tenant uses a house in ways other than law or contract and does not allow its abuse in spite of the written admonition of landlords. A- force 31. The bill is suggested for the removal of a written reminder. The committee considers it more reasonable to a tenant to be warned before a contract is canceled, and the Commission considers this to be too difficult for tenants to face. So the committee suggests that the separation of a written reminder remains. The committee noted that a large proportion of problems between landlords and tenants were often concerned about whether a tenant has ruined rent houses. It was often difficult to care for, since housing conditions were usually not taken out at the beginning of rent time. Many controversies could be avoided if so. In view of the indication, the Committee suggests a change in 35th and 37th. the bill indicating that rent - house status should be evaluated prior to delivery and at the end of rent time. Contracts can either do it themselves, and depending on the events, they use forms that the Ministry has made a declaration of the assessment by Article 4. The law, or they'll get an independent reviewer. In paragraph 2, paragraph 1, paragraph 42. The bill says that one of the members of the CREEP Committee is an engineer. It was noted that more professionals than engineers have expertise in construction techniques, such as technicians, architects, and architects. So the committee suggests that one member of the committee has expertise in construction techniques. The committee followed a lead from Iceland's Strategologists' Society and added this. 46th. The bill is added to the law on forced sales, No. 90/1991 that a tenant may remain temporarily in an apartment home after its forced sale against rent due to a suitable rent. An apartment loan fund criticized that a businessman was assigned to set the rent level and considered it normal to agree that according to the terms of a contract for forced sale, if rent prices were not too high or low. The Commission feels that only the locals look at rent prices according to rent contracts when assessing what would be considered a suitable home payment for the home and therefore does not suggest a change in the bill. Other forms of change explain themselves. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following changes: 1st Following the word "Environment Home" to the 1st matter b-joins 2.gr. come: or rent an apartment house to a student from a nonprofit school student who has a primary objective to serve as a student. 2. Paragraph 7. put it this way: When these laws make it known that any form of message they call is written, they should be written, preserved, and prospective messages in electronic form be considered to satisfy this divorce if they are sent to a telephone, an e - mail address, or any other decision given in a contract. 3. B-along tenr. Notes: Instead of the words, an tenant's legitimate demand for reform within two months from when it arrived, in the second paragraph, is stated: added to the limit of the house within eight weeks of receiving an announcement. 4. At Section 12. a. Following the word "lock-locks " in the first language of the 2nd paragraph, come the word:" Water jars, power links. b. The latter part of Article 2 will be removed. c. Following the word "missing gaps" in the 3rd paragraph, you will see: and you will maintain fire defenses. 5. Paragraph 13. put it this way: Residents are obliged to care for their costs of minor maintenance, such as the exchange of light bulbs and batteries in the smoke sense and the removal of drains. 6th After the 19th. A new article, as follows: The following changes will occur at 25. The law: a. The word "them" after the cost of a remuneration will fall away. b. The words "Shiloh. " 23rd, fall away. 7. 2nd matter of course b-joints 25. gr. ... goout. 8. To the d-d-d-tee 27r. is two changes: a. Following the word "Househouses" came the following: in a lease contract. b. Instead of the word ◆ The conditions of the word, at the end of the first part of the material, come: the conditions. 9. At 28. are also two sections; a-a is the definition of an older article; all of this can be read together in the document: a. The B-man says, "After the 2nd issue comes three new terms, saying, "Let's have two deadlines at least." Three months. It is also allowed to cancel a temporary lease contract with three months notice notices when a tenant will no longer meet the legal and legal conditions of rentors for rentable housing or do not provide the necessary information to test if he or she meets the requirements. The resignation of a temporary contract should be written and followed with logical support for the resignation. b. C Company departs. 10. At 31. a. Added to the a- team: and will not abandon its abuse despite the written reminder of the landlord. b. Instead of the words ◯skv. Counts 3 of 'em in E's, come in. Section 3. a specified in a contract. 11th At Thirty-five. a. Article 1 of the material of the a- team puts it this way: The tenant and the landlord or their agents should evaluate the condition of the rented facility prior to delivery and at the end of rent time. The independent review should be performed by one party and the costs of the assessment should be balanced between them. b. Following the word "supervises" in paragraph 2 of the a- team, come in: c. Instead of the words ◯2,◯4. mg/m2 b-join: 2.6.5. mg 12th Following the word "b-joins 37th. " Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. 13th Instead of the word "encyclopaedia, " in the 2nd paragraph 1, paragraph 42. come: have expertise in the construction field. Under this opinion all welfare committees, i.e. Yeah. Senator and chairman of the Committee, Sigríður Ingabjörg of Ingadóttir, why. The members of Arnardóttir Arnardóra, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Þorvarðardóttir Körlfdorf Þólvar, Páll Valur Björnsson, daughter of Ragnheiður, the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, who stands here, Stetggrim J. Sigfússon, and Bjori, the Konráðsdóttir of Congisdo. I'm just gonna wet my throat after I read it. This bill to legalize the change in rent law, as we have seen, at the World Council for the second time. It was also arranged at 144th and now again at 145 C.E. We've made quite a few changes, as you've heard on the bill and all for the better. The commission received a number of reviews, 15 reviews, all very detailed and well along. I thank the sources for taking time and helping us make this bill what it is today. Of course, we carefully reviewed each of the references and tried to give them as much consideration as we could, given that they had a good look at the end of the bill. I'd like to grab a few points, but first, I'd like to read some comments, I took with me three comments. I would like to read them briefly in order to shed more light on them. Of course, they were different, and there are different viewpoints and interests, but we made it together. First, I have a review of the household's Habitat Organization and with the permission of a president. I would like to read their reviews briefly. It even says here.Unable to connect to POP The bill contains a number of requirements designed to increase the security of tenants, including clearer rules for communication with a potential contract and permission to negotiate by e - mail. The organization is that the main policy of such proposals is positive that tenants and landlords'legal relationship will be made clearer in this regard. It is also suggested that there will be no longer any legal fees, but not prior rent, and that these guarantees may be maximum of only three months' rent. Moreover, it is suggested that renters do not insist on making a deposit price, so it should be returned to a tenant within four weeks of the last period of rent instead of two months. The organization follows this change, and it involves a simple process that is designed to increase the security of tenants. A review from the National Association of Iceland stated that ASI is unchanged from the previous council, which brought in a very good review. It says, by permission of the President: It is concluded by ASI that the bill contains positive changes with improved tenant status. ASI specified two negative changes brought about by the previous bill, which has been lost in the currently existing bill. So I'll go on and take it down a little bit into the previous ASI review from the 144th legislature, with the permission of a president: However, in general the bill covers what is discussed here as a positive change in tenants' standing towards the above ASI position, although it is not going as far as it should be. Positive changes in the bill can be summed up in a way that supports rent safety, e.g. in general extensions and restrictions on principles of the current legislation on the reporting and communication of the rent agreement. The third and final review I have here is from the School of Social Services. As noted in a committee study, the Social Services Association has a special status that includes students, and we are always considering busy, academic, and otherwise. We met their viewpoints, including those of the others. by adding to Article 3. and there are particularly nonprofit students. We believe we've met their point of view, including with this change, thinking that there we have had certain success in making the bill even better and more righteous. This was shown when representatives of the Social Services came before him. The welfare committee that it would not be particularly concerned about obligatory rules and such because society's rules are very clear about that. The Agency strives to deal with situations that may arise in students so that people are not thrown out like that. They try to meet people, as I say. It wasn't a problem for them. It says in their review, by permission of the president: ▪ On the basis of the above - mentioned authority, a client has moved on some of the rights of rent law in contracts with his tenants, e.g. On the resignations of contracts, their renovations, and the priority rights of a tenant. Do they come to terms with the unique nature of the operation that has been handled by the speaker? As previously attributed, it is one of the main roles of the instructor to provide students at the University of Iceland with a suitable housing for the benefit of their studies and thus make it easier for them to study. This role has been used by a manager on the construction of apartments rented for students to cover rents that are far below the routine of a public rent. However, after students have finished or stopped studying, there is no evidence that a student would continue to give them a place of housing on such terms, but it is assumed that the graduates would feel that the option would be to stay in the apartments of students as long as possible. As a result of this need to be able to assume in their contracts that students will be removed from their apartments as they complete or quit their studies, so that they can be rented back to students who are truly attending the University of Iceland. The same is true if students themselves have an apartment home in the capital area or possess such facilities during their studies, thus not having the same need for housing as others who are not in the same position. I put it this time to go deeper into the points presented in a committee study, and I assume that members of the health committee, more than I, will address the following questions. I would like to thank some members in particular for their enjoyable cooperation. We are different, we come from different political groups, different views, there were reviews from all directions, and we were as one man trying to figure out a solution to the issues that came up. It was difficult and time - consuming, but it was worth it. Once again, I'd like to thank great members on the welfare board for a good cooperation and just have to say that, tops. President, it's sometimes like this one, which is rather fun to be a general.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u89	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for her speech as she passed through the committee's opinion of the welfare committee with a bill to correct the change of rent laws as well as adjustments. The welfare committee proposes to the bill. I take it in part to commend myself for my duties. The welfare committee. I was so lucky, as a substitute member of the Committee, that I fell into some of the committee meetings where this very matter was being discussed. The way the committee held matters, as well as how the committee discussed what might be a difference of opinion and where differences might lie, I thought it was a perfect example. Of course, she had the tricky role, away from perhaps having different political views on the case, having to follow the fine path between doing what the bill is doing, strengthening the position of tenants, without going so close to renters that no one would want to rent out an apartment, whether it was individuals or legalized, because of renting certain groups, such as students, and all of course everyone else. I felt that the committee was a success, and it is obvious, of course, that all members of the committee sign the committee's opinion. Still, it was not easy work, as shown by the changes that arose. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir introduced us. They are in 13 numbers. Sometimes it is just a word that is being divided, but sometimes larger material changes are being made, so there is no small issue. As I said earlier, I was so lucky to be seated on a few committee meetings. I'd like to make some of the points mentioned in a committee study the subject and that were exactly discussed when I was on the committee meeting. Last year, when the bill was submitted for the first time, there was quite a few talk about the disappearance of the 3rd mg. 2.g. A rent. This is a sentence I think many of us in this hall have been learning and knew that it matters. The committee listened to the viewpoint that it was not to be eliminated entirely because it was important to certain groups. It had been decided that there would continue to be certain rules for the residence. However, the viewpoint had shown that there were other groups who needed special rules. They needed to take a stand on the extent to which these rules might be replaced and to what extent others would need to be taken into account. I thought it was exemplary that the committee received, not even a couple of times, but those who were concerned about this provision and really sought to find expressions that would be acceptable to all. Hence, a new proposal for sales for nonprofit academics has been made for the purpose of a student to apply to those who run a home. I was impressed by the way the committee handled this situation. Another point, though, that was discussed at committee meetings and may not at first give up on the impression that a tenant and a tenant may be able to communicate with them electronically. Seven. The bill says that when the law establishes that the message, any name they call, is written, messages in electronic form should be considered sufficient. I think it's just the 21st century. However, here it is plainly stated: They are technically accessible to the receiver to study the contents of the recipient. One of the suggestions suggested by the committee is that electronic messages be sent to a telephone, an e - mail address, or another site for making a contract. I think it's really important to have the caution that they are technically accessible to the recipient because it's sadly so in our society that not all who can just afford the technical equipment needed to receive such messages. That's why I think it's important to be stated. Then they can decide when the deal is concluded that it's like this. There is something else I would like to do, but it was the maintenance of a burning defense that also set a good example for me. It was noted that if tenants were made to make sure that in all times, batteries and fire extinguishers were always full, they could become very burdensome. These men were not trying to free themselves of responsibility that these things should be okay at the start of rent lessons, yet they pointed out that they were very difficult to make sure that it was always okay. Here again, I felt exemplary in discussing how this could be resolved so that everyone could be content with pleasure. Finally, I'd like to mention breaking contracts. It had been assumed that contracts could be canceled only, but the committee considered them to be more reasonable with tenants that they received one warning before a contract was canceled, for without any warning a contract could be dealt very badly with by tenants. The committee did not think it was too taxing a landlord that it was once given a chance, so to speak, by written admonition. And again the committee sat over with the members of the Committee to find out how to put these words so that everyone could be happy. And I have to say, top dog. In the limited sense that I came to work at the committee bill, the job seemed very much to me to imitate, very pleasant, unfortunately, a little unusual. I certainly hope that those of us who shared in this work will include us in other committees how we can work well together. Then I also hope that we will continue to see that it is a good time to review the reviews, give a good time to call even more than once, and more than two visitors into the committee meeting if the committee thinks it is necessary, and so men eventually reach conclusions that can be satisfied.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u90	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for her story on this case just earlier today. We will discuss a bill to correct a change in rent, No. 36/1994, with subsequent changes. This bill is one of four primary housing plants that have been hit. a well-being committee for this council winter. The primary objective of this bill is to increase the legal security of tenants and provide more firmness in dealing with tenants and landlords to avoid future conflicts. Emphasis is placed on free negotiations between landlords and tenants but also on the need to set legal values for that type of contract. For example, when a tenant's tenant house - to - house living is lacking at the beginning of rent hours or later during rent hours, in the wake of failure of the tenant's maintenance of the rented house, an attempt is made. In addition, changes in the assessment of the rented home should be made so that people gather for the applicant instead of consulting the local construction representative. In an effort to ensure better monitoring of the Icelandic tenet, it is suggested that the release of the Homing House Committee on a case related to the implementation of contracts be binding to the parties. - This is how the bill looked when it came to what it was. The welfare committee. The bill was also submitted to the last legislature and came for material treatment here at the council. Hv. The welfare committee completed an opinion on the subject, but it did not succeed. Therefore, it was reimposed with several changes. These changes are based on the comments on the subject when it was submitted to the last legislation. As is the case, all comments received cannot be dealt with, but they were taken into account as far as possible. In this context, there is a comment that was responded, but comments included about 3 mg. 2.g. It's about rights, i.e. any rent you can negotiate with the law, e.g. I'll tell you what to do. In the matter proposed to the last legislation council, the release was proposed, that no hired men be able to negotiate from rents. That law became a source of great criticism in the process of action. The welfare committee at the last legislation. Their comments were ignored, and the complete removal of the law was canceled. Instead, it was extremely narrow. The reason for stipulation is to impose these laws on the current law is that it is known, unfortunately, in general tenants have been taking advantage of the releases, making contracts where rent contracts have not been followed and, in some case, violated the rights of tenants, as if by a shorter notice on contracts but by law. However, it is in some cases that this parole must be available. Hence, it was shocking to recommend a provision that would extend to the home where it belongs. That parole is put in to negotiate from the local rent. It is given because of its special nature and purpose. According to the law, there is annuity to deviate from the specific requirements of these laws by making a contract. In these contracts the variation should be conceived. A residence home refers to a operating home, with the goal of contributing to the rehabilitation of individuals most of whom have been in treatment or rehabilitation or in prison. However, in the outworking of the matter, it was decided to extend only this stated provision and now extend the entitlement to the renting of apartment housing to nonprofit students who have a primary objective to serve as students. This change is made because such rent is generally intended to last for a limited time and in direct contact with tenant studies. The committee believes that such a special motive may be applicable to such rents, so it is justified in allowing a variation from the common legal requirements. The manager of the case, huh? paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, went over the committee's opinion. She considered some of the other factors that the committee suggests in the progress of the matter and presented in the members of the committee. Councilmen on welfare committee. There are some factors involved in dealing with landlords and landlords, maintenance of rent houses, disclosure of contracts, and assessment of rented houses, and criminal housing. All of these are presented to try to reduce differences due to contracts and to better explain the position of landlords as well as landlords. A respectable president. 46. g. The bill deals with forced sales, and in addition to the law on forced sales, the law of No. 90/1991 that a tenant may remain temporarily in an apartment home after its forced sale against rent due to a suitable rent. This law suggests that tenants will be guaranteed comparable rights to the owners of an apartment house sold under forced sale. It is suggested that the forced sale of an apartment house that the tenant has used according to a contract should be properly used to maintain rent-time use after an incident with the exception but never longer than 12 months from an agreement to pay rent, which, in the opinion of the businessman, would provide adequate rent. It is thus assumed that a tenant is not entitled to use the house - to - house service after the temporary contract expires within a year of the approval of an invitation. The same is true if a contract is permitted during this period and the deadline runs out in time. If neither of these conditions apply, it is expected that a tenant will be able to use housing for up to 12 months to pay adequate rent to the buyer. Depending on the opinion of a businessman, rent is expected to be expected to be based on the level of rent, but it would probably be based on the agreed rent unless it is considered to be of little value to the uses. This is important and should ensure a higher level of safety, should prevent a tenant from being carried out a few days after an apartment is sold as a forced sale, but unfortunately we have heard such reports from time to time. In some of these cases, tenants have not known that the owner of the premises was underdeveloped and therefore not known because an extortary sale would occur. I'm not gonna keep my speech all the longer than I want to end it because of you. Congress members on the welfare committee for the development of the case and the secretary of the committee and thank the chairman of the case for the work on the bill. Thanks to the great solidarity of the issue. The welfare committee. Finally, I'd like to say, " It's a pleasure to have a good time. ' Three of the four Housing Committees are provided by a welfare committee. They have all been taken into great peace with members of the committee. One bill, with regard to increased housing benefits, is still on the welfare committee and is aimed at completing this important matter before the assembly interrupts.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u91	A respectable president. I'm here to make a note of the meeting board. It has been rumored that at the Assembly Hall today, the matter is not to be taken over any other matter. Tonight, many members of the Assembly Hall are, as it may be, divorced. A meeting may be held until midnight. Many are waiting to talk about important matters and viewpoints because an agreement was made on what subjects should be scheduled for the summer. Now it's as if I've heard that I'm not taking up a case that's number 21, over all the other issues, a case that's not really important, or that's going to be a public interest in the country, housing, or anything that's on the top of the government list. A respectable president. I object to this case at the council. In any way, I feel that this is the case with members of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u92	It is true that the idea is to take up the 21st calendar delivered by a administrative committee and a follow-up committee. Similarly, the president's plan is to start a discussion about the program and try to complete the most of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u93	V.E.G. President. I recommend a judicial hearing on the investigation of foreign stocks at 45.8% holding in Iceland's Farm Bank. O.F. It is true in the case of the highest. President that the case is taken from a management and surveillance committee. So all the members of the committee agreed. The motion is as follows, by permission of the president: In accordance with law on research committees, the study of the German Bank Hauck & Aufäuer Privatbankers KGaA leads to a 45.8% U.S. government ownership section of Iceland's Bank. The investigation will be entrusted to one man appointed by the President of the Generals. 1.mg. 2.g. review of research committees. He gathers and prepares information on the facts and how of the individual people to participate in the German bank's purchases, taking into account the information the buyers gave to the Icelandic government as the seller and its institutions. The study will be completed as soon as possible and no later than December 31, 2016. Along with this study, a management and monitoring committee reviews available data and information on the Rapporteur's coverage and conclusions of the sale of Investment Bank, Iceland's National Bank, hf. and Iceland's Farm Bank Corp, as agreed by Generalis of November 7, 2012. Based on results of the study, 1st mg, followed by review of administration and monitoring committees, scr. 4. The Commission will consider whether to propose further investigation of the privateisation of the employment investment bank, U.S.A.A., U.S.A. Bank. Based on the above conclusion from November 7, 2012, U.S.A. V.E.G. President. It's a suggestion. It's what it's up to. I'm going to read the first lines of a report, with the permission of a president: The point of the proposal is to reveal who was actually involved in the German Bank Hauck & Aufäuer Privatbankers KGaA holding 45.8% of the state's holdings in Iceland's Bank. as well as providing a basis for a further resolution of the Generals decision from November 7, 2012, on the investigation of the privatization bank of employment hf., Iceland's National Bank, U.S.A. and Iceland's Farm Bank Corp, as per law on research committees with subsequent changes. Then I'd like to refer to a paper that follows the Senate case that published a letter from the Allied agent, who proposed to the Commission and Control Committee, and thereby the Council, to have this investigation done. I'd like to state that all members of the Administrative Board and Control Committee agreeed with this. However, in discussing the matter, there have also been other suggestions, including why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, a study of the privatization of banks, the later privatization as it has been mentioned in some cases. I've said so, and it was discussed by the Board of Directors and Control, that it was only natural for the matter and others who may be raised to be treated promptly and that this case would come as soon as possible before the council. The last thing I would be to deny is that this is before the end of the council or this week. I would have been there to see that these cases were paying attention. But I appreciate the fact that this matter is being arranged here and suggest that it be done on a later basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u94	A respectable president. Well, there was a weird last word for it by then. paritaprevir The 100 - year - old son of Jónasson expressed appreciation for the coming up of this matter. I think that thanks should be more given to the members of the council waiting here and being next on the program instead of getting ahead of everybody with it, because if all had been taken care of, this case would not have been established until the morning. Some, however, have more priority here than others. It should be noted that the subject for discussion is on the subject. 1367. A similar subject that I gave early in November is on a treadmill. 392. That covers nearly 1,000 language numbers on these two issues that I wanted to be discussed with each of these programs, i.e. investigation of the former and second privatization of the banks. It was not the word. When this case came up, I went to the Board of Directors and Observers, and first I requested that these two issues be rounded up into one Senate document. It wasn't approved. There I requested that these matters be discussed. What is it? Yes, the case was taken out of the Board of Command and Control Committee for the past Thursday, and it's Tuesday today. I just don't remember such a quick payment on a single case, a respectable president, and I come here to tell you that I find the work of this very strange sort of thing to do. Then I'd like to ask. Jónasson Ögmundur The Board of Directors and Control Committee has neither cleared it up nor answered the source of the complaint, or who thinks he has anything new to do with it. Second, what is the subject that will be considered? How can you investigate a matter if no one is able to say what it is about?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u95	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator expressed his main attitude. I've previously described my attitude. But then there was a matter of the matter and the investigation proposed to be carried out. It is defined as the bill, and it refers to a letter from a representative of the General Assembly, the Council of these matters. We've been over his business at a meeting of the Board of Directors and Control Committee. Then, clearly in the matter of Congress and in the form of an article on what it is about.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u96	A respectable president. I'm turning down the opposite of what. paritaprevir Jónasson's son surmise, since there is nothing in this Senate document about what this matter is. This is a proposal to adopt 13 - year - old cases, to reassemble the council in a decisive manner, and to have the council itself appoint a committee of matters long ago under investigation. At the same time, in 2006 a government accountant was assigned to make a thorough assessment of the case, and there was no strange finding out from the data available on the Web site of the Kingdom Accounting. And not only that, but the personal development of the banks was discussed in the 71th - page study committee of the Allied Committee, and nothing came out of what the senators have said or did all the people of the country. In the meantime, a national judgment has been brought together. Here, severe Supreme Court cases have fallen, dealing with market mismanagement and other matters. Then I ask: What is being investigated? It is clearly stated in the Law on the General Commission that the subject should be clear and specific and that everyone should be aware of what to investigate. That's why I'm asking. Again: Who brought this new information to the Allellium agent who, using proben, was on the Alleger's Research Committee, one of three, and wrote a nine-band report on the fall of banks and a study of the previous privacy of the banks? Second, what is the charge that should be investigated so that those with the investigation can look to the 131⁄220 years of age for protection? How can you start an investigation of the council and drag the legislatator into it without anyone knowing what's going on? Rather, it's based on the public radio of some mystery guy in the city.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u97	V.E.G. President. In the opening words of a paper with the council resolution proposal, and I reiterate, with the permission of a president: The point of the proposal is to reveal who was actually involved in the German Bank Hauck & Aufäuer Privatbankers KGaA holding 45.8% of the state's holdings in Iceland's Bank. as well as providing a basis for a further decomposition of the World Council's resolution from November 7, 2012... This matter has been discussed in the past and often at the council, including in a question asked by me in February 2006 and was answered by the Ministry of Business. It is a reason to doubt whether they were correct, and the then secretary of business has publicly declared that it is normal and is glad that the case is under investigation. I reiterate that the matter is defined in the matter itself and in the paper that follows it. Otherwise, there is nothing more to say than to reason. A senator has expressed his view of the matter. I've described mine.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u98	A respectable president. I'd like to apologize to the members of the Parliament for the coming up of this matter, but everyone knew I'd talk about it. There's gonna be somebody waiting for Congress until the case is over, but it's not my responsibility, and I'll say it again. I asked that these matters be discussed together, the matter of a few days'old and case that I presented early in November, much more than a thousand numbers on the Parliamentary papers. It has been customary for members of the council to take notes, members of Parliaments who present their case earlier may be more likely to consider the matter and to discuss it. if the numbers are low. But new rules are being developed constantly, which are likely the responsibility of the president and the presiding committee. It is very difficult for members of Congress to work under such circumstances, especially in view of the proposal that I was going to discuss together with this issue that has been submitted before. It was first proposed in 2011 as an adjustment to the motion of the then greater part of the governments to investigate the privatization of banks once more. The matter was not resolved that year, and the matter was submitted again in 2012 and reached through it. Hv. A senator and executive of the case, Ögmundur Jónasson, pointed out that it had been approved in 2012 to initiate a study of the personal development of the banks of the first, and that my proposal was also presented as a change but was memorable, indicating that former government groups, greens and Conspiracies, do not want the investigation of the personal interest of the banks, the latter, will be investigated. That was very strange. I've told you before, since then, I've put it up at least. twice as an independent Senate document and not discussed the matter. It is now that there was some problem when 28 members of Congress agreed in their last term to initiate one additional investigation into the privatization of the previous, 28 members of Congress, the majority of the members of Congress, did not rely on the proposal to proceed with a full research case and a proposal for a new investigation. That is why the matter has been delayed, for up until then it had been a great deal of money at the council's research committees. This includes the Al Hallis Research Committee, which I referred to earlier, a research committee on the Surgeon Fund and the Research Committee on the Fund. The cost went high on committees to 1.5 billion. Hence, there was a political agreement to change this and that this would be a committee that would not be infinite, as in the case of these committees and was constantly being added, and money brought through a prime committee into budgets to meet the qualifications of the committee. That's fine. It must also fit, and I have discussed it in my synopsis and from the Senate hearing and to the Board of Directors and Control Committees, both the ideal times I've been sitting at the council, that I must not enter an investigation or investigational committee on behalf of the council for political purposes, in order to challenge the opponents. That's why I've been talking about at least A greater proportion of members of Congress have to agree with research committees. I would have preferred to see the change in the law of the research committees that went through the council last week, especially when a research committee on the privatization of banks once again, I went over it in a counter-reminent way how often they had been investigating the privatization of the banks of the previous year. I encourage people to go to the National Accounting site, the risotist's, to choose a tab that has the name Other, and to find documents under it by clicking on a link that will lead you to it. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, who answers his State Reconnaissance and doubts about the discovery of the German bank to the sale of the Bank. That case was handled well in 2006 by a president of the United States. I'd like to ask senators who are concerned with taking a good look at it, for somehow few seem to know about the existence of these documents. I also refer to chapter 6 of the report of the Aldulis Research Committee, which focuses on the investigation of the personalisation of the banks of the previous. It was also noteworthy that Tryggvi Gunnarsson was appointed by the Generals at the same time. But it is quite remarkable that he is brought into the council with anonymous letters and anonymous charges, urging that these cases be reexamined. As I have said, the matter has been given an unprecedented hurry-up at the council, it is clearly a political rush to initiate it, and the investigational committee for the privatization of the two banks does not exist as a Senate document at the same time as I had requested. As to this matter, it is proper to note that since I proposed a judicial arrangement for this and a change in arrangement, I have always spoken for meeting the requirements of the last government on the General Assembly Commission, to examine the personalization of the banks of the past by linking these two studies together. I think that's normal, and I was the first person to mention it and speak for the fact that these studies would be linked and together in one committee, an investigation of the personalization of banks first, and an investigation of the personal development of the second banks, which took place on autumn days 2009. In order to prevent misunderstandings, a respected president, for some have taken the lead in speaking about the fact that members of Congress are being badly read in these matters, I am speaking of the restoration of banks that took place on the autumn days of 2008. That's not what I'm talking about. It all worked out well and anointed them, and it was amazing to rebuild the banks after the collapse of the bank on the foundation of the crisis, and they were thankful for what it said. I'm talking about what happened when the privatization of banks, the second, took place. That was on autumn days 2009. The event started in February/mars that year, and it was well defined as the time period. This is a nine - month period in the history of the nation. On the top of the committees are data on this matter, which, of course, is a secret case, but I urge members of the Senate to study it. And then I've spent tens of months trying to get answers from the system that's going to this time. It has been very difficult to prove that the system is not quite quite ready to give them information to members of the Parliament and the Senate check-up committee. It should be noted that on April 27, more of the legal committee wrote a letter sent to the state accountant on May 2, and I am still waiting for answers to the questions there. I'm going to refer to that letter, to try to push on the official office to answer to the budget board. For example, I asked about the names of the demands brought to Arion on his early day on autumn days 2009 and on the price of their removal. Were assessments made of their anticipated worth? Did the completion of the Council of Copenhagen come about by then? Was the Sylveiner damaged by these devices? These include: The questions I've asked and I've been waiting for a month to answer. I hope this debate today will speed up the response from the office, since we can say, without the council's assistance, because the council is not ready to start a private service committee the second, start showing the people what happened during the days when the banks were either private without an invitation, actually moved to demandrs in one night.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u99	V.E.G. President. I wanted to give you a speech. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir says I'm a member of the Board of Directors and Control Committee agree that there's a reason for reviewing the privatization the second and that there will be a number of findings to reveal. I agree with that. But I'm not as convinced as she is that it's right to connect these two things together. The study currently available in the Council's Conspiracy Directive is very limited to certain events related to the personalization of the banks in 2002◯2003. I cannot see that it is a material advantage by linking it to the events that took place in 2009. In fact, I think it's better to have two separate studies in which each study has its opposites, its research questions, and a scenario that needs to be explained. I can agree with what. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir that his daughter has shown very much about the privatization of the banks. What has happened in this case, however, is that there is evidence that new information is provided that can change the picture we have of the events in that case and that it may reveal at least what has been so far. controversial. I think it's possible to do so in a relatively short study and get a clear view whether this is the real evidence that changes the film. That is why I hold up the proposal and hope that it will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u100	A respectable president. Before I forget it, and if it hasn't been in my first speech, that's what I'm suggesting. It is very important that this matter be resolved, though I doubt the truth or its purpose, so to speak. I'll do it on the basis of my support that both of the personalizations are being investigated. But political foxes are often, so for one thing, the rest is left behind. It has truly been published in the work of the Commission and monitoring committee under the leading former secretary of the last government, please. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son. He was aware of it all the time that both of these adjustments from the last term and the Congress proposal from me to investigate the subsequent privatization of banks for the council. All right. Well, that may be, my chief. Mr. President, I'd like to accept the welcome of my council resolution proposal to study the later privatization of the banks, to be scheduled tomorrow, as a barbarking was with me today, and I asked if I was ready to agree, since they were not allowed to be planned today. Then let's get into it, discuss it tomorrow, and take more time from the council on this matter, because there's an appointment for an assembly on Thursday. Well, you could say it's hand-to-hand. But there's something important at the same time, and I'd like to say it to him. paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson, that members of Congress have nothing to do with what to investigate other than information from one person outside of town who says that there may be something new here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u101	V.E.G. President. It is true that the Council or the Council Committee does not have the information cited here and has not seen them. It is my opinion that this sort of study can reveal whether there is actually a new evidence involved. It will then be evaluated when the information is available whether it will change in any way that we have the picture of the event. I wanted to say, however, that it is quite right. paritaprevir In his speech, Vigdís Hauksdóttir mentioned that we have been in a sort of trouble with the 2012 Parliamentary arrangement. In fact, there are two factors that have caused the matter to be delayed. On the one hand, that proposal was rather poorly proposed and not very clear about factors that were to be identified beyond those previously seen. Similarly, there was a need to set a clearer law frame on how both study materials and research arrangements were to be prepared. Well, that's been done. In fact, in this discussion, I would like to express the opinion that the new evidence referred to by the emissary of the Allegrinist's agent and is the basis for the proposal that we are here to shed some new light on the sequence of events, I believe that this means that we are largely, if not all, have emptied what was incomplete or unclear regarding the privacy of the first. So reiterate my position that I believe that there is every reason to go over the privatization of the second and to back it up. þm. Vigdís Hauksdóttir in that subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u102	A respectable president. I thank you for the answer, and thank you very much for your declaration of support, to get a clear support statement to study the privatization of the second bank. This is very important. These were the predators of research committees I referred to earlier. One cost more than 700 million, that was the NTSB on the savings account. This led to the results of the research work being undertaken at a meeting of the Commission and monitoring committee a few days ago or a few weeks ago. It revealed that the loss of the State in rebuilding the savings fund was 32 billion - thirty - two thousand million. There's large amounts and it would be worth a board of administration and monitoring to further investigate how it could happen and how this loss was brought over the state funds. But then some buttercup is created, and a board of administrations makes up a new case from 13 years of age. Also, I don't think it's appropriate for the National Assembly of Iceland to initiate a study in an old case based on the comments of one man and the U.S. Marshal's office to bring it to the Commission and Control Committee, which decided at one of their meetings to start an investigation. When investigating, it has to be a means of preconceiving that something wrong has occurred. This is where no one knows what to do, which is ancient, and there's a mystery who makes the suggestion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u103	A respectable president. I want it to come back to me again for the President's conference board that I was not excited to accept my synopsis proposal to study the private development of banks for a discussion at the council tomorrow, as mentioned because it was not discussed with this proposal tonight, which was taken up for the rest of the program. However, I reiterate to the president that I have considered the matter and will accept the offer that the investigation of the privateization of the banks, the second, will be on the agenda tomorrow, and I will have more history on that basis and for the proposal at which the case is scheduled.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u104	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to have many words, but they're saying that you have to deal with it, you're going to have to keep your mouth shut. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has moved here, and he comes out of his best way to talk about pimp speeches.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u105	A respectable president. This is the program for President's conference board, and I was primarily explaining how I saw the progress of this case. Hv. paritaprevir Ögmundur the son of Jónasson could, as a law would expect, answer me after my speech, instead of throwing his temper at this part of the program. It is not new that this part of the program should be reserved, and I keep in mind that the investigation of the private development of the banks, the second, will be tomorrow, and I will have history in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u106	The president will see to it that this matter is being planned and will put it into practice that the matter can be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u107	A respectable president. I recommend the opinion of the Economic and Business Commission with a change in bill proposal to correct the change in various laws to support funding and the management of innovation enterprises and smaller growing enterprises. The committee received 19 reviews and memos, and the committee was contacted by a representative of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Society of Professional Drivers, Adrari hf., the Association of Professional Life, the Association of Industrial Affairs, Copenhagen, Marel, head of state tax, Iceland's New World Council, Iceland's New Creation Centre, the Allied Association of Iceland, CCP, Iceland's Office, and the Tryggvi Hjaltason. The bill includes changes in individual and company taxation. The main changes turn to taxation rights, tax reimbursement to foreign experts, withdrawals from the research and development costs of innovation companies and tax returns due to stock markets, as those who invest in partnerships or growing solely share groups may be able to enjoy from income tax stock stocks as well as capital gains. The aims of the changes include to improve the competitiveness of Icelandic enterprises, as well as to support innovation and development of those that can be achieved, e.g. telaprevir/ritonavir. Comments received by the committee and found on the subject revealed a positive view of the bill, as well as some indications that the committee might consider appropriate for a closer look at. So the committee suggests some adjustments to meet these indications. I'll trace the mains and reasons for them, but the committee's opinion and the changes can be found on panels. 1382, and I refer to that otherwise. In the 9th. a law on income taxes is discussed on taxation of stocks obtained by an employee in the prenup for another person's work. If an employee gets to buy the stocks under price, he should tax the difference as a salary when he buys them. In 1st. The bill suggests that this taxation will be postponed until the stocks are sold and that the difference in salary and price prices is considered to be payable but, of course, an increase above the tax paid. The reviews and meetings of the Committee provided a view that there may be a problem in the process of taxing the above differences as remuneration, and that it may be a taxpayer. It was noted that it would be a very burdensome change to tax the stock market as pay instead of taxing it as capital pay. The committee suggests an adjustment in the arrangement to meet an earlier viewpoint. It is suggested that, instead of paying, payment comes to taxation when the retailor is suspended until the stocks are sold. The inexpensive price available in the use of the premium is then considered to be for foundation price on later sales and profits from the sale, thus counted as a financial gain in the hands of an employee when selling the stocks. The suggestion involves the intention of righting the rights of the court is not required to pay income tax for its innuendo, but when it is sold. To make this clear, it is suggested that the employee be given the prenup to so - called standard prices is the difference in taxation as payable but only when the funds are later sold. Taxation of variable bonds is subject to Article 2. The bill. It suggests that the profits of an individual on the basis of a business with a variable bond converted into stocks at a lower price than the market value of the letters are considered taxable when selling the stocks. In order to make clear, the committee suggests a slight change in wording of the provision so that it is clear that it applies to individuals outside the workplace. With a factor of 3. The bill is presented as a deduction of foreign experts hired in the country so that only 75% of their income will be taxable, 25% will be tax-free, and the exception of local standards for the first three years of working to meet certain conditions. A similar arrangement is available in our neighboring countries. The committee received a series of reviews that specifically welcomed this document. However, several observers point out that there are problems with the source, especially with regard to the definition of a foreign expert, not always limited to education, and other means of education, e.g. ... basedon income. There is a lack of a variety of industrialized people here and therefore wonder whether such traders could conform to the definition of foreign experts. The Commission feels that in some cases individual industrialists may have expertise that will agree with the conditions set by the Regulation, thus counting on the law. The committee considers regulations 3rd. The bill may be useful in attracting foreign experts to national work, especially in technical and research companies and the university community. In Comb 4. The bill is a tax charge due to the stock market, and according to it, individuals and companies must meet certain conditions in order to be able to use a new source. The committee made a comment on 1st mg. Section 4. and proposal to increase the extraction rate from 30% to 100% of the first 3,000,000 k, but the bill notes that Sweden has a 50% extraction ratio and may reach up to 41% in Ireland. The committee suggests the change that the deduction rate will be 50%. The bill suggests that the proportion is calculated from an investment in stock increase of up to 10,000,000. each year, the committee does not change that amount. For 2 mg, see Figure 1. Section 4. it is a law that minimum investment should be 500,000. to enjoy indiscriminateness. The bottom line is that there is a risk investor that is more suitable for those who invest in a number of ways. However, the committee received a review of the desirable reduction to a minimum of 250,000. so more people would have the advantage of investing in this way, and they could also argue that the minimum would result in investing more money than they would have done, thus taking greater risks. The committee proposes a minimum drop to 300,000 dollars. A comment is made under the terms of Article 4. Section 4. ... thata unioncannot be registered in the stock market. According to one authority, the group population rules that the bill is based on are not excluded from investments in unions registered in the market of financiers. The Commission does not consider it necessary to go beyond the Regulation and therefore suggest that, in place of the stock market, it be referred to as an organized stock market. Number 5 3mg. Section 4. it is conditioned that a company cannot have been on the market for more than four years since its first commercial sale. The committee received indications that in the above Regulation, seven years would even allow longer periods of time for certain conditions to be fulfilled. It also shows that sales for business purposes do not include limited sales that take place during the product development period before public sales start. The committee feels that it is right to respond to these tips and suggests that four - year - olds will be replaced by seven years of age. It's number 12 3.mg. Section 4. it says that prior to the development of part-growing and yearly thereafter a partner should receive confirmation of the government tax authorities, all of the conditions 2.mg. and 3 mg. the law is fulfilled. The Commission believes that this expression may be too difficult to implement and suggests 2 mg. ... isdiedout. Seven. The bill is suggested that current taxes to innovation companies be greatly increased. Two changes are proposed, one of the maximum study and development costs for general reference of recovery increase from 100,000,000 k. of 300,000,000. and, however, to maximise the study and development cost for reference recovery increases from 150,000,000 per cent. of 450,000,000. in the case of precipitating research and development services from unauthorized companies, universities or research institutions. Advertisers welcome these plans of the bill and believe that the change is an important step in the government's efforts to increase support and further research in the development of technology in Iceland. Even so, several commentators feel that the bill should go even further by removing the roof of the reimbursement so that the country will become more competitive in the international market. Clearly, in the bill there is a threefold increase in tax recovery for innovation companies. This intensification is supported by the funding and management of innovation companies and smaller growing enterprises to a far greater extent than previously have been done. A reimbursement of a roof on the reimbursement would be of more benefit to companies from a period of growth that are registered in the market. However, this is not the goal of the bill. It is to increase support and further research on the development of smaller companies in Iceland. So the committee does not suggest a change in these aspects of the bill, but it does require that when more experience becomes available, a review of the subject will be made, possibly increasing in increments. Under the committee's view, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter Valgerður Bjarnadóttir and Guðmundur Steingrímsson write in advance, which they will explain afterward. Anna Sævarsdóttir, who was absent from the case, agrees with 4 mg. 18th par. The Council of Regular Affairs. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes and warnings presented on the Senate document. Under the heading of May 30th. Andersen, Willum Þór Níelsson Thor Þórsson, and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. Named members of Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u108	Madam President. I think it's quite safe to say that in the Economic and Business Committee, there was a general approval towards this case, which attracts a change in various laws to support the funding and management of innovation companies and smaller enterprises in growth, as mentioned in the title of the bill. The bad guy we've been through. Senators Bjarnadóttir and Guðmundur Steingrímsson publications here are particularly influenced by the defects we consider in the production of this bill, that it does not look for a positive definition of a new creation company. Instead, the goal is to define from research and development funds, smaller growing companies, and then to list what activities do not depend on the directive. It is listed in a number of teams, such as a business with real estate, a business that involves renting real estate or financial resources, holding partner activities, investment partner activities, monitoring activities of parties according to Article 5. legal on cost-of-the-art financial control No. 99/1999 activities involving advanced services and advice from specialists, film production activities, activities consisting of man-made activities and the maintenance of human activities, activities related to the investment and/or operation of hotels, hotels and restaurants, services of export and import products produced and developed by others and activities of any form of mining. This is based on certain financial boundaries and conditions, and then companies are excluded in certain sectors. I think I'm moved to draw attention to the fact that we were made by these statements to form the union of the industry that there is an unmistakably new enterprise defined by traditional ideas as they have been defined. They specifically mentioned filmmaking in their cover story. We know that probably the reason why film production is not here is because it has a different kind of support that I think has even been here for today's discussion, reimbursement for the cost of filmmaking. This shows the problem that created, and the foreword that the three of us wrote under this definition. We have an excellent definition of innovation companies. The warning is as follows, with the permission of the president: ▪ In accordance with ESA guidelines, it is easy to use a positive definition of the innovation company (SAA) as the EFTA monitoring agency and its opinion is about ensuring that there is no ban state assistance --◯en it is defined as an enterprise: a) that can demonstrate, by the assessment carried out by an external expert, that it will in the expected future develop products, services, or procedures that are new or significantly improved compared to what is best done in the sector and that are at risk of a technical or professional failure, or b) where research and development costs are at least. 10% of total cost of at least one year out of three prior to helping or, in the case of a sceptical company and there is no full-cut account, in review of the current accounting period as determined by an external accountant. It would have been more reasonable to use such a positive definition, so the aim of the law, which is to be expected to promote innovation and knowledge industry, was fully successful instead of using the method of excluding certain sectors that should still be available within the innovation concept. This is the foreword we all write. So I'm just speaking to myself, I completely realize that applying such a positive definition would likely have called for a greater review of a supporting environment in a innovation firm. I mentioned an example of the filmmaking, and I just say, "What about it? Is it not good, then, that we make time and resources? I requested the implementation of the Committee that we receive an overview from the Ministry on how these matters were conducted in our neighboring countries, whether the government followed the general ESA definition, or whether this was done in a negative way. The answers to them were merely that they were doing in Ireland. It came, for example. I have no comment on how this is done in other parts of the North, so I'm going to make a comment about it. I believe that it is actually done to speed things up and to avoid having to cross this support environment of innovation, which is, however, a full need to be done. This is a field I believe the future of this nation depends on many things, i.e. how we are in his presence. Therefore, even though I do not feel that it is working well in this regard, I support the whole issue. A technical and mental industry is providing this national preparations for about one year. 22% of the nation's currency income. It's under different sectors. We can talk about data studios, bio-fiction companies, movie productions and information technology companies, all kinds of companies. I can specifically mention the game industry, which has become the fastest industry in the north. When the Norse Organization of the Film Actors was formed here in 2012, their roll was approximately Sixty billion if I remember correctly. It was about 350 companies, including 5,000 staff. This has grown fast since, and as I say, this is the most growing industry in the North countries, no wonder, for the number of people who play video games every day is about One billion. Even in the midst of difficult circumstances, these Icelandic companies have been successful since collapse. Of course, we should help us to be responsible for this sector, which is also important in terms of environmental considerations. This is where we shift our work structure from the traditional raw industry with the related energy efficient sector, which is more dependent on knowledge, although, of course, there is also the energy industry like the data plant. As a result, I support that we make changes here to make life easier for these companies in terms of research and development costs, but I don't understand the premise of starting an attack on a positive definition of the innovation environment. I agree with the review of the Industrial Association, which points to the exact point of its review. I believe that if it had been more time to look into this matter, we wouldn't have gone that way. I'm sorry, but I think that this negative definition can lead to a question about when these enterprises are inside or outside, under the definition. It is probable that there will also be some who point out that what is impossible there is still a innovation. I think we're making trouble by going this quick and having liked to see a positive approach to this case from the beginning. As I say, these material priorities involve the basic elements of the bill discussed here. Nevertheless, we support the changes proposed in the bill as well as the changes proposed by the committee. I believe they were well reviewed in the review of the Economic and Business Committee. I realize that it is more important to go to the basic change we are asking for in advance than to think that it would have been better for the Ministry to accept that approach from the beginning. I also have to say that I don't like it when members of the council ask for information from the executives to be very often limited, as in this case in which a particular summary of how this is happening elsewhere is requested. The answers are nothing, they're like this in one country, that it's the country we used as a model, and that we didn't look anywhere else. Of course, there's nothing that the General should have to accept, so I'll just say it. Mrs. President, I don't think this is really an acceptable answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u109	President. I believe that there is good reason to rejoice that this bill is so far as it really is. This has been done for many years. We're on the right track, we're taking a break, and there's a chance that this bill will be revised and reassessed in a very short time. When I was a girl, I remember that the adults were always talking about supporting my job, I think that's what they said. This is just one of the most important aids that we have not seen before in recent years; it is what is called the 'Tarnits. " After counting the travel services, the fishing grounds, the aluminium industry, and that in the national income cake, it's suddenly seen, you might say, a pretty good piece of something that's over there. With this legislation, we are paying the price for investing in small companies that are involved in research and development and that they get workers, experts they need; experts we may not have enough of here and will enrich our career and university life where this is expected to bring about such activities as well. All who came to the Committee to give their opinion or review were very positive about this, and almost many were happy. ASI was worried, and I'm going to read what it says, with the permission of a president: It is the ASI assessment that since material benefits are being made up for a defined group of people beyond others, it is appropriate that material standards exist that are most precise in the Council's Law rather than that ministers are given room for Regulation...•27 In part, I agree with the view that it may be bad to give too many regulations to the Commission. However, I believe and will trust that the European Commission will do well with this strategy, keeping it safe to say that if there is any doubt, it will return to the Council but will not extend too far into the Regulation in these matters, rather than in others. We in the United States support all the proposed changes and I think they're good. They're generally in order for the bill to reach more than at the beginning, so I think it's good. We are three people who sign a warning at the bill related to which companies can enjoy the rules of the bill. The lead is that these companies are precisely defined. Now, the ESA's monitoring agency has issued a regulation that can be taken up and inserted into such a bill, so there is no bike that needs to be invented, it can be cut out of the text and taped into the bill. As Katrín Jakobsdóttir told me before, this is the difference between definition of these companies positive or negative, i.e. to put the box on which companies can enjoy it. She read our warning and Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son, and I see no reason to repeat that reading. However, I would like to read from the previous text to page 12, page 4. and a work that doesn't depend on this law. It's a business involving real estate, a job that involves rent-exploited real estate, property union activities, investment union activities; it's from a team to the k- team. A respectable president. How does it work out? Yes, they sit around and say: "What do you think? No, we do not have the film industry because we can strengthen it elsewhere. We have business with hotel investments and hotels and restaurants and restaurants. I'm asking why? Could it not be that some innovation is in it? Why not? At any small hotel or place in a country that may be developing or working with Icelandic materials, or what do I know? No, they're sitting around the table saying, "No, there's so much growth in tourism, and there's so much business in hotel business and rooming, so we'll take it out. That's the way it's decided, just like that. It is a completely different approach than the precise definition in the bill text of which they have to be and what they have to do, what the requirements are for an enterprise to have the rules of this law code. There is no reason to, most respected president, to be extending this speech and extending this discussion. The important thing is this: It has been done for many years, and how happy it is that this law is now being fulfilled! I'm glad that the boundary was cleared, so it's likely to come to more companies than the bill originally expected. One condition, i.e. That the employees of this company can be no more than 25, I don't understand, a respectable president. Why not 24? Why not 30? I think for this very reason and for other reasons the company's conditions won't be long -- and I really hope it will be that way - until these regulations, which we hopefully agree to in the coming days, are reviewed. Then I also hope that people will set aside their work to define in a positive way what the company needs to meet to enjoy what is presented here, not that people sit around and say, "Yes, let's not have this, and let's not have it. " That's what I'm doing. That's what I'm doing. That's what I'm doing. That's what I'm talking about. But once again: It is a pleasure to see that the matter has come as far as it really is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u110	Madam President. I'm going to enter this matter briefly and have to describe my joy with it. I think we shall see the matter in a variety of ways to the future. The subject of the bill and the work of the Committee is referred to as the aim of improving the competitiveness of Icelandic enterprises as well as supporting innovation and development of those at hand, e.g. telaprevir/ritonavir. This refers to a change in taxation of individuals, a tax appeal to foreign experts, a deduction for the research and development costs of innovation companies, and a tax charge for stock markets. The reason I made a note is at the top. The minister of finance compared this in the discussion today to the tax paradise because we were here to match what he had done with what has taken place there. I thought it was a very special approach, not to the point of the year. It's perhaps in the spirit of that one when we speak of Iceland as a tax paradise. This, however, is not in a closed country or on a closed islands. There are regulations and sources that require giving up all things, but when it comes to deportations, such a rule is not readily available. I felt I had to come up here and discuss it a little bit. But I'm in favor of this bill, and I think it's wise to try in the situations that it applies - this may be a narrow meaning - the foreign experts that have to come here because there is a lack of them or there is no knowledge or there is no such thing. At least I'll look. That's what it's all about, and that's how it's understood. So I think it's okay to drag them out of the traditional tax end. But on page 18. 3 is referred to as tax extracts, i.e. when people come to the country and have time, more than three months, to enter the specified data to get tax appeal. If this happens after that time, the employer will need a standard payment on the entire budget, not just 75%. It's also talking about payment for pension funds, that there could be some deposit and difference, and something like that. This is a review of a financial and economic memo that states that the Ministry is prepared to consider that indication. There is also a chance to correct the individual's standard pay return as soon as an application is accepted. There's always a bit of bix when the tax has to be corrected back in time, I don't talk about when pension money and other things are in, so I feel like I'm making something that doesn't have to be, i.e. that this time, three months, is a happy one. I think it would be more reasonable not to have it, that when the person comes to the country, it would just be ready so that this sort of bix doesn't have to happen. Other than that, I just like it, and it's a pleasure to be increased the deduction and standards and other factors, allowing more companies into research and development, and to be expected to promote our community and make it even more fruitful. But I agree with the definition of my share of the Committee. We should do more because we approach things in a positive way rather than leave them in a negative way. It is so simple to change it, but unfortunately, laws are often written in a way that they go out of negative approach instead of positive ones, i.e. what is forbidden and all of it, instead of having a positive approach as suggested here. I think it's a shame the committee hasn't decided to turn it in that direction. But that's all I was going to say, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u111	V.E.G. President. The Environment and Transport Committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by guests and received comments from both the sector and the trade and service organizations. The above article discusses some of the issues and history involved. This is to establish the basis for the implementation of the European Parliament's Directive and the Council on harmonization of Member States' legislation on the protection and equipment intended for the use of potentially explosive air. An older directive was issued by a Regulation on the basis of State Electricity Control Act, but the court now considers that the Directive will be implemented on the basis of burn prevention legislation. The commission states that the directive set out basic requirements to be met according to the high level of explosives in the situation. It is assumed that the Enforcement Agency will supervise the actions of the law and opinions on the basis of them, but may assign that assignment to a professional laboratory. It is recommended that the secretary set out in the Regulation the specific products required for burn safety in the bill. The comments of the Association of Business and Service on the state of professional values in the country. In its Committee of Environment and Transport, the Committee says that it has previously received similar statements from the organization and agrees with them that in many areas a pot appears to be broken in the category where the Icelandic professional authorities have not passed through a so-called equal estimate as expected in European rules. In the short term, the Environment and Transport Committee submits to these comments, as this problem has created national costs and challenges, since they have had to consult non-neighbourg parties on the basis of sectoral prognosis. The committee claims that matters of professional interest are important and that there is a need for financial support. The committee suggests only one change in values presented in the Committee. Under the committee of this magazine, and this is Höskuldur, the son of Þórhallsson, daughter of Katrín, the daughter of Júlíusdóttir, Einarsson, Elín Hirst, the Svandís of Zoghis, the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Aarna.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u112	V.E.G. President. These are issues that have been used by the Environment and Transport Committee for the treatment and safety of electricians, consumers and electricians. The committee considers visiting visits to the Committee on this issue and the reviews received by the Committee by the Organization of Professional Sciences, Business Association, and Service, and Sigurður Stefán Ólafsson. The bill is moved to prepare the European Commission's Directive for harmonisation of EU Member States' legislation on the marketing of electrics used within certain tensions, where it discusses basic requirements for electrical recovery and the requirements for adequate electromagnetic harmonization of products that meet the directives. These directives replace the older directives, which have been introduced into Icelandic legislation by regulations based on the laws on the safety of electricians, consumers and electricians. The directives include a marketing monitoring carried out by the Agency but can also assign a professional testing agency to test products and assess if they comply with the laws of the law. In particular, the Commission notes that the bill makes it clear in the law that high-voltage lines are not to be placed in the air over an apartment building, a job house, other buildings, sports and outdoor areas. There is also a ban on building such buildings under high - power lines. To date, construction has been prohibited under such lines, where one area of holiness is located around them. However, the ban has not been very clear, since it has, in some respects, been hidden within technical regulations. In view of the legal security and safety of the city, it must be assumed that the prohibition of the law is clearly stated. The committee made comments on the situation in the country of trade and employment. Substitute the Commission and refer to the Commission's opinion of bill to correct a change in burn prevention law. In this case, a suggestion for taking effect is comparable to that given in the previous language that I explained earlier. Þórhallsson's palace was absent from the case, but he signed this opinion under warrant in 4 mgr. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Ásta Helgadóttir Helgagótttir and Róbert Marshall were absent from the case, but under the opinion of literature and the above is Höskuldur Þórhallsson, daughter of Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Einarsson, Elín Hirst, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur, the Árnason of Aarnas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u113	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the National Committee's Committee on Elements to legalize the legislation on the European Economic Area, No. 2/? 1993, with subsequent changes, to the European Economic Building Fund, EEA, 2014,2021. The committee has discussed the matter and has contacted its representatives in the Ministry of State. Then came the commission alone, from the unions of companies in the fishing grounds. The bill suggests a change in the European Economic Area law, No. 2/1993, allowing a validated agreement between the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway to be agreed on by the European Union budget (EEC) in 2014 December 2021. The Treaty means that the EEA countries within EFTA pay contributions to the EEA's Building Fund for the next seven years, but the fund has the goal of reducing economic and social differences in the European Economic Areas and building up links to the energy sector. The 15 cognants are Bulgaria, Estonia, Greece, Croatia, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Czech Republic, and Hungary. Iceland's entire budget under contract is 7 billion. and take annual payments for the financial needs of projects in the Member States. This is over a 11% increase in donations from the previous contract, which is only under prices during the last five years in Iceland. The Commission showed that Iceland pays about 3% of the total productions in the Upbuilding Fund, while Norway has the highest costs, as the switch is made on the basis of EU/EFTA GDP. This has resulted in a five - year contract on the House Building Fund, which is now made up for seven years. Along with negotiations for the Building Fund, toll free import equipment was negotiated for marine products. This time the European Union, the European Union, or a total of 1,000 tons of lobster, which was 520 tons, 2,000 tons of fresh or cooled carfraffes, which was 750 tons, 950 tons of intact herb, unchanged, and then produced by some 2,500 tons of dead liver, a new quota. The Committee suggested the importance of achieving the full legal freedom of the European Union, the European Union, the European Union. The commission points out that there was a large increase in customs in relation to previous agreements. The Commission also points out that the scope and number of projects with Icelandic colleagues have been considerably over the percentage of the contribution from Iceland to the Upbuilding Fund. The Commission claims that there is no reason to believe that only the Icelandic institutions will continue to run and participate in projects that can attend the Building Fund. The committee proposes that the case be accepted. Hv. Karl Garðarsson's members, Frosti Sigurjónsson and Össur Skarphéðinsson were absent from the case. Elín Hirst was also absent, but literature was considered to be in accordance with 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. This was approved at the Council of 26 May 2016. Under the committee's opinion, publications are written in the following languages. Councilmen: Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, prominent member of the Committee of the Committee, Elín Hirst, Óttarr Proppé, Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir, and Steinunn Þóra, the Árnadóttir of the Year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u114	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a board of members with a bill-changing proposal to legalize various legislations for a new Forest Service to co-operate the institutions. The Commission has discussed the situation and has received its meeting Sigríður Svana Sælda Helgadóttir and Björn Helgi Barkarson from the Environment and Resource Ministry, Þröstur Eysteinsson and Júlía Brynleifsdóttir from the Hrönn Guðmundsdóttir of the National Institutes of Woodengors. The commission received a review of the case from the National Institutes of Farmers of Iceland, the Society of Forests in the East, the Society of Woodland Parks in the South, the State's Rentation, National Institutes of Forests, Land Protection, Iceland's Naturalist Institutes, the Pétursson, the Guðmundur of the Aðalsteinsson Þorsteinn and the joint reference from the Forest, the Shire and the East, the Southland Forests, the Savourous Forests, and the Westland Forests. The bill suggests the government's forestry work, i.e. The forestry of the state and its parts in forestry, united under one institution, the forest industry. The bill is based on proposals made by a panel that produced the Environment and Resource Minister for Reporting in September. ... wheretheculture of the stocks was proposed. Comments to the bill show that together the group management will be simpler and stronger; the implementation of forestry policies will become simpler and a multi-communicational effect will arise for counselling, training and introduction, and development and monitoring. There are minimal changes in the law to implement the integration, but the Environmental and Resource Ministry is now working on a global review of forestry laws. This bill, therefore, does not contain any other changes to the physical laws of the law. The Commission suggests that work on reevaluation of forestry and land - healing laws will be accelerated and that the right to follow this ecosystem approach as a new protection law, No. 60/2013, of which November 15 was based, closed to a close bond between them and the above law columns. The Commission reviewed that key stakeholders follow the bill and that good consultation had been made in preparation for it. In view of the facts, the committee considers a few points to be considered. In the 3rd. The bill is submitted to a change in Article 1. 6 / 15 Is God a God Who Is My God? No. 95/2006. The latter part of the article has thus fallen away without the purpose of the bill culminating the forest's aims on a certain part of the country. So the committee suggests a change to allow the objective to remain in the law. Six. The bill is submitted to the change to Article 5. the legislation on national deforestation projects and agreed to consult the National Institute of Forest Owners on the decision of thresholds for reimbursement of approved costs. The Commission stresses the need for effective consultations and the experience of the implementation of the procedure will be assessed in an overall review of forestry laws. In 1 1. The bill discusses the legal status of the workers in the state of Forest and the personnel of national branch projects in forestry as a team. The State is a state agency and the rights of the Agency's employees together are subject to laws on the rights and duties of the personnel of the State, No. 70/1996. In some cases, however, individual workers in the national parts of the network may have a different recruitment form and therefore agree to the legislation on the rights of employees to involved in enterprises, No. 72/2002. Please refer to the law to make sure that employees do not lose their rights in some way to the union. In recent years the development of the Kingdom has increased the implementation of tree products as well as the oversight of forest land and other projects, not of its own forests, but of the development of forestry in this respect. will be determined by the way forestry of its own crops will develop. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: In paragraph 3. Add to the new language, as follows: In each part of the country, forest development should take place in at least 5% of the area of lowland below 400 m above sea level. Hv. Councilmen Haraldur Einarsson, Birgir of the Ármannsson, and Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir were absent from the case. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " The members of the assembly, Höskuldur the son of Þórhallsson, president and spokesman, Katrín the daughter of Júlíusdóttir, Elín Hirst, Svandís the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, Róbert Marshall, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Aarna. As I came into my review of the Commission's opinion on the bill for the adjustment of various laws by a new deforestation agency, the Commission feels that work is required to reevaluate deforestation and land - healing laws will be accelerated and that the right to adhere to this ecosystem approach as a new protection law, No. 60/2013, of which November 15 was based, closed to a close bond between them and the above law columns. I think it is also correct in this context to discuss the good and much agreement achieved on the environmental protection of the transport board. A fall. New laws on nature protection had long been bitter, not only for individual political parties, but also for various members of the community. After listening to all the reporters who wanted to appear before the committee, in fact, all who had something to say, after a long period of time managed to achieve a good deal of agreement about nature protection that I think would be a land and nation for improvement over the next few years's losses and years. As the tourism industry grows and grows, we see an enormous increase in the importance of nature. We still have work to do. We need to be careful about nature, and we need to take good care of it and make wise use of it. We were unable to cover all aspects of the earth. It is still unclear where we want to go. In fact, this discussion has changed dramatically in recent years with increasing tourist currents, where the common people demand to travel in the country, not just the areas of state - owned but also private property. At the same time, however, appeals are going to be great in these areas, and it is appropriate to explain the rules in that direction. I think we're taking a very good step here. Thank you very much. Environment and resource minister for her work. It's a case she's offered, and I think it's very good that we've taken the step of starting a new deforestation facility. I think it will be a benefit to this group in the years to come, and I hope that the light we provide in this committee will make it possible for a new deforestation agency to function and to be a worthy member of the group of paints. I propose that the case be agreed on at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u115	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate the arrival of this bill. ... and I can agree with most of what is mentioned in a committee study. However, I wondered, " Is it still strong in the committee's opinion on the emphasis on the effective advice of the wood industry and farmers? ' I think it is important to draw two kinds of agreements, on the one hand on financial and national agreements and on the other hand, on the focus and policy issues within the national parts of the country. Both I believe that it is important for the Agency and the farmers who are in charge of forest development on their own land. Six. The bill is submitted to the change to Article 5. the legislation on national deforestation projects and agreed to consult the National Institute of Forest Owners on the decision of thresholds for reimbursement of approved costs. The committee's opinion is that effective consultations must be discussed, that is important to me, as it is the financial basis for cooperation between forest prayer and forestry. The article also provides advice on consultation with areas of the forest in relevant areas for the focus and implementation of forestry laws. In the same way, it is important to have effective consultation, which is the basis for developing a common focus, policy and strategy in each part of the country. So I'd like to ask an authority if he can't agree, and if there's any reason to reiterate it here from a public speaker or with a secondary committee party that this study should be followed in the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u116	A respectable president. I thank Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir for your inquiry. I believe it is proper to stress that this discussion will be active. Sometimes you wonder if a member of a committee might say things in a way that will make you permanently ensure that what you want to do is done by the Committee. From now on, I can tell you that the committee stresses that effective consultations must be discussed. The committee then concluded that the work of the arrangement must be tested in a comprehensive review of forestry laws. Therefore, I hope that the advice offered by the committee will, in effect, be the opposite of the law. The senator pointed out, if not, and if not, it will likely be discussed when the overall review of forestry laws takes place.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u117	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you for your background, boy. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son for his answers. I can agree that it is only natural that experience in the implementation of the meeting will be determined by the overall review of forestry laws. But I would like to ask them if at the Committee's work, when the Allied Council can expect a bill for a total legal review. As important as it is for this bill to be presented, the success of forestry integration and development over the next few years is extremely important that a global review be made to continue the development of environmental protection and sustainable agriculture, which highlight the coordination of legislation on forestry, land healing, and nature protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u118	A respectable president. Because I was asked directly if it had happened to the committee: Yes, it was before the committee, and the members of the committee asked. But if I can provide a satisfying answer to the date of the total review of forestry laws, I'm not sure. But I can still confirm that it was claimed that the pipes had a full reexamination and that the Ministry had a job working to reconsider the law. There was no claim on the timing or when it might become. However, I read it from the Ministry's comments that they were very determined that this work could go very well and quickly for themselves, and without doubt. I couldn't understand them as different as they believed it would be very important that this review would take place sooner than later, especially in the light of the changes we're making here, the cohesion of the institutions, and the new forestry agency. Let us hope that from that answer, we can conclude that the overall review will be conducted sooner than later. I also sense in environmental ministers that she would have liked to have more time during this terms in order to complete it as well. Let's just see what's coming out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u119	Madam President. I'm just gonna come into this thing and thank you. A pilot for the story. I'm going to start with what was ended, but one of the points referred to at the council is that a general review of one or another, large metal groups, leads to the setting or not taking over certain matters. It is often because it is something that seems a little difficult to deal with. I think it's gonna clear up even if you know what I'm saying. In a review of deforestation, i.e. The forestry of the State and the national groups. It shows that there has been great and good consultations and that all of this is being done well. Then, when it comes to consultation with the forest prayer, they make comments. By permission of the president, a comment on 6. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: Today, in the management of each part of the country, the forest client's work is represented by the local forest prayer, and other members are designated by the Forest of the State and without a form. Since the project management will be put down in cooperation with forestry, it is important to create an open - minded area where forest farmers will be allowed to come up with the decisions and actions of the particular projects, as well as the role of forest owners in determining criteria for reimbursement of approved costs. The number of decisions being made is being reduced. That's why I understand the concern of the wood farmers who want to come into this discussion. Like what? paritaprevir The negative Anna Sævarsdóttir came in, which can be spoken more strongly and make this even clearer than it is here. What I was going to say before, and it says in the headings of a national body organization and the Forest Farmer is that they do not consider it a reason to form a further discussion in this text, but they say that it might be moved into a forestry law or directive when it comes to conversation. One thing we do all too much, I think, is that we place an enormous amount of regulations. I feel that the influence of wood farmers and their concerns is being minimized. As the rest of the reviews show, most people rejoice that this is happening, and I agree with it, but the conversation can be better. I think it would've had to. Commenting on the Southern Forest Farmers'Socialism, it is suggested that there is a small amount of inexpensive information about the management of a new institution and the appearance of a forest prayer, i.e. For the shape, planning, target and follow-up of the Agency's tasks. I can agree with that. I think the lyrics might make it clearer. It is also considered that the need for attention is given in the debate that projects are being combined in a new institution, not to take over. There are others who come in on conversation and consultation. The forest - owner national groups do the same, and they want to speak out more readily than here. I think it should be taken into consideration. There is now a government of three men in the United States, and it is one of the Society of forest farmers. Work and budgets and all of this, but also in the areas. I think it is possible to change and speak a lot of words by creating an after - committee opinion and thus respond to that view. What I'd also like to say is that by promoting the role of a professional council, it's possible for the wood court to make a decision about deforestation. Now I don't know ten how this works today, but I think they've seen a reason to point out that it's too hard to resist the fact that only three people in this board are expected to be promoted in this way. It suggests that this proposal would create a better balance between the forest industry and the forest farmers, i.e. if the National Association receives representatives of national parts and then they represent two representatives against two representatives of the Forest Service, one from Iceland's Wooden Society, one from the National Agriculture University, and one from the Ministry. It is often a matter of trust in what is being done and of feeling that no one is found guilty and overwhelmed. Despite a very positive tone from most people, this is a concern. I've made it a business of employees to talk about things we've been discussing lately. The Committee considers the Forest as a state agency and the rights of the Agency's workers to be valid, despite the fact that individual employees have a different form of recruitment. Perhaps I should have asked an incontrovert if there would be a significant decrease in that context. It has not been observed whether there is a significant decrease in the number of workers combined and whether those who had this job and who wished to continue the job have been offered, since it seems to be suggested here. A respectable president. I didn't mean to keep it any further. I just wanted to come into this business. It's a positive thing, but here are baits that can be removed if you want to, even in a simple afterlife party, that need to be made as difficult as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u120	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend this committee party, but this is a matter of establishing a three-man administration committee to monitor police activities. The motion is rooted in a committee established by a minister and made suggestions. In general, it was a very positive case, and it is the Commission's assessment that there is a need for legal reform that increases the security of the citizens, as it is important that there are clear rules about the right of the public to pronounce complaints or charges about police work and expeditation and transparent processes. We make a few adjustments, first of all, to 1st. The bill will be removed. Then there are two adjustments in the definition. In the case of the visitors, it was observed that any job involved could be more clearly defined. Well, apparently, the one that stands here is signing. Senators Vilhjálmur Árnason and Þorvarðardóttir Þörvarddóttir were absent from the case, but they still write under the authority of Congress. Then sign what? Councilmen Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Einarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, and the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son in advance it is clear that the senator thought he could go further than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u121	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for the bill to correct the changing of various laws due to a agreement between state and rural society on the support of music studies and the equation on the status of students for music study (the time of temporary rules etc.)), of the greater part of the Risk Management Board, i.e. The one standing here. Senators Anna Sævarsdóttir, Haraldur Einarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason. However, this is a matter rooted in the signing of a contract between the state and rural society for the support of music in April. The meeting routine involves the equality of students for music study. The bill is largely consistent with the nominees that became the law of the past on the basis of an earlier agreement between the same parties from 2011. Then, in 2014, the law was adopted and other laws accepted, and in 2015, new laws were set up with the same name. The value time is longer for the agreement signed in April than for 2011, which includes several new features. The point is that transporters suggest a change in several laws in order to maintain the agreement. The agreement shows that the state funds should provide annual funding for the branch funds to be paid to teach costs, including the pressures for management costs, etc. On the contrary to the commitment of rural society to temporarily accept certain government projects, the bill goes on, establishing that it is permitted to transfer these funds. We're about to get a shot of relief from rural development of 230 million. K. annual contribution to the agreement in support of music studies and the equality of students. Tasks other than those mentioned in the bill, temporarily funded by the rural community, do not require changes in special requirements. At the same time, the financial resources of rural society pay expenses for the expenses of the local community. We're getting a shot of relief under the source of an equation fund. This is the same or comparable work that rural society has had since 2011 at the agreement it was then made. The legalisation of this bill will not be seen to bring in expenses for the state funds, but it can be expected that there will be any positive social impact. It is estimated that students in high school play and song students in middle and high school can pursue music studies regardless of where they are enrolled in a legal home and are contributed to the State's payment on the music program. Everyone knows that there has been considerable controversy in the way the agreement should be interpreted since 2011, but there are hopes to agree from April 13 onward. This agreement has been emphasized, and it has been emphasized to prevent such conflict. The agreement shows that this does not include changes in the Kingdom and rural activities and that the government's financial support is independent of the expenses of a community due to music school and does not change accordingly. A country society's choice to increase the educational capacity beyond the intervention of rural funds carries the additional cost itself. This is a change in the law on financial support for music schools. It is a change in study data laws, a change in basic school laws, and a change in income - stock laws. We hope that the matter will become a course in the council, but we in the General Commission were asked to deliver the case here because of the closeness of the council, and the need to restore a cure under the authority of an equation fund to collect and assign funds to the agreement's work. During the preparation of this case, we received visitors on the Ministry Committee, the European Union of Iceland, Reykjavíkurburg, the largest member society in this case, and a representative of the music schools to review the situation. I realize that it is not a good example to have a case in this way, but it is still important to accept this request in view that otherwise it is not possible to accept the agreement and stick to the commitments it has made to the rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u122	Madam President. It wasn't the highest. A minister of education who stood in that chair just a year ago promising that he would never again pray. The General and Education Committee to deliver such a bill? It wasn't the highest. A minister of education who swore to his own political future and honor that he would end this case so that it would never again be necessary for him to make such an issue a matter out of temporal ignorance? As far as I can remember, the chairman of the Committee himself spoke very strongly of how unattractive it would be to work in this way. Is that the way it is? A minister of education can take the council hostage and say, "If you don't make this issue, is there a problem with the locals? That's what seems to be here. I can't say anything else, Madam President, but I'm shocked that this is the third year in a series of cases like this. I'm shocked that the Allied will be offered such an offer. I also pronounce the highest. Minister of Education, where is he when we are discussing such a case? In exactly the same situation, he promised that before the end of the next year, he would give us a bill that would keep the plans for the future. V.E.G. Then a minister said that the bill was almost ready. It would appear in the months to come. I'm asking why. Unnur Of the Brá of Konráðsdóttir, Is all this nonsense with the minister? Where the hell is he? Let me recall that it was the Speaker of the Independence Party who, last year, almost by means of a couple of the Ministers to the council to explain this matter. I demand that the Independence Party get back to that same minister and let him explain his point again.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u123	V.E.G. President. To inform us of where the minister is, he has been visiting his colleagues in the Faeroe Islands, the minister of education there. I suppose he'll be here at the council, but the president may be able to answer better if and when the minister will be here to have a conversation. Senators. Yes, I had a very big reputation that this was not the way things were going. However, we are in a position to arrive at the end of Congress and not to have a legal basis established for the arrangements necessary to submit to the payment that should be paid from an equation fund and authority for an equation fund to collect against the communities in accordance with the agreement. It's the same thing since last year, except here's a new agreement signed on April 13. It seems that since the signing of the treaty, the case was not allowed or managed by standard means. When this request comes to the General and Education Committee, it is clear that we are not harmed by it. But sometimes you just have to do what is necessary, and in view of the situation, we represent the majority of the committee's members, the representatives of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u124	Madam President. It's not for the head of the General and Education Committee to blame, it's in a state of coal. You could say that the highest. The minister will take it both and the committee and the council hostage by acting in this way; it is not possible to invite the council to this sort of thing. It is informed here that the agreement was completed on April 13 and signed. It's been one and a half months. What has the highest. Minister? I don't think he's been in the Faeroe Islands all this time. I think it's a complete disrespect for the project and I say, "It's ridiculous that we're not going to finish this case at all. Ministers come and explain what he's doing in this department other than organizing visits to the Faeroe Islands when he's supposed to be here to represent him. I'll review his own words from last year. What's changed since last year is to the highest. At the same time, a minister promised us that he would finish making laws about this sect and told us that they were more and less ready for a bill form. It's completely absurd that the council will end this case with the Minister hanging in the Faeroe Islands. I ask, because we've talked about this many times before and the minister has had days here, that the discussion about this case will be postponed until the Supreme Court. Ministers back home, stand up for their case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u125	Madam President. I agree with a lot of things. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson said here last year. First of all, there is no reason. The official of the case, the president of the General and Education Committee, but of course, it beats a man strange that a deal was signed on April 13, 2016, that was six weeks ago. V.E.G. The minister does not mention this matter to any man at the council until the end of the last week, expecting them to do so. A top-of-the-art Board has a case that would have been totally predictable because we've talked about it before, often before. And it's absolutely accurate, as this has happened, to the highest degree. A minister then had a very good word that a full reexamination of music law was about to finish. There's been a special discussion here, including of the people standing here, at the highest. A minister where he's been inside after this, and it's always on the way. Now, apparently, this agreement is to be extended, which is primarily about national and rural operations to enable the agreement to be met in 2011. But as you read in the media, there will be no overall review of music education laws. But this has not been observed here at the council Hall. What we read about in the media is that there is a plan to start a new high school on music that may be a very good idea. That may be a good idea, but we just don't know anything about it, because we haven't heard of it and the highest. A minister has not seen why he would come here and explain his plans to the council. I'm just making a serious remark about it. The bill shows that there has been a consultation with certain parties, i.e. The Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, Internal Affairs, Astronomical Fund and the Union of Iceland. I ask: Have you talked to a music school, a music teacher? Have they been summoned by the committee? [[The president calls.]] What is their view of the future that we have. The senators call it here?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u126	V.E.G. President. This bill is written in the Ministry of Education, but before we agreed to this request, we presented the case, of course, if it was necessary to do so, and called our guests. We called our local representative, from the European Union, a representative of an equation fund, and accompanied by representatives from Reykjavíkurburg, the largest rural society involved in the fact that it was possible to shed only light on the part of Reykjavíkurburg in this matter; the greatest issue of the agreement since 2011 has been involved in this community. At the same time, we had a meeting with a member of the music school, but the meeting looked as if the bill wasn't there, we hadn't agreed to move it, but we were more trying to figure out what the situation was, etc. It was our conclusion after a discussion at the Committee that now in June, on committee days, we were going to the General and Education Committee to try to find out more about the situation and the other aspects of the agreement. We're just trying to get a little better with what needs to be done, but there's more of the deal that a General and Education Committee is interested in studying, e.g. the ideas of this new school as well. A senator mentioned. I hope we can get over it in the beginning of June to have a meeting like that. At the very least, everyone who checked us on this Friday afternoon was ready to go over the matter better with us later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u127	Madam President. Thank you. Konráðsdóttir From now UnnurBrá it's the reply of Conspiracydótttir. There's been a delay in the fact that the music schools have not been included, at least This bill does not work. Then I am witnessing to the formality of the music principal and music teacher. That is a thought - provoking point. When it comes to the future of music education, it is natural to do so. A top-of-the-art Board of Education knows exactly what that's been like. This is the case, it seems to be--and now I have to say once again, it seems to be like ◯ because I don't know anything about it unless what I've read in the media - plan to start a new school, that there may be a change in plans to set up a law frame on the music course, where these objects will be better explained as I understand it. I have no idea, it's very uncomfortable to stand here and discuss the same important matters in this fog. I wondered if representatives of the entire music school, principal and teacher society had any idea about this plan, whether it was part of a plan or not. Then I'm not testifying to what's on the bill here. I would have thought it normal for a minister to come to the council when he comes from the Faeroes and to give the council a report on other issues not only about these things but about this vision of the future we hear. I'm asking a respectable president to make sure that it will be checked before tomorrow's program, because it is difficult to do so. The General and Education Committee is here to settle matters without accepting something without having heard anything in the Minister's office, but that doesn't make any sense. Finally, I'd like to ask you why. A senator when she heard that it was expected that the committee would deliver this case, whether at the same time or not. Councilmen here end of last week but not immediately after the signing of this agreement on April 13, 2016. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u128	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying that I think it's a good idea and it's important to have a special discussion with the Minister of Education on the future on music issues. I think it would be very useful to try to arrange that in the days ahead. I have no doubt that the Minister is more than willing to take such a discussion here at the council, simply to consider this agreement better. Regarding who was called to do the bill, I have no confidence that I would speak to myself about it in any other way than what is stated in the text of the report. The report also shows that in the agreement the minister continues to prepare a new music school bill. So it comes out. The meetings are open on the Internet, on the website of the Union and the Ministry, so that you can learn about it and its contents. Regarding the time of the full committee's request to make this case, I don't quite trust to remember it; whether it was a week or ten days ago, but that's about the time. It was revealed in the media when the agreement was signed so that we knew that it must be followed by some proposals here at the council to bring a quick resolution to the points presented in the agreement. I reiterate that I believe that the Minister is more than willing to present a discussion with members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u129	Madam President. So I don't think that we're going to continue discussing this matter until we get to the highest level. Secretary of education is here for a meeting. He's got to stand up for his case. He must first explain how the agreement is made on April 13, then one and a half months later, and then he arrives at the council and the tortures of a universal and educational committee to present a bill on the grounds that there is no time left. You can't agree with this kind of work. It's totally unacceptable. Second, he also has to explain to the council how he has not lived up to what he declared in a discussion about exactly the same object a year ago, that he was in the load of a bill that was almost complete and would be set aside within a period of time for the entire music industry in the country. It won't hurt. Instead, it comes and this kind of work can't be tolerated. I'll do it at least. to reduce the requirement that this discussion be postponed until the highest level. A minister is either brought to the Faeroe Islands to drop this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u130	The president can inform the body of Congress that it is aware of its supreme potential. The Minister of Education is on his way to speak with members of Congress. [[Up front.]] He's on his way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u131	A respectable president. I thank the President for doing the highest part. The Minister of Education informs us that his presence is requested for the discussion that is the product of his hand and of his office records that are below all caves. Sadly, this is not the only example of best communication. A minister at the Council of the Council, who repeatedly insists that he avoid the efforts of even basic education changes in Iceland, with every option available to communicate with the General Assembly. Is it not difficult to remember when he with a column of clothes on a budget bill shut the colleges off for all 25 years of age and older? The same happened with abbreviated high school program, where he found himself in covert of things other than association with the General Assembly. All we have to do here is show up, a respectable president, to communicate with the highest degree. Ministers at the Council of the Government held last week began when the members of that council had received an e - mail frá the Godfulnason of Guðjón at the Union of Iceland, requesting that this case be paid a way, i.e. The other participant in town spoke to members of the government side before the Supreme Court. One minister saw himself forced to do so. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u132	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the members of the council who have spoken with this program on the President's meeting board before me, that it is quite impossible to continue with this discussion tonight without the highest level. The Minister of Education is here. As we have seen, we are here discussing the preliminary redundancy that is now to be made for two years, in place of a year, and so on. As noted by whiskers. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinson promised the Minister last year that it would be, for he would be thinking of setting up a music university or something that we still don't know about, a respectable president. This may not be possible, even if it is time for intermissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u133	Madam President. It is so, and it missed the course. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konsbydótttir, says this is a new program for a new music school song. On November 13, 2014, the highest came. In a special discussion about the future of music education, a minister said: "We are in the final meters, and I hope to receive a bill by the spring council of 2015. Since then, nothing has happened or been heard of these matters unless regular requests are made. The General and Education Committee to ask her to extend certain laws in order to maintain an agreement that, using probe, I would like to state that I have been on top of it. Minister to be important and relevant. There's been an interpretation, since I've agreed with the highest. Minister. He has had the support of this matter, but at the very least he has the highest. Ministers do not have a purpose or reason to inform the council of their plans. Of course, the patience of our senators is completely lost in this case, which appears six weeks after the agreement is signed. [[The president calls.]] We read about the changes in plans for the press and the bill that we were promised for more than a year has yet to occur. [[The president calls.]] And it is not even offered a report on the subject, much less. A minister himself makes the case, which he should, of course, should have and had plenty of time to do if it had been done right in April of this year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u134	Madam President. How amazing it is to observe and listen to a discussion on the matter of Congress that was being discussed here! I can't quite feel a little pain with a bang. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Brá Consley's daughter, of course, because she's not the one in this matter but the highest. Secretary of education. I'd like to agree with those who have said that this program should be interrupted at a meeting, as it is not possible to continue here as long as the Ministry of Education is not in the house. It has certainly come to the highest level. Minister is on his way, but I kind of feel that as this case has grown, it is not acceptable for members of Congress to hold talks in this case until the Minister has arrived. That's why I think it's time to take a break until the Minister gets here, then we can move on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u135	Madam President. I'd like to have the highest. The president will decide whether this discussion is planned and will address other matters on the program until the highest level. Minister's coming. I understand that he's not in the Faeroe Islands anymore, he's here in Iceland, and that's why he's ready to come and talk about it. I don't think it's possible to handle this matter any further unless we hear his explanation and why it's so static. This reminds me of a great novel by my favorite head, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, a narrative of multiple murder. V.E.G. A minister has repeatedly explained that he intends to introduce his bill to the council and his ideas on the arrangements of these matters. It won't hurt. They were reminded of why. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who in November 2014 had the highest power. Minister said the bill was in the last record. It's become a fairly delicate concept of what the last meters are. Who are they? We need even. to get an explanation. Ministers of when these last yards are completed. [[The president calls.]] Is it running that takes more than one terms period?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u136	The President would like to inform us that she is not planning to interrupt a meeting. As far as there is a minister in the area. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u137	President. I'm glad I'm at the top. The minister is here at the Assembly Hall and would like to propose that the president consider whether the Minister would like to take advantage of what is permitted in the council, that he should speak next. Now I don't know if he wants to, but we might be able to ask him in answer, but maybe he doesn't want to. There, however, people are eager to learn more about his plans and how he will suggest that music be conducted in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u138	Madam President. I offer the highest. Minister welcome home from the Faeroe Islands. It is important that he recognizes the prospect of future discussions with music education that he has previously had in mind that he wants to talk to the council. Of course, it is very unfortunate that this agreement was signed in mid - April 2016, and six weeks later, it is rough. The General and Education Committee to measure for a bill. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What has really taken over the matter, and why was it not immediately mentioned in the bill form? It is also important that we receive a report from the highest level. In view of his words in November 2014, a minister, however he intends to deliver it, said that a bill for a comprehensive song on music education was in his final meters and that it was likely due to be held in the spring Summit of 2015. This bill tells us that its preparation is still being prepared, so this must very well be prepared. What does not appear in the bill is what talks have been made to represent the overall audience of music schools, music schools, and principals. [[The president calls.]] All of this is a piece of information. Senators need to be cleared up. [[The president calls.]] It's a question of whether the highest. A minister uses that as an opportunity. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir suggested that he be first on the rosary, and then we can determine if there is any need for a further report from the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u139	Madam President. I must express my frustration that the minister should not accept the offer and come on a talk chair and discuss these matters with us. As a minister knows, it happened to the General and Education Committee, when a comparable case was made last year that the chairman of the Committee was not happy and it's probably as unhappy now as it has been to deliver this case, because there's been quite a lot of time since it was signed as it's been before. The relationship was overlooked at our meeting on the committee that they felt that the contract had come in February, and they failed to understand why it was not signed until April. Apparently something has taken place in the Ministry, and the Minister needs to explain and at the same time why he doesn't deliver the case himself. It is difficult to carry delays when the time line appears to be in some other way. This also hangs all of this together on the vision of a man in a suit as the contract agreement, i.e. The Icelandic company, handed us over. The contract was given to me at the meeting or I got it delivered. It is stated in the bill that a minister is planning to lift an uncertain situation that has lasted over the last few years and has had a significant impact on the function of a music school. He intends to start a new school of art that will start working at the next school. It's like the other changes made in the education system in ancient times. Ministers, they do not always enter the council in the best way they could handle it. At least we can be sure that we can do better. When it comes to conversation and discussion, as was attributed to a dog. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, seems so. It was also noted at a meeting of the committee that the music students do not seem to be part of the conversation. It's really bad that it's been like that, and it's really amazing. You could transfer this to any activity if you are not included to do the job, you're heading for trouble. The committee decided to take the bill in spite of the terrible kind, I'd like to say it wasn't done, and nobody is kind enough to do it this way. However, the bill solves a particular problem, including makes it possible for an equation to charge the local community and then pay out certain tasks that it does not have the right to do what the situation is today. This, of course, is distressing. It has been in progress since last year that they did not have to spend much powder on their work because they are doing the same work as they did. A little sharpening is certainly taking place. Service agreements are to be made with non-published music schools. The lines are being sharpened, and especially about the female in Reykjavík, such as the dog. The manager mentioned. Something's being cleared up. It has to be said, as it is, that we have to do the bill and have visitors at almost the same time. Instead of putting the bill away from a minister who recommends it and then in a traditional narrative and then to the Committee, all of this happens at the same time. It has been observed that this is very little about the pay cases except for a short period of time and does not solve in itself the problems we know some of the schools are in, although others may. The uncertainty that varied interpretations of the last layer caused the last one is very sad, although no one is accused of it. All this time, there has been a hole that has to be stopped. The conversation with Reykjavíkurburg has taken a lot of trouble. The bill speaks of the support of music studies in students from wherever they come from, but it speaks of a certain saying, rural society can place goodbyes on students. In order to keep the box, i.e. not to exceed the amount of dollars you have proposed. There are other projects here that don't involve the music program. I wonder about last year, and I now do the same thing, how this hangs together, the commitment of my team members to receive support for my study of music. In addition, they have to contribute funds, including contracts with the summer resort in Smokey Valley to nearly 30 million, the computer center for the disabled to less than 10 million, and the Vistin Home Saves in Seltiannes for the disabled by 63 million. Then 30 million is taken again. K. part to solve the emergency problems of the music schools, which were once part of the balance fund. It's that person's initiative, but it's only to try to solve this bix, and it happened last year. It's not that they didn't want any new money to solve that problem, because not all societies are well off with their social apartments that they don't need the equation. But under those circumstances there are very different subjects, even so that these sums are not enough for business, as in the case of the Vist Home of Saver, where the Salvation Army is opposed to its success. That is exactly what happened last year. It's a bandworm. There are several laws being changed. They're changing the law on study data, basic schools and rural income. Regarding why this has been so delayed, they told us that they thought they had reached an agreement in February on the High School Re-education Fund, but the schools have failed to establish a re-education. We know that when teachers reenact, the greatest supply is available in August, they have not been able to complete it in order to obtain it. That is why they stress that this issue is going through, and in many respects it is different from what has been done except what is taking place. It says below that the Minister's vision of the future is somewhat unconcerned, i.e. It's called the music university, a music school for college. [[Up front.]] In fact, the problem is that the point of signing the agreement may lead to a 6th - paragraph timing. Can't stand. It says that, and that's what I'd like to be absolutely sure I wasn't signing, that it applies both to the creation of a new art college and to the development of a service contract between a local partner and a special music school. It will be discussed if the aforementioned one fails, but it will be noted that if there are differences in the performance of individual tasks or aspects of the agreement, the members can refer to the JOSMS Committee. All of this takes place on one thing, on a project that has to be solved, and either too late to start trying to solve it or too little time to do so. I think it's perfectly clear, considering this march. I believe that a minister will answer the question afterwards about work preparing a new bill for a new music school song that has been in progress since 2013 or what it is now. Surely we need to understand what causes it all to take so long. Madam President. I'm not gonna have this any further. I've presented what I wanted to say about this matter. Although I'm not happy to move, I'm not going to help make the music schools and the projects I listed to be even worse in life or in trouble. But this is unacceptable work in all places and ministers should not allow it to happen here repeatedly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u140	A respectable president. Here is an issue that, as mentioned above, has a considerable bearing. It may not be necessary to spend many words on the convergence, but it may be appropriate to recall once again that the agreement made in 2011 had been made so that it opened up opportunities for interpretation by the individual partners; it was pointed out in the agreement that given to the members of the community, alone, the opportunity to interpret the agreement so that it would create and create the situation that the rural communities could take the money that had previously slipped off the board, so to speak, and only left the financial resources that came along with the agreement, in 2011, to be fed by music in the extended and extensional singing. Of course, there are some opinions that can be held regarding the preparatory work that was done in terms of agreement and how these places were formed. I'm not gonna have that many words. A respectable president. As a result, in the case of the Society of Reykjavík, their interpretation led to the formation of terrible places in the school of music. What may have been a bit sad is that in discussing the situation, until the decision of a court case, the situation was claimed to develop as a result of a dispute between the State and the local community, i.e. Reykjavíkurburg, about how this deal should be interpreted. I thought that it should be interpreted the same way that a former minister had thought it should be interpreted, but Reykjavíkurburg had a different view. The discussion turned out to be a solution to the dispute between the city and the state. A respectable president. There was never any dispute between the city and the State really. This was shown in a court case that the music schools had against the city, for in the defense of the city of Reykjavík, the deal was not made free in some way from the laws and responsibilities required by the city of Reykjavík, but from the law that the city of Reykjavík was obligatoryly obligatory and responsible but had the right to leave no funds for the project. Then some conclusion came to the point of the dispute. The agreement was never to be disputed. Reykjavíkurburg had done this way, thus causing the greatest damage to the people's life of music and the education of music in this country. Of course, the situation had become a real danger, so the nation's leading music schools were bankrupt, and the State had limited potential to intervene here because the laws on how state and rural society work is totally clear in this matter. What was up for the ex-fiftiest. A minister with the contract made that may have been in the rearview mirror to be different was to add money to facilitate and support their rural communities, not to allow them to take the money away and run from their legal obligations. I've said before that I don't like it, with the classes leading in Reykjavík, to stand in the way of music studies in the country and, in effect, completely incomprehensible. That's exactly what's been said here, that it's taken some time to sort this mess out. One way would certainly have been that we had made changes in business between state and team members and had moved the law of higher education to the State. But there would have been a problem where schools in many parts of the world have been expelled from their communities, i.e. basic study, middle school, and higher education. When people realize that they're going to see the misunderstanding, they're going to cut it between them and let the state handle the higher level in schools where the central and base points are run by the countryside. There may be a number of attacks. People feel that things are supposed to go faster. But I'm going to allow myself to approach this matter so, try to prepare it in such a way that there will be no damage to the future, so that in the end the problem will be even worse, which will have to be solved. The plans I've introduced publicly and discussed, regarding the fact that the state is about to become a student's business and stock of high school, where music becomes a major subject, but still a way to a student's test, frames inside and beds within the high school laws in Iceland, and therefore doesn't call for law-changes. On the other hand, I have previously told members of the council that I am very willing to discuss these matters. No more is needed than to call for a special discussion on this subject. Although few remain in the assembly period, I would like to reiterate that I have both offered and discussed these matters and the plans for the future. A respectable president. I can't bring this case here on a bill, i.e. An institution of a new school because it does not have to change the law. But the thought behind it - here is called out, saying: 'It said Ministers a year ago. [[That's what the minister said a few years ago.]] A respectable president. The conclusion is, to carefully investigate--and I must say just as it is important that this is being done with caution because of important issues, and not good to run in order to work by the law and rules set by the Council and within the framework. I'm here as a minister. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it, I'm going to do it. I don't think I'm going to bring a bill around here, I don't know how to say it, no changes in the law. To reach this conclusion, there is no need for law changes. In fact, it is the old dream of many in this country, in regard to the study of music, in the matter of setting up a school for music, a high school that turns to an art series that suggests that within its walls both classical music and the rustic are included. I would like to draw attention to the reactions of some of those who have expressed themselves on that matter in public fields, of famous artists who have expressed themselves in their plans, both from the study of classical music and symphony music that has pleased them. Does that solve the problems that were created from 2011 onward? - Actually, he's got a longer lead. The ideas that came up at Reykjavíkurburg have been developed and have some consequences, so this is not just the 2011 agreement and interpretation of what has created the problem. - Let's see. However, this approach is based on the government's taking up the funding of high school, just as it finances a number of other high schools, both secondary education, education, and Congregation Book Schools. I think it's a really good news that the government attacks them on funding a high school in music and thus raised a college education. The project, a musical program in general, and in a song in the middle and advanced phase, is continued in the rural community as the law assumes and has not been changed; and it is confirmed in judicial matters that this is the case, that the responsibility is clearly in the community. This led to the conclusion of the legal case that I refer to here. The bill presented here relates to the agreement made and signed on April 13th. and is about many of the agreements made in 2011 and extended; yet the wording has been changed to shut down the interpretation that led to such huge problems in music school, especially in Reykjavík. In fact, the bill, of course, turns to the rural communities here as the director of the music schools, facing the equation fund. This bill does not directly turn to the music schools, so to speak. This bill does not focus on plans for new schools funded by the State. This focuses on the rural communities, which are the operators' majority of the schools that are being covered here, and particularly the equation fund, i.e. quick recovery from the projects and collection of funds for the projects prescribed. I heard from him. A senator earlier, somehow understood that there was something special or strange about the fact that these projects were there. Of course, this is the 2011 arrangement that was created and is quite reasonable, i.e. This provides more funding, which is easier to divide through the equation fund than to meet the rural population and take these tasks. I think it's a good solution. So I was surprised to hear from him. A senator said that this aspect of the bill was being made suspicious or that it was somehow strange. But as for the d- team in remarks, about 30 million to solve the emergency problems of the music school, that's right. Such a situation has been formed in Reykjavík, because of the way the government has handled matters, out of ambition, I'm going to tell you, that these measures have to be taken here. On the other hand, I hope that the arrangement we set up here will make a change in our approach to Reykjavíkurburg and that the city has ambition to do better with the obligation of law on music schools, since the law is completely clear. The 2011 agreement and the 2011 agreement made, and this bill turns to, as well as the plans I have set for a music school. I'm not going to be long on going through some of the articles in the bill, but I'm going to say that I think they're all good. It will clear up the terms of the agreement that I think matter. For one thing, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is the minister of the local government that makes further provision for contributions according to 1. mg, i.e. sets the criteria for student careers and community information. This is important to ensure that, among other things, those who are in high school and who are supported, for example, have completed their middle study; that is what the bill is about. When you read it, you can see that the rural areas and their implementation of the agreement are fixed under individual regulations. I therefore believe that the agreement we have made will ensure that further funding will come to the music schools throughout the country where they can use them to further their music education, and there will be more certain and assured in the implementation of this agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u141	Madam President. I thought I saw it at the top. Ministers that he was not light in his speech, I now know the highest. Ministers are fine, but I don't think he needs to be surprised. Congress officials have questions to ask about this matter, first of all, in view of the ideal agreement. A minister referred to it in mid - April 2016. I suppose that would have been easy for the highest level. Ministers to bring this matter into the council earlier, he may be able to explain to us what has been involved in these matters, and to have a conversation with members of the council who he knows are deeply interested in the matter. V.E.G. A minister testified that specific matters could be asked. This has been done in the chosen period at least one of the people standing here. I think the highest. A minister would have dealt well with this case, although it did not protect the subject of the bill itself, which is absolutely right at the highest level. Minister to base on an old agreement, and it's about government and rural division. It would have been nice to have a report on this agreement. When I'm at the highest. A minister says he doesn't need any legal adjustments to start a new college, but we who have observed the news and have read about this new agreement as the highest. A minister has made it clear that it says that there is a new program for music education at the spring of 2016. That's all there is to hope. The senators ask the U.S. Marshals. Minister: Where, then, is it? In view of the fact that this is in the agreement as high as possible, we expect it to be expected. A minister suggested that a problem had already taken place? I felt that the agreement had not been sufficiently prepared in 2011. I allow myself to say, for I came to the matter, that a tremendous work was put into that agreement. I don't think it's possible to refer solely to preparation for it and how it is, I agree with the highest degree. Minister, was so treated by certain communities. [[The president calls.]] We totally agree on that. [[The president calls.]] But there is hope. Councilmen ask: "Where's the bill at the highest level? The minister has agreed that he should enter this council? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u142	A respectable president. So it is that since the work of the agreement, there have been changes in politics, there have been indications of timing and other sources of such things that have become different from what is supposed to be, but this may not be the important thing, and it is not whether they are the highest level. Ministers are relieved or not. In fact, it's really important to me, and I feel terrible about what it has been all about. I can't help but respectable President, that I'm very weighed down in this matter because I take it very seriously and I feel very bad about what it has been done to music, especially in Reykjavík. Whatever the case, preparing the 2011 agreement, which, of course, I don't know but why. Senator, former U.S. Marshal. Minister, says that it was well prepared, but it did so. I have never received an explanation from the president of Reykjavík City how, on the other hand, the lawsuit in the case first based on the fact that there was no money to be put in this case for a dispute with the State then completely changed into the court and became completely different where it did not stand a stone in what had been said. I think it's amazing how you could get away with it and cause this terrible damage. And, of course, a respectable president, I'm a little heavy about this. I think that's what we're talking about. It should be the same for members of Congress, that's the case. The meetings we've done with our rural society are officially useful, and everyone can learn about it. But from the time it was signed, work will certainly start to see what changes must be made on the basis of it. It's April 13th that we sign. [[The president calls.]] Then this work is done. I'll admit, a respectable president, that I thought the matter was so growing that it was actually about to be improved under it and there was no material change in policy, and that would not be an obstacle to taking it through the committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll find out later in my reply how it turns.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u143	Madam President. I can start by informing the highest. Also, a minister who makes me feel bad about all this matter, and of course, when an agreement is intended to promote music and to add money to music school is deliberately misunderstood in the way it was. But okay, we've been over it many times in this room. Now we're discussing this bill. It's based on an agreement as the highest. Minister signed in April 2016. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The EEA agrees that in the spring of 2016, there will be a bill for needed legal adjustments in connection with this agreement, including a music school bill. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is it any other matter than we're discussing here, because we're not discussing music school bill? We're talking about a bill to set up a law on government change and rural society because of this agreement. Has anything changed since April 13th, 2016? Isn't the bill coming in here? V.E.G. A minister must know that he has repeatedly said that such a bill is being worked. It is shown in a paper with the bill that works on such a bill. It was written in the agreement. Why do I want to know about this? Yes, this is also one of the agreements in 2011, and it was noted that there had been a major violation of the agreement that the bill had not been fulfilled. It's been several years. It's still here and again testified not to offer the bill. Is it not normal? In view of the fact that this is one of the very things that have been blunt in this discussion, are members of Congress being informed? Of course we do. Senators pay that the music schools in the country are not harmed more than they have been. That's what I don't think this is about. However, it is perfectly normal when we read about this in public evidence that has not been introduced in the council that we ask these questions, such as. when it is signed that there is a bill for music school on the way into this council. [[The president calls.]] That's a perfectly normal question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u144	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees that there has been a serious damage to music in the country because of the way the city of Reykjavík interpreted the agreement made in 2011. It was very serious that evolution became the one to be seen. But it was good for a court case that forced the city of Reykjavík to tell the truth, to give up a dispute with the government, and to face up to the fact that the law stood up for it, and to stand still for the local communities to handle these matters, to take responsibility for them, and therefore to do them well. The 2011 meeting work was designed to add funds. It is unforgivable that this has been done in the way it was done. But it may be behind us. I have not yet heard any explanation for how this was done this way. A respectable president. I can make it clear then that neither tomorrow nor the other will produce a new bill for a music school song. Then there is nothing to worry about. We're in a hurry. We're not gonna make it. It will not affect the interpretation of this agreement. In fact, I feel as far as the 2011 agreement is concerned that no one has ever been able to make any use of a law to try to turn it out as it was done. A respectable president. Here is the bill that was spoken of as having to work, and of course one day it was time to step aside to get better under it. A respectable president. So, what's going on? Now, an advertising has been made for those who want to accept the new school of music. That music school will be able to take over 200 students. This means that the agreement made that was signed on April 13 ensures that each student's work goes up to another music school in the country. [[The president calls.]] This means that our rural communities will be on better land to do this work and that we will receive a powerful music school in the country at the after stage, a study that will lead to a student's test. [[The president calls.]] I'm telling you, here, it's creating a very attractive solution to the problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u145	President wants to ask the highest. Minister to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u146	Madam President. V.E.G. According to a minister, things have changed since the agreement was made. One thing hasn't changed, it's the perfect lack of work. Minister of this important case. V.E.G. A minister does not know or remember his own words. He is surprised that he is being charged with a legal bill that has to do with the division of the state and rural society. It was the highest. A minister who himself answered my three questions last year in a discussion on this matter and swore and pained that they were working on a bill. In November 2014, he first mentioned in a discussion that a bill would arrive in spring. Then came the spring, and last summer, 2015, said the highest. Minister, with permission of presidents: It's all on the drawing table. We're taking our first steps here. We are still reviewing how we should define the approach of the State and how we should define the arrival of the local community. This must be done in a more precise way than did the 2011 agreement, for it was fully recognized when it was concluded that it was expected that a bill would be put forth at the council to sharpen it. That's what we're doing right now. Those are words of the highest order. Minister. He goes on to say: ▪ I hope that all of this work will be here so that we can see a bill coming into the Senate as early as autumn. Madam President. It's been seven, eight months since that fall. Then comes the top. A minister is amazed that anyone should charge him for the bill he himself said should have been inside months ago. When I questioned that it was time for the highest. A minister to make that claim in the fall of the coming he said, with the permission of President Mrs. President: I think it's possible to bring a bill. It's going to work. That is why this committee is set up. That is why two members of the European Union are on this committee in order to have a conversation with us about these factors. V.E.G. Ministers are not familiar with their own words. He was the one who came here last year and said that this case would be settled once and for all, and it would never have to be held hostage again, as he is doing now. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Now he's taking what. The head of the General and Education Committee for hostage, the committee itself, and the council as well because he's completely inactive in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u147	President wants to ask why. Senator on respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u148	A respectable president. Of course, it's hard on human minds because, of course, this is a lot of subjugation because of the way the city of Reykjavík had interpreted the agreement, one of all rural society, and caused enormous damage. It's called as a boy. Just as a candidate quoted from his fine, measured speech, a particular conclusion was drawn about a future view of a certain route that would be taken. That's exactly what I've been discussing here, which is about to set up a school that the State is about to finance. It will then become clear that there is no need for a change in the law to be made in order to do so. Hardly now is the case. I'm going to bring a legal adjustment to a case that doesn't need adjustment. I hear what you're saying. A senator is well read in all the discussions that have been conducted here, and he can feel that we have spoken about a change of law here, but when the conclusion of the conversation between the local community and the State becomes that this route will be gone, we will make that decision and work according to it. I'm just going to lay low, though. A senator come here and give such good and balanced talks, that's fine. What matters to me, and he can call me useless in this matter, is what I can do to correct the damage that has been done by the way I have been going. [[The president calls.]] I want to give a good witness. One of her authors, a nice man, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, who I know that why. In fact, a senator knew that the way that is suggested was a major step toward progress. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what matters, i.e. that the matter be resolved and that there is a solution that leads to success.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u149	Madam President. I'd like to recall it for the highest. Minister that I joined his ideas here last year. [[Up front.]] I told him I'd support them when they showed up. They've never been before this council. That doesn't mean anything for the highest. Minister to come here now and talk of the inordinate lack of ambition in Reykjavík. Wasn't that the highest. A minister who last year said he saw certain reasonable arguments in his lawsuit in Reykjavík? Yes, he was, in this case. It was the highest. A minister who came here earlier talking about ambition. Where is the ambition in this matter? Is that not true of a minister who says that time was needed to resolve the situation? What's the highest. A minister has taken a long time to resolve this problem? Three years, and he doesn't have the solution for the council yet. We're almost out of season. There's no hope to get to the highest. A minister can address these matters while he is in office unless he continues his election because in this matter he has shown a complete lack of ambition. I have more ambition for this highest kind of thing. Minister, but apparently himself. I have, for example. The ambition for him should be recognized by his own words. It doesn't mean anything to him to come here and tear himself down to the ass and wonder out loud why in the world of Congress is talking about some legal bill. He's the one who said there needs a bill. This was also shown in the April agreement. One of the best questions. A minister also has to answer this question is how he says that he has not had the courage to present this bill and put it before the council. Once again, he forces a General and Education Committee to bring it into practice, adjusts matters so that there is no alternative to deciding that the committee will bring it, and he does not have to face it himself or that the schools will run out. [[The president calls.]] What kind of work is that now, Madam President?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u150	A respectable president. Well, that's not quite good enough when it happens. Councilmen speak in such a way. A senator did here, believing that the bill somehow turned to the school not to fail. I would have expected that. A senator had at least studied the subject of the bill since he evidently studied the history of the matter. It does not turn in that way. A senator is suggesting here. When I spoke of being reasonable at Reykjavík, it was about one of the factors. That should be why. A senator who seems to have done a fine research, but it turns out that Reykjavíkurburg had said: "We feel it's unnatural that we have to finance and contribute funds for students who come from other rural communities. There is a measure of reasonableness in that regard, but there was no fairness and no ambition to take away the money that went to that study after the agreement was made in 2011. Because there's talk of courage here, when will it be? A senator must have the courage to condemn those in charge of the city of Reykjavík for its interpretation of the ideal agreement. A minister did in the government in which he himself served? When's what? A senator who has the courage to say that there is no doubt in the capital, that music studies are not offered at an advanced stage, that no higher education is being offered? [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Let me get this straight. A senator did not have the courage to stand up and say: It is unnatural and false that Reykjavíkurburg decided to interpret the agreement made in his reign, by a minister who was with him in the government, so a disaster has occurred at music schools in Reykjavík? Has a what? A senator really does not have the courage to declare it? [[Up front.]] It cannot be said that Reykjavík's translation of the agreement made in 2011 is the responsibility of what is being said here. I interpret that agreement in a certain way. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. One former minister interpreted it in a certain way. A respectable president. Clearly, the fault lies at a certain point. [[The president calls.]] I hope that they can be put in cases all behind us and looked to the future on the basis of an agreement made and the plans now for a new music school. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u151	Madam President. It is kind of boring to discuss this matter late in the evening late in the Senate, for it is a matter of course that we should take time to discuss. I reiterate what I said before in reverse, and I would have thought it would have worked out if it was the highest. A minister would have taken his own initiative - for of course, there have been special discussions and inquiries on the part of many. Councilmen to the highest. Minister on the situation of these matters - come and report to the council after the new agreement made in mid - April. V.E.G. A minister is well aware that many people have a bad temper. Senators are interested in these matters. It would have been a struggle, though. A minister does not need to do so, as he did in his speech. This is not about what law code is set exactly for us but how the Commission wants to work with the legislature in the light of what I also mentioned earlier in return that in this agreement that can be found online, certainly, they are offered bills, not only this bill about changing the law of state and group members, but also the bill for music courses as the highest level. Six weeks later, a minister has now informed him not to appear in the spring council. That's perfectly normal, I'd like to say, for them why. Councilmen here concerned in the light of their famous agreement in 2011. Indeed, it was accompanied by money, both in the form of a changed government and a community, and in the form of a new budget of $250 million, or a total of 480 million. K. who came in addition to my study of music. So it came, of course, money, and of course the last government held on to the agreement she signed. Part of them went through workchange, and part of them was new funding. What was wrong with that, however, was that it began with a heated dispute. A local music school in the city of Reykjavíkurburg has been reviewed by a minister to see if the accord had really taken responsibility in the leading stages, even though that language had changed so. Of course, that was never the intention. I'm here with the 2011 agreement in front of me because it's totally clear. It is considered that the arrangement provides a basis for, with the permission of Madam President: a progressive music course with the access of a government fund to the training costs of music funds, allowing students to pursue high school and high - school singing in the middle and extension stages regardless of their home location. These are the bonds that were quoted earlier, which had been controversial between rural partners, not between states and rural communities, but for many years before. The agreement also speaks of the equation of other students to music study regardless of their habitat and economy, and then a new bill of music school song is quoted, which I have to admit that I did not succeed as a minister and had actually been in the seminaries of education, which before me too. For so long, this case has lasted. It's been through quite a lot of ministers. Then the dispute or what we would like to call it different interpretations of the agreement. We've spent a considerable amount of time during this terms in reviewing it all. However, the remainder is that of the present level. A minister has promised that these matters will be permanently resolved. He put in his earlier ideas about a new high school in the field of music, which, if I recall correctly, he got an excellent response from this hall. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson read from discourses in which he dealt well with these ideas. Of course, members of Parliament naturally want to know how this is handled, how to do so. V.E.G. A minister comes up here and says, "It's been arranged. It's done already. As far as I could hear, he would say it. Of course, we have what we need. Congress members are interested in knowing how this case was handled, which was discussed. This bill shows no consultations, e.g. with a music school, a music teacher, or a music principal. I don't know if this organization has been consulted about the establishment of this new school. It'd be nice to know from the highest. Minister. The new agreement also speaks of the planned new bill. V.E.G. Minister, as I came to see earlier, has said it's not coming. He says it's not gonna be bitter bones, but I just want to remind you that there's been a bite bone in the 2011 agreement. So all these questions that are being asked are completely normal and justified. It is only natural for us to ask these questions in view of the position that this agreement is made and then enter the council six weeks later. It would have been better, Madam President, to the top. A minister would have simply come after he signed the agreement and recognized the physical features, the proposed changes, and the precise handling of the laws. Did he know, then, that the bill that was signed to appear in the spring? The highest. A minister explained why this will be waited? He told me before it wouldn't be right now. Why not? What has changed since April 16? What Has Changed? Is there any controversy about how they visualize this matter? These are perfectly natural and legitimate questions, Madam President. I must say, I find it boring to experience in this important matter, which is important not just for the culture of this country but for the community all of it, how it has become the cause of strife between the state and the city of Reykjavík. That's very sad. This has had a powerful and difficult effect on a music school in the capital city. That is why I must ask from that story: " Why and what can you do to prevent it? ' It's the highest. Minister is convinced that this extension of operations is enough to prevent long - term positions? V.E.G. Says one minister: The matter is being resolved permanently. Does not a bill need to correct music education in order to solve it permanently? Is it not true that rural society has pointed out that while the project is on the table of the local community, it is not their duty to run a music school or all the degrees of music school? Do you need to explain this in your bill? Isn't this the discussion we had to go to the Senate Hall for a reason? The senators recognized the situation? After elections in the fall, if we find out that there will be a new Minister, and I don't know anything about it, that minister will be the fourth minister of education and culture, in its series, to have a bill of music education to eliminate this uncertainty exactly? These are reasonable questions, and it would have been good to have this conversation in the daylight light in relation to the agreement, even though there is no law in real life on the Minister to come here and look for permission. No one's talking about the Minister having to ask permission to start a new high school. It's not. This is just a normal conversation that the legislature must have, especially because of the negative results, we can say, which, unfortunately, came from this agreement. All I can say is that my mind and all those who participated in it, the Union of Iceland, and the ministers who came to the case, surely the agreement should be an extension of music education. I'd like to say, because I'm not going to extend this discussion, and maybe I've just talked too often about the matter at the council, so it's not much of a change, so I'm sorry about what happened. But I express my concern about this, even though I was in a position where I was and that there is a need to settle matters so that we do not compromise our shoes. Then I give a review of my concern that this is a question that we need to answer and that it would be good to find the answer in some form of reporting whether we are still in the position that it will need a bill to correct music education in order to make peace with this matter permanently, that it will need some basis that the parties agree that is acceptable. Then I'm not only talking about state and community. I'm also talking about the teacher, principal, and school organizations that need to be involved and that need to be consulted before the council to form a bill for music study. Madam President. I'm kind of the point that we're discussing this because I can say that many people have had a good mind on this matter and have been sorry to see how it has developed. I would've preferred that we were at this point discussing a future music conference, that we weren't in temporary solutions, that we were looking at a legal field for the future, which explained these matters better. I have personally felt that, although there may be some discrepancies in the system, it is worth considering why some phases are in the hands of the local community, such as at the study of music, when there is a higher level of higher education in general high school. We're looking at it with ideas of the highest nature. A minister for a new school in the field of music that the change in the bill presented in the agreement will be emphasized in any way? These are basic questions that should be discussed by the council and not discussed in the fractionary format discussed here in order to ensure an equation paid off in order to put their payments on to the music schools once more. I allow me to say that I find this situation quite sad, especially since all of us speaking in the language are concerned about the future of music education, the future of music study in the country that is important to our families in the country, our children in the country, our culture, our professional life. It's a huge business route, too. It's not coming out of nothing. He comes out of our wonderful schools. It's music that's drawing attention to Iceland, attracting tourists and making this country so much more fun and better in every respect. We owe it to the schools. So, of course, you wish that the discussion could be more about it than about the type of work. And I'm urging all parties to consider that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u152	A respectable president. Thank you. Her senator's fine speech and, actually, when I asked for the answer, had not come up with the answers that later appeared in a talk. A senator, so I may not have to take much knowledge of her. But it seems to me that with this case, we are saving problems at the last minute, we're allowing the government to pay the local community so that they can lead a music-school operation in accordance with a long-term agreement. Then a bill that was long preached is proclaimed, but we have not seen. And what is now being discussed is only two years old. Actually, it's just some red-eye to two years old. There is no resolve or mark of any future conference on music schools, and here there is no lasting solution, even though it is claimed in a paper with the bill. It was just this view that I was going to enter. A senator who has been a minister of education after being well acquainted with the case. Since this has also been a very difficult quarrel in Reykjavík, on the very top of the world's population. Also, a minister of education would be interesting to know what is a vision. Senator and former Minister of Education, in the state of Reykjavík. She doesn't have any agents here to answer for her. But I don't believe anything but some simple things that have been presented in this case. I would love to hear the senator's point of view.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-31-122.u153	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. So I will take the second part of it first, and I must say that it disappointed me when the agreement was completed in 2011. At that time, an agreement with the European Union was made, and it was apparent that rural society was not alone in understanding how that agreement should be interpreted. It was quite clear that the city of Reykjavík interpreted it differently from the state and the Union of Iceland. It's been shown in this room before. I was disappointed, and the situation has gone so far that one music school in this city was suing the city simply because of this interpretation. I don't entirely trust myself to go over the city of Reykjavík except for that, perhaps, in order that I might know the matter from my previous life as a deputy here for a while. The environment of a music school in Reykjavík has meant the city's so - called competitive environment in which it is obliged to strengthen all schools according to comparable rules without necessarily expanding the pot, which has caused the city to be trying to shape a course without controlling the development of these issues. It may not be my place to answer exactly how these matters are today in Reykjavík. What I'd like to say, however, is that the city's interpretation of the agreement was entirely different from the Union of Iceland and the State. I agree with the highest. Minister on that. On the other hand, with regard to the future solution, I have to say that I agree with what is happening. Senator. I don't see that this case, which goes on for 2016, 2017, and 2018, is enough to create some vision and peace on the subject. Well, it's a big deal, no matter what's going on with the state and city and rural society, that we have to have some vision, so we don't have to be talking about it here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's the big job, Madam President.
