ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-14.u1	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from December 22, 2016, or later, if necessary, to January 24, 2017. A respectable president. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-14.u2	A respectable president. I recommend a 3rd-year conversion proposal. budgets. I explained earlier today that there is a possibility that we would need to revise a slight review of one of the proposals there made and fill it with better data, but it is very simple. It says to raise extra funds for the Vega project because of unexpected projects at the bottom of a sailing port. That's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-14.u3	Mr. President. I recommend change proposals for budget bill on the 3rd. and now recognize the proposals that the committee has agreed to make. In some respects they are sanctified by other approved ones earlier this evening, so changing the future budget and the aspects of it were inevitable. First, the Commission proposes to bring back a portion of the proposals made for 2nd. to prepare and design a building at Control Center. It is the reason that taking money from that project is beyond the reach of its design, which is accepted as part of the World Council's resolution on birthdays. Second, we suggest a certain transfer in the system, between recruitment. At the previous council, authoritarian laws were adopted where authorit was decided to accept authorly in a way that State Fund would provide annual funds to pay for authorial rights, were previously saved into the Ministry of Education, but will now be proposed to save in the Ministry of Economics. The three last suggestions we will make this time are the result of a law that we agreed on for the funding of the MPA project to 67 million. Then there are two changes in growth, responsibilities, and pension commitments and the general reserve for specific measures to result from earlier tonight's approval of a matter of pension, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-14.u4	Honorable generals. It's final meeting of the Generals before Christmas break. During these last few days, the council has had to cover and handle large and important issues in less than most recent times and, of course, carry the highest budget for 2017. I believe that the execution of that matter in the good standing of all groups has shown the strength of the Generals and that the council was subject to the responsibility it holds despite the special political conditions we have been living in during the last week. It might even be said that it was mature and learnable for the General to handle large issues without having to live with political matters, as has been the custom at the council. I have full faith that on this December, we have taken steps to improve the appearance of the Council and to increase its confidence by public. For both ourselves and the nation, we have proved that this is how we can work. We have passed the test that an unusual and challenging situation faced us. This situation, which has not been more than 37 years, has not occurred since the last major election since December 1979. The president would like to state that he had not yet arrived at the council then. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Then, for eight days, the General Assembly handled some urgent cases, did not materialize, but adopted provision from financial funds. We still live under the position that here we are 54 days after the election. Some feel that it is a delay to make more of a new government, or at least A government for which the council can tolerate, but in the historical context, this situation is not unique. At the beginning of my second election period at the Council, after the 1987 election, it took place, for example. 73 days to form a government. More such examples from our political history might be cited as the complicated outcome of elections has delayed the formation of more political elements in the General Assembly. But in view of the fact that this government is still not represented by the Council, it is far more important, and especially if this situation follows us into the new year, that the Council has managed to arrange for the new year to have problems with financial and related issues. The political situation here may involve some unusual and even pleasant ways in the matter of Congress. So I don't get any less at all, so I still witness in myself, that in my 33 years of Congress, there was never a time when six committees were published at once, the same thing as the case, which was the result of the payment of a budget earlier today that six smaller items gave their opinion. I remember putting aside a bill to correct the management of fish in the upper department in 1990. It was divided into five smaller sections by the ocean - care committee, which was a story to the next town. So we've got a record here. I'd like to add one more unusual thing. Almost no more members of Congress have taken a solemn vow to the Constitution in one month or so. In all, 27 new senators and watchmen signed their word in December and took their first place in the Council. On this occasion, I would like to thank the vice presidents for their cooperation on the board of Congress. I also thank the presidents of the political parties and members of the Parliament for their smooth, smooth cooperation. I would like to give my special pleasure with the good will that the senators have shown in order to resolve matters that were decided to be done before the Christmas season. At the end of this last assembly of 2016, I present to all delegates, stewards, and staff members of the Generals, who thank them for their work and wish them all a joyful and peaceful Christmas celebration. Those who have come a long way home wish I had a nice return home and we could all meet together in a whole new year. I will send my best Christmas and New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-14.u5	A respectable president. In the name of our Generals, I thank the President of the Generals very much for the cooperation of this December and as well as for the careful management. In this regard, he has enjoyed his long learning to be a member of the council. I'd also like to thank him very much for our cooperation with members of the council. Our president grew up in rural areas, where he boasts that most towns will find leadership. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The qualities of leadership are unique. They are debates, debates, intelligence, and lead the flock and avoid dangers. I believe that our president learned something from the leader of his family growing up and that the benefits of the Turbist were quite useful in the past few weeks. I would like to agree with the comments that many members of the council have made today that it has been particularly enjoyable to witness to the good spirit that has existed at the council. Everyone has worked hard to get us to finish the proceedings that were urged to prepare for the Council's Christmas break. Of course, this has meant that for the matter to be settled, it would have to be extended. I sincerely hope that the work and the atmosphere that we have spent over the last two weeks represent a change in communication and cooperation at the General Assembly. Finally, I would like to thank a respectable president of our council members and wish him and his family happy Christmas and success in the coming year. I'd also like to thank the members of the Generals for all the assistance they have with us all members of the United States and give their families the best wishes for Merry Christmas and the coming years. I ask all councilmen to sign Christmas wishes and New Year's Eve to the President of the Generals, the staff, and their families by rising from their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]] Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-14.u6	The President thanks for his warm words and good wishes to his family and to his family, and I repeat thanks and greetings to members of the Parliament and the members of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-22-14.u7	Iceland's number tells: That, according to the approval of the Generals, I am authorized by the prime minister to postpone the discovery of the General Assembly of 146, from December 22, 2016 or later, if necessary, to January 24, 2017. Access sites, December 22, 2016. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings By this authority and by references to the approval of the Generals, I declare that the Council is postponed by the 146th legis. I would like to use this opportunity to thank the generals under unusual circumstances at this council for good cooperation, good work, and having been able to do this great work here tonight with good advance for the New Year's Eve. I'd also like to take this opportunity and wish who. All council members and citizens of the country, all happy Christmas and happy New Year.
