ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u1	After the 1st session, the job of the Parliament, it will be interrupted. 17th
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u2	Today, presidents of the Council of the United States received a message from Björt Ólafsdóttir Olafsdóttir to be a deputy of the Northern Council of Iceland instead of the Brynfótir of Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, such as Article 16. Convention on human exchange in committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u3	Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 1632, about nuclear disarmament and the United Nations, from the Steinunn Þóra of the Year's Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u4	V.E.G. President. It's like the highest. After this program, the president will be reassigned. 17 and had already delayed a congregation meeting for two hours, probably due to a discussion by the chairman of the development of our work at the council ahead, and that's fine. I've said it here, and I'm still saying that the cooperation has been successful, and a respectable president has been very successful in handling matters. On the contrary, members of the committees have been good. I'd like to comment on the discussion and the comment about the President's meeting board on a work plan that, of course, there's nothing wrong with the government council members making a comment to the President's conference board and having their views involved. I'd probably have done that myself under these circumstances, on my way to elections, and my excitement would have increased. But it is also important, because we like to discuss the appearance and respect of the General Assembly, that, despite the debates and comments of the government opposition, and I admit that they are entitled to do so, I think it's right to arrive because there has been a mutual and sincere agreement and to complete important matters so that we maintain effectiveness and support the appearance of the Councilis, to defend professional work and time that is going into preparation, to debates at the council, debates and stakeholders and follow up on committees, committees, committees, committees, committees, and Houseworks and reporterss and prominents. Of course, not all that work is lost, but precious time is wasted, and the progress of many is not brought to an end. So it is no less because of the effectiveness of the Generals than the appearance of me glad we get together on a big thing and finish this council and an election period in the sense that the Council is a pleasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u5	A respectable president. The last few days have been provided with information in the media that tells us that there are now far too few individuals to maintain their teaching class. There have also been reports that only about half of those with teaching rights actually serve as teachers. Today, this situation was particularly discussed at an open meeting in the University of Iceland. There is a need for a more detailed solution to the challenges we face, the conversation of the university, the teachers'mates, the State, and the local community. In that conversation, we need to review the content of our study, field work, and opportunity. Regarding the content of this study, I think it is very important to discuss whether a final teaching course to be academic, whether everyone needs research. Should the master's study or more be done in school, perhaps even paying off a job? Could you improve your connections with the school and the fact that all prospective teachers go through their entire school year of school ensure a better connection and an interest in the school ministry? Then I believe that the system modification proposed in the existing bill on the Icelandic loan Fund would be an opportunity to develop an incentive to increase the number of students in articles like teachers for all levels of school. These incentives could come through the reinforcements or tax incentives, as suggested by the changes in the majority of the items should be specifically considered. Regarding the work environment, the discussion of the school work environment is often ambiguous, and it needs to deepen in the immediate future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u6	President. I'd like to discuss the subject under this political situation in the country. You see, there have been two recent events that indicate that things could be getting better in this country. Then I'd like to give a special name to Th' ideal Guðni. Jóhannesson's son as the president of Iceland, who was a joyful milestone in view of the choices in the situation, the statesman of great conflict and human relations such as The GuðniTh. Jóhannesson. The same can be seen in my mind at a recent Presidency in the forwarding Party. I would like to use this opportunity here to congratulate the Agency for taking in my good fortunes this weekend, because the choices there were of these two schools that I mentioned earlier, on the one hand, a man who has made a conflict in his main political career and the highest. Prime Minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, who has shown in recent months that he is a man of reconciliation, a man of the conversation, who is available to reach a conclusion, and it stands. It's a pleasure. I would like to use this opportunity to encourage the groups at the council and those who are running for the coming election to go that way, to be on the lines of the conversation, to work further toward the reconciliation, and to reach a joint decision. It is vitally important, it is an opportunity for us, and it is time to say goodbye to the political struggles. [[The president calls.]] It's because of what we set out on the journey that will soon take place, trying to turn politics into that direction. [[The president calls.]] It is a joy to see it happen, and we are expected to take advantage of the opportunity to continue in that course.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u7	Mr. President. There is much to say about the activities of the council during these last days. Of course, it's better to say that there is no work plan here and that there is no question how this council will be surmounted, and when it will be possible to leave here, and to start a campaign. But despite our discussions in the country, there are things going on in the big world. As was so many times before, representatives have what they want. A foreign - language committee received a telegram that calls attention to the situation in many parts of the world, and today we have received a letter addressed at the right time. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, Chairman of what? The Foreign Affairs Committee and other committees at the moment. The Foreign Affairs Committee, where our attention is brought to the bad standing of political prisoners in the occupied state of the West Zohar. The General concluded in the spring of 2014 to assign a foreign minister to apply internationally to this country's own decision-making rights, in line with the conclusions of the United Nations Security Council and General Assembly. V.E.G. The secretary of state as well as the U.S. U.S. secretary of the United Nations has taken note of these issues. Now we learn that political prisoners are beaten in Morocco prisons. [[The president calls.]] This is something I believe we have an obligation to draw attention to, not just the highest. Rather, we become senators in the field where we can always take up this matter and remind ourselves of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u8	A respectable president. I want to talk about harmful chemicals in consumer products. I have submitted a matter of Congress that, just as Dan, Sweden, and Norway have done, the environmental minister against a policy in this case. The case is mentioned, but nothing has happened there. It should not be necessary for a senator to take action and to do something about these matters. The fact is, there is a huge amount of harmful chemicals that are used in all kinds of consumer products. Much of these materials are manmade. This happened after World War II. These may include plastics, fragrances, strategists, insecticides, various mechanisms of defense. These are the fabrics used in cosmetics, substances found in textil, in clothing, and so on. I feel that we have been incredibly asleep in this language class here in Iceland. There is much discussion about this in other lands. Fifteen years ago in Denmark, I had a friend who didn't think of using a certain type of cream on his children because it contained paraben. I allow myself to state that at that time no one in Iceland knew what paraben was. We're kind of still in that place. I don't think governments have been able to establish this matter. I hope that this council proposal that I made for it comes to that, I recall that there were people from all classes of it, as is the case in many of these consumers, who are being classed against, that the environmental minister who will be involved in this next case. It is very important to inform consumers, since legislation has not kept up with the development. The legislation has taken into account the environmental interests of the manufacturer, not necessarily the environmental issues or views of consumers. We need to know that there are material out there that we should be careful about. We need to know how to protect ourselves from these substances, e.g. by buying sled products. This is the information that needs to be presented, and I recommend that the next environmental minister, perhaps someone is. A senator here in the hall who will become a minister of the environment in the next government, take up this case, and do something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u9	Mr. President. The government groups now talk about how good people are, how much economic improvement is, and how people's situation has generally improved, i.e. Their possessions, and so on. It's mainly because real estate prices have gone up. Sadly, the Haguems'numbers show that there are two countries in Iceland, a standard paid person who owes a considerable amount, and those who live on money and have a lot of possessions. In this pontta, we have often discussed that wealth does not come equal between groups of people in the community. There is a very thorough and thorough coverage in the core of this case, as it shows that the pure property of the poorer half of the nation is negative about 211 billion in the last year, i.e. Over 100,000 people owe 211 billion more than they do. The clean property that has been generated since 2010 is over 527 billion and has advanced to the richest 10% in this country, which we have often discussed in this pont. Only last year did the wealth of this tithe increase, i.e. of these 10% people, about 185 billion, or just over 9 billion. K. to any person in this group. That's a lot of money. If we here discuss children living in poverty - and I hope that members of the council have not forgotten the report of the UNICEF delivered in January and told us that some 6,000 children lived in poverty - it is seen that despite improved property positions, there are children who live in very poor terms and who do not necessarily have money in their pockets, even though their possessions may have increased because property prices have increased. [[The president calls.]] There are, of course, very different parts of the country. It has increased most proportionately here, making people's position here in the capital area better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u10	President. I think it's very important for members of Congress to realize that we're over the programme. Not the first plan, but the second one. Time is really running out. Yesterday, it was found that there were not enough senators in a house to keep a vote. Of course, members of Congress need all who intend to make an opportunity for these elections to get the opportunity to go out in their districts and talk to voters, talk to the public, and explain in a thorough way what they will do after the election. However, it is not as if the vast majority of the less - important members of Congress take advantage of the situation and are not here when members of the smaller section need to be watched. It's not only a situation regarding attendance, it's also about the money. Now I have repeatedly criticized how much money political parties give them on a scale. I really hope that this great government financial support of political parties will be reviewed during the next term. It is clear that the major categories, for example, have not been clearly identified as 80 million. K. every year to fire. It's just not quite clear. This means that when we change, they often set up an enormous debt, which is not a good example if we are going to be in charge of the nation. [[The president calls.]] Rather, we should set a different example.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u11	A respectable president. It is urgent to talk about the situation at the council. I'm not gonna use my two minutes here to discuss it. However, I would like to discuss the situation in Poland. Yesterday, tens of thousands of men and women quit their jobs. Women worked in all over Poland, and Polish women around the world fell into the role model. The model for this ladies' day was the 1975 Women's Day holiday. The reason for the efforts of Polish women to quit pregnancy last night, tens of thousands of people all over Poland, and around the world were on solid protests, the plans of the Polish government to ban pregnancy, even when the fetus is in danger of mother's life, when it has a very serious genetic defect, and so forth, and although pregnancy is the product of rape, even incest. These plans are very serious. It violates the human rights of women, the privacy of women, the self - determination of women. In view of this and that the model for this Polish performance of women came from Iceland, I decided to write an open letter to the Polish council I gave to Poland today. It was signed by 34 Icelandic senators from all categories. I would especially like to thank them for seeing that there is more to it than some sect that is going on at the council these days. I thank them members of Congress and the Supreme Court. A minister who decided to add his name to this letter to promote human rights, to promote women's rights in the world, and to tell Poland we're watching. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to talk a lot about the council, but others have been talking about it and saying everything they need to say. I'd like to warn you about a phenomenon called a dead law letter. A dead law letter is relatively common, e.g. was 26. The constitution in its day believed to be of some dead letters until it was new. They can live, apparently. There is one so - called dead law code in alcohol that prohibits the production of alcohol for personal consumption. Even so, the production of alcohol for personal consumption is extremely common. People in general don't even have to hide it. In fact, there is a union, An Inferno, which is about fermentation and fermentation. This body has sent a commission to the Generals, a meeting to the General and Education Committee or the Health Committee, I can't remember which, and openly hosting beer contests in public and in open heaven, where the media came and discussed with its members. Clearly, then, the production of alcohol for personal consumption is not considered shocking in society, and there is no appeal to enforce these laws. Nevertheless, the line of punishment is six years. Fortunately, the law is not being carried out. This is not about people's attitude toward alcohol; it is harmful, it is undisputed, it is about behavior that is very common, and it is not considered shocking by the public, but it is a very high penalty in this death of a law code. If the government suddenly began to enforce it, what would be out of it is unclear. I believe this is a threat to the city's rights. I think it's dangerous in a state of justice that wants the city to be informed of what he may or may not do. It's the best chance of a conflicting message. By the way, laws are often used to send messages. I think you're wrong. We're not supposed to send a message by law. Laws really affect people's lives. [[The president calls.]] We need to think about it when we set a law on what the real effect of the law is and make it hard for us to root out a dead law letter. [[The president calls.]] He's a threat to the rights of the city.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to join this team, on the job of the council, to call attention to the bill that we, two candidates, have submitted to the adjustment of the country's prenuptial rights. As one report suggests, the bill suggests that the government also has premiums according to Article 3. Section 12. the treatment of fishing management when labor groups are handed over a building that has a homeseparation in another rural society. In accordance with local legislation, the government has only premiums if a fishing vessel is sold and, therefore, stock share groups can be introduced into another rural society without the advantage of a local government. In fact, it may be said that in these last days, the bill is all too slow to bring, but we feel that it is proper to call attention to this here, hoping that it may be the drive of this national theme during the next assembly. There are many members of Parliamentary affairs and one member of Congress that I would like to bring to the attention of which I set out with several other members of Congress. It's about seamen sitting at the same level as others, e.g. Allied councilmen, and they will receive tax-free money, just as the rest of the country, like the generals, public employees, stewardess, and pilots, when they go abroad. If they go out in the district of the press, they will receive a day's money and a day's money if they go abroad. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry there's a committee. I can't get out of there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u14	A respectable president. As the council knows, we have here on our side a matter of electrons to Back. V.E.G. The Minister of Industrial Affairs stormed in here two weeks ago with a Senate document, a new legal bill, and a new bill that requires decommissioning other laws in terms of environmental management, as well as the legislation of the right of partners and individuals to protest in that process. V.E.G. The minister is so determined that he cannot wait for seven days until the Environment and Resource Commission is judged on the case. She wants to shun the natural process, shun the prevailing laws of the land that are not suitable for her, and create new ones. It's supposed to happen right away. The law should ignore governmental rights to contradict. What's the deal? It is that Land Protection and Fjorg, a local community of the Mohawk, have reported a contract against the Backwaters. They're not calling for an electrical cable to turn on back. They just want to go a different way, but Landsnet's on his way. That's the whole point. National Protection wants to do a more convenient way for nature through less environmental damage, also a more convenient way for other international interests, such as tourism. But the highest. Minister, who has also turned wealth into tourism issues, doesn't want to know about it, and just want those new laws. It comes out of nowhere that she's coming here with any opinion, says, supporting this new law. It's not worked by environmental lawyers in the accelerator or independent sources, it's worked by the lawyers of the Landsnet. [[The president calls.]] Landsnet lawyers, the Logos law firm, were asked to do an opinion on whether or not the company they're going to lose. What kind of work are these things?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to come here on the final days of the council to an important matter that most students in the country are waiting for, which is the so-called LAIN bill, loan bill. I'm going to hope that we can respect them, and that we can show them reason, in this room, to put aside political debates and to finish this case. This is a major step that students have long called for. We've had challenges from four students, the largest of the college community, where it's called after it's over and that they won't be used in political disputes one more time. They have long called for advance pay on scholarships, for a direct scholarship, and for 100% progress. It's all in the bill that's in here, and they're waiting. However, they state that this can be continued. These are human works, and perhaps not 100% of what they want, but they are waiting for an enormous improvement. I hope I don't have to go into the campaign and explain to them that political debates have caused them to explain that they didn't get the compensation they've been calling for long ago. I'd also like to mention another important aspect of this subject, which has been less part of the discussion, i.e. that it makes high education in high school. This encourages people to go to trade school. Here, too, 65 can be yours. K. concentration per month in industry. This is one of the biggest steps that have been taken to encourage people in industrial education. We must not overlook this opportunity. Let's do some manhood, and we'll finish this on the last days of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u16	V.E.G. President. I had just planned to talk about the business of Bakka in the Northern Parliament. Good opportunity already is open to you. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir will discuss the matter. She doesn't think a minister can wait for an order. Now it is that the projects that are currently being carried out with the line layers require that we do not have freezing temperatures in the ground. We're entering October, hopefully not into hard winters, but winters where there is hope for everyone. The amount of time you can do is really getting shorter. This means that the planned projects will be delayed until the next spring, if they will be continued then. There's no doubt about it. I know that the northern part of Húsavík and the Northern Parliament are deeply concerned about how this case will unfold and what its outcome will be. Besides, I'd like to say that the credibility of the Icelandic government is totally going down if this case gets screwed up. It's not just nature, we all want it as much as possible. But we must also realize that we live in Iceland. They have to be able to use the land and nature to live here. At stake is the economic and economic security of the members of the Parliament and of the Northern Parliament if this issue collapses. If it doesn't matter. Of the fact that the Logos are being consulted, there are a lot of lawyers there. They work for different parties. [[The president calls.]] Surely, this is to be noted that the work of individual lawyers is not being mixed. This has been shown in the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u17	A respectable president. I'm not gonna talk about Bakka or LIN. But I'm going to talk about Donald Trump. I've been getting, as I understand a lot of other senators, mails from Donald Trump lately asking me to give him money. I don't know how he has come to the conclusion that I have something for him or how he has found out that I could choose him. [[Take it up: You've got to give...]] I'll never vote for him. I also get mail from his son. No matter how much I try to sign up for these mail lists, the mail is always coming. This weekend I asked Donald Trump to take me off this mailing list with an expression that I'm not going to repeat here. These mails from this man, this president of the United States, should serve as a reminder to us that it is so fancifully wrong to say that politics is not about anything, there is no difference between political ideals. There's a man who's a minister of misogynism, incorruption, he feeds on fear, doesn't pay taxes, I don't know what boundaries he doesn't cross when it comes to morality. I'd like to talk about it here because I just want to say in a sort of campaign for the sake of my party, up to the extent that I'm running an offer this time, how proud I am to be part of a political force that is totally on the other side of these values. On the page of the Social Science Institute, you can take a test: Where do the classes stand? Where do people stand against class? A bright future, the singlest category in Iceland, will score at the highest in international values. During this time of election, we have been regular Kingdom proclaimers of human rights. We've been on the watch when it comes to democracies, we've been looking for solutions, we've had a conversation between the two of us, we're an advocate of diversity. [[The president calls.]] If, like me, you don't find Donald Trump, you choose a bright future. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-04-163.u18	A respectable president. I can't get mail from Donald Trump. I don't like Donald Trump, but I'm not gonna choose a Bear Future. I'm going to make a subject of attack on health institutions in war - torn lands. According to international humanitarian laws and the legal right to health services, war protection is under way. Thus, there are attacks directed against health institutions, in effect, war crimes. Such attacks have increased in war - torn countries, such as the U.S. Syria, Afghanistan and Yemen. Such inhuman and illegal conduct could become a new reference, which is totally unacceptable. Therefore, I believe that the nations inside the United Nations, where we are founders of Iceland, should send a clear message to the world that the examples of attacks on health care and support such an organization as doctors without borders in fighting that this inhuman, illegal conduct will become a new criterion. Let us honor international humanitarian law as well as custom, which makes health service a protection during wars.
