ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Education and Culture asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 1235, of foreign studies, from Björt Ólafsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to direct an inquiry to the highest level. Prime Minister for a discussion that has been prominent and loud during the last few days, following the ordering of the Generalist for the Board of Directors and Control Committee for New Information on Personalization of the Banks, particularly a part of the German Bank Hauck & Aufäuser on this matter. There have been discussions, and various former ministers and others who have come to declare their interest, that these matters will be investigated, and that they will be considered as soon as possible. I wanted to go to the highest. The prime minister after his position on the matter and whether he will not agree that such a study will be proclaimed to strengthen his faith in Icelandic financial and Icelandic government systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u4	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, to say what has happened, including that the initiative taken by the Director of Congress, which he took to the Commission and Control Committee, is that there is - despite the fact that this case may be one of the most studied cases in Icelandic administration, i.e. The privatization of banks after the turn of the century - new information that might be interesting to shed light on, especially in that context, as well as on. A senator made it clear that we are faced with the prospect of identifying the financial market, how we want to see it in the future. In that light, I think it's useful, to learn a lesson, to examine how cases have developed at that time. During the council, we have established that the research committees that have once worked according to a framework that has not been financially or temporarily set. Therefore, it is a joy to see that the Commission and the Commission also discuss new laws on research committees so that they can be more specific. As far as I can see, it's some kind of down payment. At the same time, it is interesting to ask, in view of the fact that later personal advances on banks, whether there is no basis and practical wisdom, to learn a lesson before entering the financial market, to investigate the so - called later privacy, i.e. what happened after a crash and which was comparable to what the new law says, starting a study. I think it would be very sensible, but I'll say that it's good to have this part on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u5	A respectable president. I rejoice in the highest bidders of interest. Prime Minister on the case. I think it's shocking in many ways that the Council has not prospered, in all the years since this term, to be approved for a research committee in the privatization of banks approved during the last term. It is certainly a cause for joy, though it is late that new laws on research committees have advanced in the council. I just wanted to say, to mention that it must be important for us at the council and for the premeditation to take seriously the title of Councillor's agent who, as we all know, participated in a report of the General Assembly's research committee at its own time and knows the situation very well and has taken steps here and said that new information has developed that will change the case from what was previously known. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u6	A respectable president. It is true, as we have seen, that this matter is quite well investigated. The report of the Allegorical Research Committee, if I recall correctly, contains the dozens of pages, pages 70 to 771, that is exactly what it says on the subject. If you have new information there, I'm sure it's a good idea to consider. I think it would be wise to do so under the goal I have realized that a management and surveillance committee does, on the way that it is, to define the investigation better, and to look at it by new law. The same is true of what I mentioned about the privatization of the second, and also a report on the management and monitoring committee is being prepared by force. paritaprevir The wearer of the son of Níelsson, whose final words discuss the need to investigate the matter further. I think it would be wise for the council, so we can make better adjustments in the financial environment we see for the future, to get these things on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u7	A respectable president. So it is clear that there are a number of major issues discussed in the community debate that have to do with a service field at the highest level. Environment Minister, but perhaps not all, could be provided. At times, though, we have seen flashes of light in the air for years, as is true of Lake Mice and the pressures of the water, both by man and for other reasons. We see very serious signs in the biosphere and the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister has undergone this concern, and in fact he has said he would like to fight to get funding to support this small unit for irrigation purposes. There is another subject that has to do with the purchases, the possible purchases of the earth, i.e. The Frustration Earth and the jingle of Jack. This indicates that the earth is for sale, and by means of new natural protection laws, the premium of nature protection environments is permissible. This is an area that truly falls under that article. Similarly, the minister of the environment has declared that it is proper to try that the State should do so in any way, i.e. Publicity, perhaps even being guided or intended to fall under the lakeland's natural habitat. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, because she has previously expressed her interest in both of these matters in using her force as advocates of the seminary to get funding for these projects, what the situation is with regard to this project and her will in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u8	A respectable president. Thank you so much for these inquirys that have to do with our country's nature reservations. Happily, we have many such ones, some of which are firm within our rural society, who have relatively weak opportunities to cope with situations. We've been discussing Lake Mice, as the senator could do, the water itself, the resources as well as the smaller ones of the countryside as such. Of course, this is linked, but most of all, people have been worried about the water, and there is nothing new. That is why a special research center was set up there. I allowed me to give up the idea, and I can repeat it here that Hofgle has now come to belong to the State and that it would be clever for us to use that earth. Of course, it is one of the largest earth in crisis, and it could be used for farmers but at the same time be able to set up some kind of nest or nest, a center of knowledge where we can expand our research on both the water itself and the environment. There may be a meeting of one of the five institutions of the State, already located at Lake or near Lake and in mind of this area, as well as institutions. There are at least five institutions that could be there, and that's how I thought the job could flourish. It has also been discussed in this public address by the senator regarding the glacier or on the ground of falling. I'm sure most members of Congress saw that this was advertised in the papers this weekend, and I want to assure the Senate that we will be following closely, and then we can, on the basis of nature protection laws, as the senator was able to intervene if there are opportunities or funds to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u9	President. I'd like to thank the Minister for his answers, but please ask for an even clearer answer. I'd like to ask the minister straight out if there's any way of making money to support the Sputtahpp in a irrigation project. In this present year, that work must immediately be carried out. We know that. I'm asking the secretary if there was a meeting in the government, if it was discussed with the secretary of finance, to get funding for these projects. However, I would like to ask: Has this been discussed at comparable meetings, i.e. A government hearing, with prime minister or financial minister, to provide funding for the purchase of the Fells Earth in behalf of Lake Earth?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u10	A respectable president. Thank you so much for what I hear from what I hear. A senator, that I would highly support her in the requirement to war against the Ministry of Financial Affairs for additional funding or any other or how it would be placed and funded for the support of a Snurrell, both in the process of irrigation as well as in the use of research. However, I would like to mention that we immediately set up a committee that is due in 14 days, which is taking up key information. It is a natural, multitasked region, but perhaps as in the past, there is not quite a single spirit or a harmony to what to do. The company government is in there as well as the locals from different directions, and I hope that the conclusion will be decided to use a particular design there or an effort to handle matters further.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u11	President. I keep getting reports of how ill our health is. I haven't seen any of the emergency conditions that have been in for a very long time. But I just want to talk to the Minister about the gray areas, i.e. of the odd conditions of the service carts and who is responsible for what. I would like to start by referring to an example of a young man with a muscular atrophy disorder who suffered from cardiac arrest in March. Since then, he has recovered well but is still trapped in the Land Hospital. He can't get home because he doesn't fit into the system. He's trapped in some sort of hostage in a gray area of the system. Staying close to the Land Hospital because society can or does not want to give them the resources they have. Constant because the State can or does not want to give him human rights. Then you may ask, " Is it a systematic violation of human rights under the cover of a different administrative level that points the responsibility to one another? ' A DV report shows this, with the permission of a president: In accordance with DV information from the management system in Smokejanestown, the issue is about the vague limits that can exist between health and social services. Health services are under government custody, but social services in rural custody and the Friðrik business are actually falling between ships and docks, neither the local community nor the state, if they are prepared to pay for the care of Friðrik, and while they have to stay at the Land Hospital. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is there a basis for a review of some sort or for proposal to change someone to take responsibility for such matters? Does it eventually fail to fall on the state, and including this minister, to resolve complications in such gray areas so that patients will not be treated with a systematic violation of human rights? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. The candidate for the inquiry, which is very important and the nature of the matter, needs to be addressed. I'm not going to be able to express myself on unique matters that are intended for treatment. It is clear, however, that there are many gray areas, especially on health systems, insurance companies, and community services. Some mechanisms are being made to try to erase grey areas, even though they may still be working at all. Not far now. I don't know. A senator, e.g. to which the General has recently adopted a mental - health conference for the next year, in which one of the directives is to legalize the cooperation that is normally required between these services, government and rural society, and the activities of mental health. More metal groups can be handled for these reasons, e.g. for those who need home service. So it has been handled by the health - care department, which is certainly an example, and I take to heart the comments that make up for them. You're right. A senator here points to this situation as the service system is referred to, i.e. The community and the state, belong to each other in cases that are difficult to resolve. It is a self - righteous thing to consider each case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u13	President. This did not seem to me to have very clear answers. So I ask the minister, "What has the highest power?" To eliminate these gray areas, a minister made his office exactly? There was only one example I took here. On the other hand, I hear of these things every day. I can hear every day because our service systems are separated from what is to be the responsibility of our rural society and what is to be in the state in total disrepute. There's nothing new, and it knew the best. Of course, a minister when he accepted office. This is true of the health system, the services of the disabled. Everyone knows the administrative level isn't working properly together. I'm calling before the Minister leaves the office as the highest level. Healthcare Ministers present a very clear system of action that is understood by all, as well as by local communities, and that people of these differing government systems understand their responsibilities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] You can't take responsibility forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u14	A respectable president. I don't agree with what. A member of the body of health care professionals is constantly taking responsibility for situations like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u15	I wasn't saying that the medical staff did. Those responsible for the system become responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u16	In case of a moment. A senator would like to have someone answer here, so let us make sure that the person in a chair expresses himself, but do not communicate in the way that is offered here to bring something that does not exactly bring back. [[Up front.]] Yet, when it is said that the stories of a fragile system are constantly coming into play, there are good things in the health system to be maintained. When you call it what you get at the highest. Ministers have accomplished in their office, I would like to remind you of the regulations that have come to pass in the current approved policy since the council, and plans are being submitted to in order in 2017. There's a difference. Similarly, there is a requirement for health care in Reykjavík, where there is a multiracial work. In case of a moment. A senator thoroughly studied things, and he let everyone be truthful. A member of the council, perhaps in other ways. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u17	President. It was June, I'm sure, two years ago, that was approved by a very intensive Scientific and Technical Action Programme, for 2014◯2016. This is a very ambitious plan, and I asked questions about it and received an answer a few days ago from the highest level. Prime Minister and thank you for that. Unfortunately, when you look at it, it seems that the plan has not stood as if we were all sure of our hopes. I wondered if the same questions came to mind. When he read this, the prime minister came up to me. For example, it was aimed at providing financial resources for science and innovation to become 3% of 2016's GDP. However, the answer actually works out that the algorithm has been changed, so it cannot be compared. Based on today's calculus, the ratio is 1.89. I wondered: " How has this changed? Are we, then, in the same place today as are foreign nations that we compare ourselves with? Is the minister planning this? It's important to put in 3% once, and then you just say right now: It's not 3% because there are now some other methods of calculation. There is also another question that I would like to ask and feel that it is important that the same high school funding was to be achieved in 2016 as in OECD, and in 2020, as it is in northern countries. Then comes the answer, and it does not speak of OECD, but it is said that the same financing will be planned in 2020. How is the comparison with OECD now? [[The president calls.]] Has the highest. Is that true of prime minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that the strategy adopted in June 2014 was very ambitious. With the approval of the Generals, we have made significant contributions to the research funds, with the objective of reaching the 3% previously considered. As I have understood the matter, the ratio of 1.89% is better compared to the analysis abroad, and has not been before there is a similar objective in itself. I guess it would have to be revised. There is a planned meeting in the Scientific and Technical Council over the next few weeks and will definitely be an opportunity to discuss it there. It is true that the plan was very ambitious and this aspect of it has worked very well, i.e. The increase in money from the state, and in the same way investments have also increased in the economy, although you always wanted to get better results, it was part of the plan to encourage them. About the other question. A senator, on the funding of the university system, is correct that the financial programme for the next five years does not clearly define how to increase either the financial resources to the university or at least raise each student, to the beat of OECD, where we are halfway to the North countries, if I remember correctly, the northern countries are on top of it. It is a road that we will take a closer look at, and I remind you that in the financial program, there are, of course, a reserve that builds up each year at 15 billion in 2021, starting at 7, where not all plans have been implemented and how the Kingdom will meet its goals. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u19	A respectable president. I'm not in any political dispute at all. I'm just trying to get out what's going on in this very important part of the construction of the economy. It's, for example. It's a pleasure to see in such a national cake that you've got something called ◯ÖNEKU, and it's over 10%. Surely all of us want to work at that. Then I'd like to say that it's been very good to me through life, when I'm looking at what's my job to, just saying the facts exactly as they are, but not as I feel there's a little bit in this answer, a little bit the other way, it's better to say things exactly as they are. Now, this programme is in 2014-2016, and I'd like to ask a minister if we're planning a new operation plan and how far it's gone. Has he started it yet?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u20	A respectable president. As I went over earlier, there is a meeting in the Scientific and Technical Council that will be the first person I ever steered. I expect a chairman and a vice president to come to me for the next few days in order to review these matters and will be happy to provide more clear and better information and answers to questions. The senator, and he shall bring them to the senator about unique factors and as well as the questions that were addressed to me about the proportions, how they are exactly, because I don't have them in my head to be told. Although the answer may have been quite long and thorough, the answer is quite near. A senator that sometimes a short answer is clearer than a long text, but this was an attempt to address the questions presented and explain them in a very large way. But finally, I want to agree with what. A senator of the enormous importance of research, innovation, and thus quicker support for society, employment, and the development of our society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u21	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, who is relevant to the case very well acquainted with the former marine and agricultural minister and local minister, what would delay the proposal of a committee and then agree to a government's action to support the assumptions of Gambiey. The very brief story is that the initiative of the city of Akureyri was arranged by a committee of representatives from the town, graffiti, business banks of the largest outputs, and representatives of the Norwegian Parliament group that were signed and signed. paritaprevir Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son. That committee gave up a court order about a year ago in the main four main steps, clearly specific suggestions. It was based on a 400 tons, with improvements in transport and mainly increasing the number of the Giorese vectors, measures in the sexual cost and energy of the island, and fourth, in various general urban development measures, in transport services, and in various ways, depending on the advantages of the project Freight settlements. Although the nominees were working with this for several months and time was fast, the main points were the proposals of the original Giriman Committee, made them theirs, suggested them with a government, and the government accepted suggestions in the late autumn of the year. Now, the main factors are the actions related to structured docetanes and no improvement in transport. There's no place in the transport program or anywhere else, so I know. Today it is not important to increase the number of Searides, such as those of the local inhabitants and industry, between four and five trips a week and adapt the plan to the needs of the workplace and the local people. That last trip before the weekend, on Fridays, we shall not return to our country until the end of the week. 16 So that the local people will put their resources on the market before the weekend, etc. It's not about a lot of money. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister, was the subject addressed to him in the beginning, and it was a matter of many departments: Is it not clear that the government will implement these proposals, including improving transport immediately during this spring? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. He did well over the big part of the case. What he released and isn't a direct approach to the state was that the companies there were also in conversation with their bank, let's say, in order to obtain a solution that was the State could do by their actions, that the bank could then meet these parties clearly. I know it took a long time. That's what happened to you. A senator has taken care of the settlements and the project manager and everything that helps with this work. There's been a change in the ferry cruises, the delay in Friday, and a little while ago I asked for information from the State Department of State, who was protecting communication between the ferry and the Ministry, to get a clearer answer. It seemed unclear whether the planned delay, which was till the time of the day. 18 on the day if I recall correctly, I prayed to make sure that the force that would be then loaded onto board or made it into trucks. I think there's something going on there, but there's been some work going on. It is true that very large sums of money are not being played there. I guess it'll be settled in the next few days when it's clear. Regarding even more cruises between places, these suggestions followed the approval of the budget and the search for ways to fulfill that promise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. I'm glad to hear that he's been tracking the case on business banks, the business bank, which may have been the same bank in the case of the three largest projects. Then, of course, he was in the process, was included in the original committee, and was quite clear that his lot had to follow through. It's happened in my opinion in an acceptable way, at least the table has resolved in two or three cases and/or suggestions. In the Sports Plans it's the other thing that needs to be started right away, then it's clear that policies on the future energy issues, initiatives on the island and other measures like this take more time, all of them admit. However, it is extremely important to make this experiment together, and it is especially during the summer, since Gímeys are better equipped for coastal fishing and more parts. It's about small amounts of money, like the highest. A minister rightly mentioned, and another thing now the government has done when it comes to implementing its own proposals, agreeing to request an extra bail, and so initiate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u24	A respectable president. I come up here to reiterate that the government's clear policy is, of course, completing this matter. Transport factor has been delayed, including Because of financing and, on the other hand, perhaps, it was not completely clear whether the ideas that were in human possession were accurate to the task. However, it has also been observed regarding transport that certain factors have already been taken into account that have already been taken care of inexpensive transport to islanders. What has survived is the growth of Sports, and I expect that the issue will soon be explained so that they will be docked before long.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u25	Mr. President. We're here to vote for reimbursement for filmmaking. Here's a suggestion to raise the payment rate from 20% to 25% and to look to Iceland's competitiveness toward other countries, which have been the target and have offered, for example, Norway and Ireland. I think it's a very good thing for the construction of the film industry here. It's a good land fair, and it's made a lot of money to Iceland's community because of its growing well-being and activities here on the land. I believe this has been a very good land espionage and will continue to do so, but we have to keep up with this, make sure that the natural world is well cared for, and that there are laws and rules regarding labour markets in this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u26	V.E.G. President. I am glad that this matter has come for a vote here. The government has emphasized how to take part in creating a better opportunity for all jobs in the country, including work on this field, innovation, and development in this very exciting region that has paid a lot of money for society. This matter has been emphasized by the candidates for a very long time; in our time many years ago, it was started. In recent years, all classes here at the council have understood that this is important in creating other jobs and many activities that many are involved in. I just wanted to come up here and be happy it was for a vote. This will bring much back to society in the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u27	A respectable president. I want to come up here to thank you. It's a job committee for handling this case until 2nd. so quickly and especially to thank for the much solidarity in the matter. Yesterday's discussion made it clear that this is one of these issues that we can all agree on. There is reason to rejoice over this. We already see the results of this, planned investments in this country, but such plans have been reported. So I want to take advantage of this vote and thank the Committee and the Congress for having a solidarity on this vital matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u28	A respectable president. We in the United States support this matter as we have always done; we have either handled matters like this or have supported them. During our last term, we took the reimbursement to 20%, and at that time there was a bit of opposition, so we worked at a considerable amount of work to sum up what this would mean, i.e. how this affects the Icelandic economy. These surveys showed that the effects of this work are tremendous. There are many more than we realize. It is not just an important movement in the economy; it is not just a variety of jobs; it is also an enormous land presentation, so the impact is widespread. I'm glad we're standing, once again, parapolitic, in raising this rate. I hope we will make even more money and this solidarity will continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u29	A respectable president. The main purpose of the bill we are here to vote on is to grant the Agency authorization for a curative service by the Agency but to this day has not been authorized to charge. I'll support the case, but I'll sign the committee's opinion in advance. That's because I think it's very important, and I want to make it right here, that the Land Hospital will be assured of funding on funds due to the increase in hospital expenses that are expected to be due to this bill. Although I support the case, I believe it is very important to maintain that the National Hospital must obtain additional funds if it comes to his having more expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u30	V.E.G. President. There was concern over the welfare committee. paritaprevir The Steinunn Árnadóttir Yearstóttir mentioned, but information on the Committee stated that the land hospital's expenses on these matters will be insignificant and beds within the budgets - if not, it will be considered - and that this is mostly towards the immigrants of these medical equipment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u31	A respectable president. It's a good thing we're changing the law on the IIloni research committees. I miss the fact that no more members of Congress are required, i.e. that 32 members of Parliament are needed to accept a investigation made by the Council. In fact, the evidence may be reasoned that there should be an increased proportion to the approval of members of the council. A greater proportion of these rules would be prevented by research committees being used to attack political opposers. I've been through this before at the council, but unfortunately, my tips have failed to find their way into the work of the Board of Directors and Control Committee. I'm going, for example. to point out that when the most investigated case of the last term was adopted, to initiate a study of the council's previous privatization of banks, there were only 24 members of the council who approved that large investigation. It's a failing of the law, a respectable president, but I'm still on the side of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u32	Mr. President. I'd like to state that I don't agree as well. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and something could be. I find it strange to think that there is a special barrier to the idea that the Council can decide to investigate a case and should agree on a special agreement that is non-relevantly adopted to the decision of the Generals here, that there are a majority of their support, that there are enough members of the Parliament who participate in votes. [[Up front.]] What should be the reason to put special stones in the way that the Council can investigate matters if so and for the majority's will? It's an amazing statement, and it's coming out of my most intense direction. I'm pleased with these changes and recommend that they approve of this bill. This will help to ensure that the necessary research that is clearly needed to take place can be started and that after these legislation has arrived, they need nothing more than to ensure sufficient financial resources to be handled properly and properly in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u33	V.E.G. President. I'm here to celebrate our vote in the 3rd Environment. On these major issues, which include a new court, a court of the land, to become a reality. We remember here in Iceland, we have three points of judgment. These issues involve significant adjustments in the administrative capacity of the courts, a great improvement in the rights. More important, the principle of direct evidence is now in effect at two levels of judgment. It's a huge correction. It's a big step. I want to congratulate all of us and thank the General and Education Committee for an excellent cooperation in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u34	A respectable president. I'm on the side of this case, I agree with you because it's a great improvement. It is worth noting, however, that in the treatment of this case there were a wide range of viewpoints in the community over a number of comments relating to the legal system and the judicial system in Iceland. I'm alone in saying this isn't over. This has also been observed, including in a committee's list. The General and Education Committee, that a bill will appear in the order of a judge, so there are some things to discuss, and worth holding it to. I would like to mention this in particular because there have been extensive tips that have been criticized that were not taken into consideration. It is important to remember, though, that it takes more time to have some of the overall reviews of the judiciary system. It is therefore important, I think, to keep our judgment system in order that our judgment system is not perfect, that it needs to be examined in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u35	A respectable president. The members of the United States will support this whole affair. It is proper, though, to think that we, a member of the government stand, have moved an adjustment to the case that it requires a greater part of the paid votes at the council chamber so that a minister may be disfellowshipped from a panel's decision at the order of the judges. That suggestion was ignored, and of course we regret it, for it would have been such a normal and right step to agree with the adjustment proposal. However, in view of the main issues involved in the entire justice system, we follow the procedure, but we will strengthen our conviction that this project is not completed. Icelandic legal reforms need to be continued, for as shown in the previous speaker's case, there have been many comments and tips for the council and the government to take seriously and work more with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u36	Mr. President. I agree with what. The last two members of the council here, and indeed the president of the General and Education Committee, also and thank you for the cooperation of the Committee. I think this is an important step in what we're doing here to fix our legal system and move our time even more than we've been doing. I have warned the matter about financing, I believe we already have a financial system and have, among other things, been identified as a local case, and so on. Nevertheless, we will left with greenness to support this case, for it is a step in the right direction and something we need so only to continue working on and have been announced here, including regarding the order of the judges.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u37	A respectable president. After working in the judiciary system as an assistant to a judge for a few years, I realized that there are many things that are lacking, such as in other places. I especially want to be happy that we are reaching the stage where direct evidence will be made at two levels. This has been a case of cleaning the court, and this has been during the discussion with judges and lawyers for a long time. What a joy it is to be a part of the arrangement! I'm also glad that the General and Education Committee is counting material to continue the justice system discussion in Iceland because I think that to improve the performance of judges and conditions, they will be 100% independence in their professions, but there have been discussions that they may not be in all cases. That discussion does not help the judiciary, the General, or other institutions of this country. [[The president calls.]] I'm glad we're running out of this and thanking the General and Education Committee especially and Minister of Homeland for completing this situation so handsome.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u38	A respectable president. In the bright future, we support this matter. I'd also like to thank my colleagues on the General Information and Education Committee for my cooperation. I believe it is important that we agree to be at one committee party in this case and show solidarity, as it turns out from the Commission's review that we share more and less the same doubts about the case, which are torn in the committee's opinion. The case is very good, and hopefully it will do its part to improve the courts. The importance of justice in the community does not have to be largely debated. Of course, during the review of the committee, it was sobering to consider how clearly the critics appeared on the courts and the situation of the courts in Iceland. This may not be surprising because huge pressures have taken place in the courts recently. This bill aims to try to disseminate stress. There are major problems ahead of us regarding the courts, such as trying to get the perspective of the appointment of judges, the maintenance of the courts in the future, and so do I think that those who turn to the courts will have to be discussed indiscriminately and much more. [[The president calls.]] So it's not over yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u39	V.E.G. President. Like what? Þórhallsson I've worked my entire career on this system, and I can tell you right here that I would like to have things different from that bill. I still support this bill because the main prince in it is that everyone can get a review, that's what it's all about. On the other hand, I propose that a body of councils go over the main problems in this judicial system, fix what is to be fixed, and do it better. It is so important that it works well and people get faith in the courts and their entire system. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u40	A respectable president. I can see from the vote table that this adjustment proposal doesn't work and that it comes here like old Kató, and again that the court should be called a court order. It's kind of amazing to me that a world of Congress does not see the truth in it and that it prefers the concept that is more luminous and luminary in the legislation. Still, I must submit to that conclusion and find it sour.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u41	Mr. President. I believe that we members of Congress have the right to get an explanation for why a government or a minister wishes to put this big issue on schedule and to have a variation as late as possible. This is a very large and very controversial case. You wonder what the purpose of the government is by trying to squeeze it here into the council's work during the last days of this council, at least this spring. It is important to know that at both this vote and before the discussion begins, a variation will be accepted, whether this is merely a presentation or possibly a review before the summer or whether the government will really think that such a big deal will get some sort of payment here in a few days. So I'd like to hear what the plan is behind putting this big issue in, which is pretty much on the boat on this dissociative list that I think, in this way right here and now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u42	A respectable president. I recommend a synonym to the resolution of the European Union and Iceland Convention on Transboundary Trades that were signed on September 17 of the past. However, even if the EEA treats in itself as a business enterprise, the contract still contains regulations that allow regular discussions of trade with traditional agricultural products. The agreement on that basis was the first time from the implementation of the EEA Convention in 2007. He expected a reexamination within two years. In addition, the book 3 contains the Convention on Business Remuneration with the agricultural products, which was last revised in 2001. In May 2011, a stakeholder requested that a consultation with the EU be made with the increased toll free imports, particularly for lamb and skis. In this regard it was repeated on the part of the government that the increase in market availability on the EU market would be expected to meet EU easy access requirements in the Icelandic market. On June 19, 2012, the current government adopted new discussions with the EU and concluded with the signing of a contract on September 17, 2015. In view of conventional products, the main outcome of the contract is that in addition to Iceland's introduction to other species of meats into the EU, we have large increases in food and water imports for the European Union. Instead, there is a significant increase in current tax-free receipts for the EU and open a bid for poultry to this country. In order to create scope for adaptation for these habitats, the increase in quatanecies will be carried out over a period of up to four years from the entry of the contract. This means that the contract can be expected to be fully implemented in 2021. With regard to the products, all customs fall down except on yogurt, butter, and ice, which will be considered among the sensitive products of Icelandic agriculture. Otherwise, tolls are combined in about 100 new toll lines and are negotiated for a reduction in 20 others, but this is not expected to have a major impact on domestic production. It is proper to assume that marine eco-efficiency and agricultural ministers set up a government and farming team and the manufacturer's support for this, among other things. to assess the impact of this contract and after an incident suggests response, especially in the case of poultry and pigs. Working on final ideas about certain types of action that should be given to the head of a foreign committee. I suggest, a respectable president, following this discussion, the proposal will be referred to a second discussion and why. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u43	Mr. President. I think it's an incredibly short plot for such a big deal. Where was the argument about the impact of this contract for domestic agriculture, food production, community relations, and so forth? Perhaps there would have been a reason why the spokesman for the case, although surely a minister of foreign affairs is not the Minister of Ministers, would now be a bit over the case, and probably the Ministry of proselytism could have helped the Ministry of State with a little information and reasoning in his speech. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of State on one relatively specific feature of this case, that is the question of mutuality in a contract when a population of 330,000 people were born at 500 million markets. What's the bottom line? Minister of State on the views you've heard in many countries that it's a little far gone, a ton ton, or even to a limp in Iceland, in view of the huge difference in the size of the people you're dealing with? Is normal e.g. In the pig meat that it is just opening a ton to a ton, any very uncertain possible export options for the reduced EU customs? In other places, in the poultry, there's a straight leaning on us, and the innovators on beef are completely one-sided. Of course, they can say that we get something in return, since we get tollocates in the quas and lamb that don't cross the other side, but there's a big difference in markets there. I think very much about how this case could end up in numbers and relationships like this, especially in this view, since it is of course obvious that our vulnerable little market is so much more sensitive to such things than 500 million people marketed by the European Union, where it is so within the confines, that the effects are hardly apparent by the enlargement of glass that could potentially be on the market in Europe. [[The president calls.]] But to us, this is a major influence.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u44	A respectable president. I believe in these contracts there is also a certain opportunity for Icelandic farmers. Icelandic agriculture cannot be based solely on domestic production. Increased access to foreign markets is essential. The contract is not to be sacrificed, but there are certainly challenges for producers, and that is why they come to work in a few years. In some areas competition may increase, but opportunities for export are far greater than ever before. Of course, all of this needs careful consideration. It is a time of adjustment, but it is also an opportunity.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u45	Mr. President. I don't know if you can call an adjustment period of two years or one year, a few years. In the pork and poultry, the first phase goes into effect during the contract year and the rest of the year. It's not much of a lead-in period, I think. In other cases, it is more than four years. I'd like to ask the highest, too. A minister for the production of the paper in which it is almost granted that farmers themselves asked for this, even asking pig farmers to ask for it themselves in 2011. That is a ridiculous explanation of history, and in view of the dissatisfaction reported by farmers by the 2007 agreements, which, in their opinion, were strongly one - sided about the knots. Their thinking was to obtain correction. Where did pig farmers, or poultry farmers, find that the European Union was allowed to import more toll free, as the report almost puts it? I'm critical of that. It is not acceptable for those who are well - acquainted with history to get such destructive propaganda texts from some government official or minister who are trying to save themselves in the country. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is the Ministry not prepared to perform a remedy for this and at least Does this mean that there will be further support and articles on the leading of the matter to the members of the Parliament, who will likely be two who will need to discuss this? Regarding my initial question of what is normal when such large markets are involved in negotiations, I missed only a little more response, unless it's really the feeling of the government that the benefits, risks, or losses in these contracts can be completely balanced. I find that quite remarkable in our Icelandic dwarf market when the result is more and less ton to a ton or less than that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u46	A respectable president. In the letter referred to from the serpent. The speaker and the phrase in a paper with the proposal referred to would do well to state that nothing in that expression indicates that the agreement presented here is made with the special support of farmers. The wording reflects communication between the stakeholders and the Agricultural Ministry in 2011 where pig and poultry farmers insisted that they be safe at the same table on the EU market as the EU farmers in this country, i.e. that mutual attachment would be guaranteed. It is reported that farmers are opposed to this contract. To say, I understand the concern of farmers, and I hope that there will be a common understanding between government and prayer for certain ways that can be used to soften the effects that may be possible. That conversation has taken place recently and continues, as far as I know it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u47	A respectable president. I come from a different direction to this than a senator last year's answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u48	That's good.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u49	It is healthy and should identify this hall that there are many points of view here. I think it will mark the world in the 21st century that there will be a greater demand for healthy food, good food, a lower risk of overproduction, and that it will affect Icelandic agriculture. Although we are in a peripheral area, we produce very good food. We produce fish without state support and export, and I think it's positive about the livestock deal, which has many controversial regulations, and the positive things we're discussing that we're moving towards this world. In that world, patrons are absurd because they have to be able to get their product publicized in a world beyond what is wanted for healthy food. So I would like to see and believe that in the future we will see further steps toward delinquency of customs and the tax-free trade between countries. What impresses me on this whole matter is that I have heard and received it confirmed, including from a former marine road and agricultural minister, that farmers have offered in these contracts an entirely non-toll-free trade with lamb between the EU and Iceland, that all customs would be eliminated, but the EU did not agree. I find this interesting because I think that makes it clear that by doing so, there is another reason not to go down in the EU. In particular, there have been two reasons not to walk in the EU, I know this is a big matter, one on the part of the marine road, and the interests of agriculture. If farmers and authorities in the United States are seeing as an ideal option in the near future to have a tax-free trade with the EU with agricultural products, is it not, then, at least, the agrienvironmental logic of failing in the EU? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd appreciate it if I could hear an answer from the highest level. Secretary of State on that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u50	A respectable president. I don't think so. But I'm not going to get into the discussion about EU costs and defects at this point. I believe in the currently available contract there is a particular opportunity for farmers, as I mentioned. However, there are adjustments that need to be made, and we are considering them and how we may be able to soften the effect of certain articles. We will see what will be the outcome of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u51	A respectable president. I'm not asking for a discussion on the advantages and defects of the EU Member States in a broad context but merely to say that so far it has been said that a very high toll and tollgamur needs to be protected from the import of the EU. I find the news of the Convention and the domestic agreements are that there are at least some in the agricultural sector and the agricultural authorities in Iceland, and many farmers beginning to realize that there is a potential for agrienvironmental trade with the European Union because there is a demand for Icelandic food. I think it's a good thing because of that, too. that we too can enjoy that freedom on the side of the import of food, and we can build a flourishing agriculture that doesn't need the state strength that we now take into it from public funds. I think it's a good thing, and these are opportunities that I see in this. I'm not asking for the benefits and defects of the EU Member States in a broad context but merely saying that I find clearly the part of the argument against walking in the EU, which is also the case. This customs alliance, to protect domestic agriculture is down, because we have an example of the most important aspect of Icelandic agricultural production, for the lamb, that farmers have carried out customs-free business entirely with the EU, requiring that customs be dropped, although the competition of lamb meat is not so great with European countries, it has been rejected by the European Union. Then, no matter what other aspects of the matter may be said, the next step for farmers is clearly to fight for involvement in the European Union and thus enjoy tax - free business.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u52	A respectable president. This is a very interesting and interesting discussion. I have full faith in Icelandic agriculture and believe that it is very competitive. I think we see it all over the markets where those products are offered and I think there's nothing but positive about saying. But now we are discussing this deal, and we are working on it and its adaptation to the Icelandic market. We'll see what lays ahead, and I hope that he's the one that's going to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u53	Mr. President. It is so that with this agreement, toll agreement with the European Union, and the domestic agreement under discussion during the days that, when combined, agriculture faces some of the greatest changes in its long-term work environment. I'm sorry, but I don't think that in either case it's done well. I am deeply concerned about a number of things that are drawing up, on behalf of Icelandic agriculture and the production of food in the coming years. It was signed without consulting with the agriculture last year. Of course, there were strong protests to the arts, strange tactics, where two parishion Party ministers with different plots about things. This is not merely a matter of what can be said on individual meats directly, such as the pig farms, the poultry production, or the beef production, but as a whole, there is an Icelandic agricultural product and Icelandic carnivore and food industry and harvests and trades on crops and resources to this article, for all of these factors have an impact on the future. For example, butchering and extracting may be used in the meat branches. The production of pork, and especially the production of families scattered throughout the country, is of utmost importance because it is the basis for brain healing and very important raw materials into the carnivore, resulting in hundreds of jobs and extensive activities. The same can be said of food prices and resources. Since farms are very large in feed purchases, they are largely below the distribution costs and supply of food in the country's territory. If they fall off, what a shock it is for the other articles, who will likely have to buy their valuable prices and thus continue to be counted. In fact, pig farmers, and poultry also, now take billions of dollars for the induction of new equipment regulations and for increased animal travel, which, of course, we want to be done and farmers themselves want to be done. However, they ask for someone comparable to that of a member of the competitive world. I'm not talking about if they're to be thrown into more competition at the same time. But it's not for leaving. Support to the name that humans have claimed to be ready for here is a fraction of what people have access to in countries that are likely to take advantage of tollathans. When this adds up to the fact that at the same time, Iceland's health and loyalty rules and we can have a real fight about whether or not we can still ban the import of raw meat and raw food in order to protect our livestock and our loyalty and wholesome production. The second-time customs policy here is quite remarkable that when the independent and forward groups are together in control, they face threats to agriculture, of course, to combat the development of the Icelandic agricultural field that we would have liked to see, that we provide a wide variety of productions, that we strengthen our family units and resist the industrialisation of agriculture, that we support the agriculture in the continuous development in order to use the least and most of the drugs, to set ourselves ambitious goals of the kind. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson said that during the days, we endeavored that, within years, there is no place in the use of genetically modified materials in food and so on. It would be nice to talk about such things, if there were any ambitions and prospects. It is just one of the characteristics of the Icelandic agricultural industry that frees them from the use of antibiotics and makes a good contribution to the demand, and hopefully the trend will come toward it. I have previously made comments in my presentation of the case. I have to add that, because I know a little bit about it. So it was that I had a meeting with all the major European directors in this field at the beginning of 2012, with marine legislatures and legislators, the enlargement manager, and what was their names all together. In one of those meetings, this problem was carried on by the 2011 smoldering system wishes that Iceland could obtain evicted exports in connection with customs for lamb meat and snorkel. And how did the European Commission respond to those meetings? Yes, they were alone that they would be interested in taking up the originals and the rules that followed, which we thought were wise and did not see problems with regard to the protection of the promises that would lead to their origin. I hope my words are accepted in these matters. That's the way it was. Therefore, I do not know what is the basis for claiming that on the European Union it has already been clear that they would require full cooperation in opening tollovata, since this was the case with the meetings. I'm sure there's a note from those meetings, if not already in the State Department, that I'm assuming the officials of the Ministry were with me, or at least. They've sold in Brussels, they can be provided at the Department of Agriculture or the Ministry of Professional Road and Development. It was like this. We went home and started what was said on the part of the European Union, that we would take up the rules of origin and the protection of vows, and that has already been done by the General. We'd got them back by now. So here we do deal in 2015, which surprises you and the European Union's large imports on products that have already become competitive, as has already become the case. Played with the receipts that are available today in pork. The reason the import has increased as rapidly as it has been seen in pork, poultry, and beef is not just because of the lack of goods in Iceland but also because customs protection has leaked. She does so even. By using the toll free quatans to bring in the most valuable muscle, and thus fill up the amount, come and say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Then we'll have to get them back. They need to be restarted. I don't think it's necessary to say, as it is, that the Ministry has not been successful enough in this regard. And then entering a one - sided addition to such large quantities, where the import has already been made to 20◯30% of the market, that is more than that. Is that why people are willing to split up, if not even completely dead? I think the reality is that a family camp in a pig farm is not gonna be able to handle this. In this way, do they measure their status, and do others know better about what is coming around them? If they're going to pick up the cleaning rules and go billions of dollars because of this without further support, at least as far as we can tell. They then appreciate it so that there is no point in trying to do so and will rather seek the support of the State - for what? Reservation. So they can stop rather than get involved in the uncertainty. Is this what the Independence Party government wants from the forward party? Is that true? To sit down with the conclusion that half - whole branches of the agricultural system are more likely to stop? There would be some monuments people would have enjoyed building themselves, wouldn't they? I think there's a lot of money here that needs to be done well. Why, then, do humans not come close in a similar way than when the vegan agreement was made at the time, that to the extent of its disappearance, customs protection will be replaced by direct support? Why not? Now everyone isessing how well they did there, when the 2007 treaties were dropped toll on the vegetables. But there was a commitment agreement, which is still worth over a billion dollars for gardening. If there were something here in the maps that would provide handsome support for pig farmers and poultry to meet the cost of cleaning rules and then some sort of contract for support that would replace the lost toll protection, then there is someone conscious of this. In my opinion, it is a complete time error to weaken the foundations of sustainable food production in Iceland. The nation produces just about half of its own food needs. All over the world, people are competing to increase their food security and to be as much self - sufficient as possible. It also involves the environment because, of course, it has become recognized that some form of monolocthurt development in these chemicals and transport of world food amongst those which are related to pollution and the negative impact on ecosystems is not the future we should pursue. There's a lot to think about, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u54	A respectable president. We'll discuss a proposal to conspire about the confirmation of EU and Iceland's agreement on agricultural trade. In many ways, the agricultural environment in Iceland and the agriculture in Europe may be described as being different. In the United States, we have relatively few agricultural equipment, a handful of habitats we have decided to protect, preferably carnivore production and milk production, and a certain part of the vegetable production that we do not want to lose. I have to say here at the beginning of the discussion about this contract that I don't think it's balanced. There's no balance in this deal. The talk was fine. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's character in what this imbalance is. I also feel that there is an imbalance between the habitats agreed on in the contract. One, two habitats are taking on heavy loads to help with business relationships or access to other habitats. Perhaps it can be reasoned in a way that has been done in public discussion, that there are branches that can be much more competitive, but we will still be unable to discuss this matter with another subject under discussion at the council, which is a contract. Must be said that we are in a very strange discussion about how tax money can leak into another market in support of agricultural production in Iceland, including the European market in this case, if new sources are agreed on here. It's a very peculiar and strange discussion, but let's not despise it and simply face it. But here we are opening up more of the import of livestock paid by some of the other taxpayers, so let's figure it out. I can't imagine building this agreement on the attitude of farmers to attend increased exports in the European market, which I know well available in councils of years earlier. Just like what? paritaprevir The rock mask J. Sigfússon quoted earlier when he was a member of the Ministry of these cases, and I had my previous access to this category, which was primarily a response to a customs agreement made in 2007,22008, which was very one-sided in the same way as this agreement, if compared to a balance between habitats. Also, I can't help it because I feel very strange when it comes to putting an equal amount of European markets and markets into large markets, kilograms and pounds. I think it's almost amazing that we're going to have to sign these contracts. Then, too, let us see what the situation is. Today's the situation is that we're importing 141⁄215% of all the meat we're eating on land. That is far beyond the international agreements that we have signed to provide market access. Let us also remember, however, that there are differences between breeds, which vary between species of meat. So, that's 303/40% of all the beef being moved into the country, as it stands for today. There is far more evidence that we have failed in a agricultural policy in Iceland than anything else. I miss the fact that we're not actually talking on a much broader basis about how we're going, for example. to fulfill the big words in the Treaty of this government's growing food production. Is that the answer? I think I'm going to have to ask myself, in spite of being a member of the board and supporting this government. It doesn't really rhyme with me. But one day I may be able to open my eyes to it. [[Take it up: does not combine sound and image.]] It doesn't match sound to image in this case. For us, these few producers in Iceland would have been much more valuable if this route was gone -- now I'm going to say that I'm not opposed to taking mutual contracts with agricultural products unless less important, I believe that we also have applies options and, like, then there. The minister of state told us in his history that we cannot build the Icelandic agriculture simply by looking to an domestic market. We need access to other markets. But this conclusion and this development with such a misdemeanor between the habitats, who really have no chance of getting any good at foreign markets, such as pig and chicken farms, as they do today at least, simply cannot succeed. We do not see the evidence in this contract that we can, in some way, move further forward and draw out the special status of our agriculture in Iceland, which includes in low drug use. Drug abuse is associated with a growing problem that health authorities around the world are ever more focused on, multi-drug resistant bacteria. The latest issue of Economist discusses the major health problems now culminating in the world. Is there any limits to this in the growing import and response to the public health concerns involved? In connection with this discussion, we have been told that we cannot maintain the prohibition on fresh meat. I don't agree with that. I'm not going to go into the discussion here, but if we have to compromise on that subject, we'll have to get along with the authority that at least we can do the research on imported meat that we don't increase the risk of importing such antibiotics that are resistant. Farming as a unit is more or less built on the white meat sector. It may be a worn - out trick to talk about it and how bad it is to get through in a general discussion that, of course, pig farmers and chicken farmers are no different than other farmers, and they are just as important to the whole farm as the whole of their cattle and sheep farmers. In Eyjafjörður alone, so I name a place outside my district, there are over a thousand agricultural jobs. It's about the interests of these people that we're working on with the contracts we're discussing today. I also realize that in the waste and implementation of agricultural contracts, this toll agreement was one of the terms of that contract, length, and results of their agreements. In a way, it was a prerequisite for signing. I'm not going to belittle it. But I'm going to let myself say that considering how the contract is built up and how defective it is technically, for example. With regard to the sorting and order of toll numbers, and how to apply it, I will only say here that if I had been in another place of my life, i.e. Where I was sitting before, I would have simply cut down the agricultural negotiations when this conclusion began to be sparked, and made a broader conversation with the government about how we would see the land for ourselves in the future. I'm not saying with this that there is absolutely no hope in the future, even though this deal is ahead of me, even though I'm not going to be a special fighter for him to make it here. But I would like to end my talk by saying that this discussion is not always allowed to be put in such a way that although I disagree with this customs agreement, I am somehow against the interests of consumers. It's just as much as I am. I don't think we've grown up the discussion in recent years that needs to be done about such things. We agree on a particular basic prince anywhere we stand in the food trade and production category in Iceland, whether we stand by the producers, the recycling industry, or the store. We've decided a long time ago to provide market access to a domestic stock market. We have done so in order to provide Icelandic production with a set price and quality, etc. We have also agreed that the import should not destroy the requirements for production in Iceland on certain farms. It's the subscription. That's your goals. On the other hand, we have allowed it to go unnoticed by discussing our entire chain of values on how we should achieve those goals and put together at the table of the parties to attend. We are present with a discussion in which each leads to another, especially since we have an exceptionally poor information source and the presentation of statistical information, in a bad case called ◯statistique, on production costs, production statistics, and on the effects of various changes in the markets here. Although I'm not a particular amateur of the fact that this contract will be realized, although I had a complete basis for his existence and the other factors involved in the agriculture, I don't agree that I am there in some way opposed to consumer interests. That is not so, for consumers are nothing but people, and these are primarily national interests for ourselves that we always need to talk about and must never lose sight of.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u55	V.E.G. President. At last we're going to discuss a proposal for the resolution of the EU and Iceland contract on agricultural trade, a contract that the Ministers of the Agency made with the European Union. When the contract was made, it was said that an upcoming domestic contract would have to be taken into account. This case goes on according to the State Department of State, but I believe a professional committee also needs to get the case informed and review it. During the discussion and work of the Committee on a new domestic agreement, much was associated with this tax agreement and in many ways. I don't know exactly where to begin in this relationship in the ten minutes that we're meant to discuss a synopsis proposal for a previous discussion. It is to be noted that this is an additional import of certain types of meat products, cheeses, and so on. At the same time, keep in mind what conditions have been like in the past few years. Whether it's because of a large increase in the number of tourists or a change in consumption in the country, we need to keep in mind that by 2015 - this is good data received by a professional committee from the head of Southland's Warthmus Association - we brought in 1,500 tons of poultry. If the import had been modified and I intend to compare it with a bone, then there are 1,500 tons or 18% of domestic markets. For beef, we moved in 2015 into 1,400 tons or 39% of the population and our guests. Of pork, we moved in 964 tons, or 15% of our consumption or annual demand. Other meat products contain about 65 tons. It is a total of less than 4,000 tons, and if we take the special beef, it is necessary to import it to meet the market as here, and I repeat to us citizens and our tourists. Much has been observed in the work of the employment committee on the implementation of this import, tollovates, and tolls on the target. For example, this morning it was observed that men, in September / October at the time of the tender auction, are really eating meat for considerable wintertime. Like the president now who releases me, people would rightly use this opportunity, because our system is defective, to import the most expensive muscles, let's say to pork, when only bacon, pork, is missing. In this regard, too, I would like to mention that during the last assembly rather than the last one, we discussed customs and the changes in the law regarding them. Then we defined it as being possible for consumers to arrive, and it was put in place to define what part of meat they needed; the lack of bacon does not necessarily say that all pork is missing. But it seems that it is being used by humans in this way and so, like a whale. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon said it's coming through. I wish this could happen. Clearly, there is a shortage of these meats in the country when 3,000 tons of lamb are produced beyond our needs and then is exported. In this regard, in the domestic contract work of the Committee, all production of lamb in Iceland has the support of 4.9 billion a year; if you divide it and multiply it to 3,000 tons, it is estimated that Icelandic taxpayers are subsiding lamb for exporting about 1.6 billion dollars. every year. It is undisputed, and it shows. At the end, I'm going to discuss what has been highly critical of the customs and the market agreements, i.e. The situation of chicken farmers and pig farmers. I believe, and have always been, that if we are to adopt rules that the European Union sets out for animal protection, and that we should, of course, we must have things comparable to that, in order to enable the local farmers to comply with the regulations and requirements. This will be done only in the same way that the European Union does, i.e. by strengthening the individual to correct the situation. The import of this meat is, in my opinion, necessary up to a certain point in promoting competition and choice for consumers. It should also be part of trying to make more peace with the European agriculture between consumers and managers and producers, who are considerably missing. The livestock contract shows that only 450 million people do. K. will be provided during the contract period for the changes to be made because of the new regulations. It has been observed, and we can have a wide range of opinions that Iceland and I go beyond such measures in the European Union. It has been observed that in terms of the rules of poultry, we go a lot further, but as farmers say, they are not against it, they want to ensure the well - being of birds, which is based on logic and facts, they wanted more adaptation periods and all that follows. But it should be kept in mind that, in view of the promises made, it seems to me that meeting them in this regard is not possible. A respectable president. I had one meeting after this deal was made, both in pig farms and in chicken farms, and in the Ministry's representatives. I noticed that there was a serious disagreement about what is being discussed in this council resolution, about the conclusions made by the Pork Farmers Society on these matters, and I have not yet come to the bottom of what is right in this relationship. However, in this regard it is appropriate to consider that in these extensions, on the one hand, what we move in and what we receive in return to the European Union, the transport of sheep is increased by 1,200 tons and goes up to 3,050 tons, and the export of a target is increased, up to 4,000 tons. Instead, we have donated 500 tons of pork, 666 tons of poultry and 596 tons of beef. As I said before, there is a shortage of these meats in the country, we don't produce enough, but that should, of course, be our competition. However, I continue to act as a respectable president, that a certain import of a particular defense is essential to some degree in order to make peace, to try to create more competition, and to give more variety. In fact, there's a bit of a strain on me what I've said before about importing and not importing, i.e. how we here in Iceland have managed to survive without antibiotics and growth hormones. It has also been observed in the work of the Committee that we are very long before the fact that there is little about salmonella and a Campylobacter in our meat products, which is noteworthy and respectable and very good for us, as shown by other examples. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I will not sit on the State Department and will not deal with this proposal, but I expect the employment committee to pass through it and that we will consider it in relation to the domestic agreement and the agreement here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u56	Mr. President. I'm going to start my talk by asking that this case come to us on the job board, for, as presented here, these two matters are undeniably mixed, the existing market deal, and the customs agreement with the European Union. As we have seen, he has not been won in any agreement with farmers, other stakeholders, consumers, or other groups than those in the government today. If this toll agreement remains, it will have a tremendous impact on the overall agricultural work in Iceland, not just the farms producing white meat, but all the meat production in the country and production when it comes to opening so much on the transport of meat to the country. There's no small amount out there. In pig meat, the current food is 200 tons and goes up to 700 tons in this period, over four years, and in poultry is eaten today, which can be imported 200 tons but goes up to 856 tons, to name some quantity in this material. Adding to this is meat products, the amount is increased from 50 tons to 400 tons, and the amount of hot dog goes from 50 tons to 250 tons. This is an enormous increase and no wonder that pig farmers and chicken farmers expressed a lot of concern about what this deal will do for the rest of these articles and whether they will not be shaken out of it. It is harder to rebuild food production in these articles after a period of time if circumstances arise, so that such production would be further promoted within the country than to increase this amount of import to the country. I find this discussion to be very special. It is always linked together that using a high import it is default for consumer prices to be dropped. We know that the decline has far since paid off to consumers. Today, large quantities of agricultural products and white meat are transported to the country. It has been observed in the discussion that, as with the pork, people are using tobaccotans to import the most expensive parts of it, such as gray and other direct products, but then they have a lack of product like pork pages, what the bacon is made of, and then they are only free imports, as it has been in May through September. By the end of September, people are stocking up before the next month, so much more is being introduced than one realizes. It causes imbalance in competition when this import of pork is introduced and can be prepared for its manufacture in a country that also makes it difficult for the national producers to compete in these situations. Now this is the case, e.g. in Denmark, Spain, Italy, and other countries where pig meat is produced, Russia's embellishment to import Europe from pork is very low in Europe. It's coming with this goods now because there's a lot of trouble with pig farms in many European countries because they can't get their goods public in Russia, and this will also have this effect on the market here. This is a very difficult competitive situation, and the entire chain of respect also upsets the country far and wide. The production of meat products in the agricultural sector produces far more jobs than people realize. If this customs contract continues, it will cause a large urban disorder in the country. This will not only take the farms involved and not depend on the huge import that comes into the market and will not tolerate the high level of competition that will be involved, but will affect so many other aspects of this work in the main sector of the agricultural sector. I think that men should think twice before they really cut up an army against the settlements of the country that are being made with this contract. The country's being threatened, and it's hard to believe that this is going through without checking the consequences of this deal. It has also been observed that the health of Icelandic production, so I prefer to outdo pig breeding and poultry production in a way very different from that in many parts of Europe. We are very ahead of it, and of course we should enjoy it as we look at prices, competitions, and expands our imports. The job board this morning, where the livestock contract was discussed, also discussed a survey of the quality of a fresh chicken at a table of meat in Britain. From the samples taken there, it was found that 70% of the fresh chickens were infected with Campylobacter and salmonella. We have not been faced with this great problem, but we have been very careful about all monitoring and assessment of this before the chicken or the pig is killed. There are a much harder demand for health products in Iceland, which, of course, should also be looked around and is very unfair when it is flushed into the country with less control on antibiotic use and whether the product is full of chocolate bacteria or salmonella. As for left greens, we want to defend as much as possible the Icelandic agricultural product and think that by means of the local tax agreements, agricultural production is being threatened, not only in the land, but also a number of sectors that work on the side of agricultural production. We're supposed to protect our fine production. There are also environmental views to support that, therefore, there is a lot of pollution in moving agricultural products around a long way, whether it is meat, cheese, or anything else, when we can produce this at home and quality is completely compatible and also worthy, I mean. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u57	A respectable president. It has been interesting to observe this discussion because the discussion is under way, and there are disagreements and conflicting issues. Yet, there are some things that stand out. It is a pleasure, and we should be able to unite with them. In my mind, it is impossible to discuss these matters unless in the context of the livestock contract. This is, naturally, the greatest opening that any government has ever opened with this Convention on the import of agrienvironmental products. True, I would have, and I believe that it is an old - fashioned approach and out - of - date resorting to agricultural contracts, as we now do. I think we should do this in a way to get us together on agri policy policy, of course, farms' interest groups like other interest groups should do it, but I think we should set policy priorities for many years so that people in this article should get to it -- and there are a lot more people in this article than farmers as we have seen here, those who sell food, it's tourism. I want them to come to this. These are all our interests. I've thought there was a lack of someone to look at things in that context and to use, for example. There are 2 million people who come here every year, and they share an opportunity with us Icelanders that they have to eat. It's just general. Even though they are very different peoples of different nationalities, they all need to eat. Maybe because of luck, maybe because of a vision of farmers, but certainly not because of those stakeholders who have spoken in the kind of person I like, i.e. Speak for freedom, then I'm referring to the consumer organization, I'm referring to the store - these stakeholders have not spoken for or pointed to the strength of the Icelandic food product that is in a way of loyalty. Now it has happened a little by itself that it is only talking about this, but it has not been required of them. As a consumer, I think it's annoying at best that you're not informed by those sources about the difference between different products, because meat and meat aren't the same. It was farmers who decided not to use antibiotics, as is done in other countries, and we Icelanders make it so well that the largest antibiotic use in Europe along with Norway is produced by Icelandic production. Now I don't know, but I understand it was also farmers who at the time decided not to use hormones in their productions, as they do. On the other hand, there is a clear distinction between hormone meat, which is of much lower value in shops and the meat called the organic meats. But we have not called attention to these factors. I think it's basic. As a consumer, I want to know what I'm buying. Of course, this sect that wants to join the EU has been mixed up in confusion. How wonderful it is that people have seriously spoken of the EU as a bond of freedom! The EU is a toll alliance. It's a toll alliance. Now I read yesterday's newsletter where the EU-sunnail said that Icelandic farmers -- and it was similar. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson - should walk in the EU because the EU was so protective of its farmers. That's what I'm talking about. Men are in many circles in the argument. But the problems of the EU, which we can discuss later, are natural. There's got to be something to say that accountants have not trusted themselves to sign up on Community accounts for nearly 20 years. And their course of protection on the world scene is one of the reasons why the euro, Europe, if we take it as a whole, is the only continent outside the Arctic region that has not grown and thrived in the past decade. Sadly, this is not how we approach it. In this context, however, I like the princely attitude to what we should stress, but I know that many disagree with me when it comes to protection. I don't know how much I get into this brief speech, but it seems to me that we have similar support to the EU and EFTA countries when it comes to the relative support. The whole system, however, goes beyond the fact that we're protecting the white meat. Now it's all well deserved, but I think it's a strange agricultural policy on the part of the Icelanders. I feel that support should further focus on what is traditional agriculture with the aim of our having the most healthful agriculture in the world. I don't understand, maybe it's a misunderstanding, maybe some people can sort me out, but it seems to me that we didn't have to do much so that traditional agriculture could be classified as organic. We do not have to change much. I wondered: " Is this the goal we should try to establish that Icelandic agriculture could be organic, and the people who come here could count on it? I feel that we should approach things in a way that allows us to have some vision and make use of the strengths we have. Suddenly it's what's been a weakness, i.e. How far north we are, we have become strength. If we look, for example. the use of antibiotics in Europe is linked somewhat to the fact that humans are north or south. Even if we don't achieve the same amount, we're more wholesome. We can see that, for example. in the general problem of society, let's put it this way, is not our lack of food. Some of us eat a little too much of it. But what we need more may be wholesome food, less eating, and more healthful. But of course, I feel that people should have the freedom to eat what they want, but we need to know what they are buying. When we reach this deal, it's a huge opening. It seems to me, there's a particular need to look at the fact that we're opening up for the products that aren't produced in this country, but we're going to use and use more and more like various cheeses. It's been a long time. But that is of little value if we continue to have the auction system that we have regarding the distribution of the tollototes. For example, I mention one, food that I eat very much like parmesanos, the price of it is completely ridiculous, it is not in any agreement with what it needs to be. Would anyone say, " This warning is competitive with bread cheese? ' Parmesanost is not in competition with bread cheese if I take just a specific example. It's not like that, and there's room for both. My good partner, a small worker in Reykjavík City, sells cheese. He claims, and I trust that the more choice he offers, the greater sales is in the Icelandic cheeses. This moves us to do so. In fact, we went to all of us for so - called eco-efficiency operations to squeeze out of work into few places because we thought it was a competition. The competition was supposed to come from the outside. Of course, the competition will come from outside some time, it will not be quite soon, seems to me, but the next time the world becomes tough, people will make international treaties that we will not be able to control. It's a question of where we're going to position ourselves if we want to keep in Icelandic production, which I think most people want and are willing to make some effort to do. I believe the evidence lies in the use of the traditional agricultural products. If we have another type of production that is sometimes called a factory product, it must compete with what comes from another source. A respectable president. I would have wanted more time to discuss this, I was at a meeting abroad when we talked about the livestock deal, I've only got ten minutes to discuss these things here, but I think we need to discuss these two things together. It is in itself good to have the opening, but we need to answer how the work will be done. If we have the arrangement we have now, auction of customs, we will not reach the goals we want. It's not good for consumers. It's not good for farmers either. So I think it's important that we discuss it in this context, but then I think it's best, now I don't know if it's possible to fix these existing agricultural contracts, what flexibility we have in it, but it's the subject of another speech to go over it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u58	Mr. President. Hv. A senator gave a number of interesting talks. I can agree with various factors, such as his well-programmed agricultural skills in terms of the low use of antibiotics and the use of growth-gain hormones. I can also agree that there are facts that we should be able to apply more fully than we do. Hv. At the same time, a senator spoke in a way about the domestic agreement, if I understood it right from the beginning and back at the end, that they were basically out - of - date in the way presented here. This brings to mind that the earlier discussion had occurred. paritaprevir For example, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson raised an interesting statement about this contract, the tax agreement. Materially, he said he's on his way, okay? A senator in the hall can correct the wrong, that if he had been in his former seat as the head of the local community when this tax agreement was alluded to, he would have broke up business with the State or suggested that we talk about government contracts. That was an interesting word. As a result, I wonder: " What is the independent party's attitude on both of these matters? Clearly, it is a great burden when we hear such comments about the domestic agreement and the customs agreement. Hv. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson is the vice president of the Independence Party. Well, maybe. A senator would tell us a little more about this? Is it so that in the Independence category there are very deep - seated doubts or even opposition to both sides of the Convention and the Custom Convention, but not necessarily the same person? What, then, is the situation in politics? I'm beginning to wonder, " Is it really not here to draw up that this case together is by no means the success of a council that is needed unless significant changes are made? ' Well, maybe. A senator and the vice president of the Party of Independence informed a little more about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We have it in common, all of us have it. Senators of the Council of Independence, that we are not the same. And one of the reasons why I went to the Independence Party was because I believe that no one is the same. We have different opinions and viewpoints. That is true in these matters, as is true of all others. Then it's just that, in the end, each and every one needs to go. A senator appreciates it when he votes on a matter--I don't have to explain it to him why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who has been here for some time, has to consider whether accepting a matter in its own time is a greater interest or less. But I think it's very important in discussion like this that people come up with their viewpoints and discuss them, because we're going to take these issues to the committee and examine them, etc. I do so in this discussion, like most people. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator can take most of the talks I've been giving and sees that I make it a rule to make comments there. I feel that something might go better. I don't speak on behalf of you. paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson, but I think he has the same approach. Few, if any, know the agricultural business better than what it is. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson. I think it would be most desirable if his viewpoint and knowledge were to be heard everywhere. I did a few things here that I feel I could fix and try to draw up the big picture. I feel that in all this politics, we should first emphasize the protection of traditional Icelandic agriculture. That's my point. That's always been my point. I also believe that we should make better use of its means of reaching out. Then I went over the swamps of the EU, men say, e.g. not since walking in the EU, products would rise in a great many areas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But we can do better later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u60	Mr. President. I realize that the members of the Independence Party are not all the same, although for a time it seems that the renewal of that category was relatively uniform here at the council when, for a time, no new members of the Independence Party came into Congress differently than being a relatively young male lawyers, rather liberals, and sometimes they were attracted to shorts. It may have been more over a period of time in the history of the renewal of the Independence Party than the rule. Fortunately, there I am. A senator agrees, gives a wide range of viewpoints in these matters, and getting different perspectives on the subject, as noted earlier today in comments on the use of variations in times of need. paritaprevir Steingrímsson Steingmursson came up after me and approached me from a different direction. Here we have been listening to one of the basic groups of the Independence Party, which are not exactly anyone, and which are very talkative in these matters, and in sharp contrast. paritaprevir Of course, Harald the son of Benediktsson, who, with all due respect to other members of the Independence Party, is superior when it comes to knowledge of this class after a long period of confidential work. I believe, therefore, that my questions are entirely valid about the extent and depth of the doubts and opposition within the ranks of the members of the Independence Party in these agreements individually and collectively. Is drawing up the situation that does not support handling these matters unchanged on the part of the Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u61	A respectable president. I don't know when the uniform group of young male lawyers, liberals, and short trousers -- I meet any of these conditions, especially the shorts, because I was playing with the Young Mansion Syphilism for a long time, both in younger classes and in the master class. But I don't think this is the right place to go over that career, but if it is. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon will work hard on me. I need, according to the nature of the case, to inform him. Senators to that end. [[Up front.]] So, in a material way, I now assume that's a good political thing for these matters. I'm a prince's bride. I want us to make crop deals like other goods. However, I am stressing that we need to put some lines on how we are going to serve these greetings. That's what I've been suggesting when it comes to this matter. It has so much to do with it. Travel services have nearly as much currency as the fishing road combined with the aluminium industry. It is only this marvelous personal enterprise that has made people bring great restaurants, tourism, and so forth. One thing is that we need more food. Although I would like to have foreigners eat as much as possible Icelandic food, it is now better when we mix it with other things, such as. Cheese. Of course, the price of imported products cannot be offered as it has been so far. That is why I stress that we need to discuss it in this context. The answer is too short to discuss comments with the livestock contract, but I'll be glad to review those views here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u62	Madam President. I can see that this is a huge subject of great interest. Senators, but I'd like to thank you very much. Minister for having this discussion about the future view of the tax system that we may not have very often in this room. We usually have changes in current tax systems and often simply adjustments where percentages are being brought up or down. What I wanted to talk about today was if it wasn't necessary to reevaluate the tax system from a larger and broader point of view in terms of social change, tax reforms, and the combination of tax systems and reform systems. Of course, it's a classic subject. Although there is sometimes a tendency to pretend that the tax system is primarily a technical matter, it really is both a very political and a philosophical subject, for it involves a basis for society. The main role of the tax system is not merely to provide income to support a share or basic service, which is defined in different ways by which governments are in control at any given time; the key is that basic services guarantee the success of citizens. But the tax system also has other roles, e.g. to serve certain economic goals. Many, including me, believe that the income balance role of the tax system is very important, i.e. that, under different steps, it is ensured that the more income and rich contribute relatively more than those with less share. Anguish of this discussion is also how the tax system is used to control the price of certain products. We can review a discussion about worth-employment tax on food. More important, changing times call for a new role in the transparent tax system. Why? Yes, because by the free flow of people and the financial resources of the world, the tax institutions are no longer localized, the structure of the financial system has created potential, as we have discussed before, in countless hiding places for funding, which, in turn, make up the traditional tax bases that we have established, actually come on when society is modern, perhaps does not reflect the community today. It is worth considering how the tax system should best reflect this transparency or make sure that the tax system is the best of it. I think it is important that we ponder a particular basic question, as part of the city gets most of its income in the usual way through pay, while others get most of the money. Nevertheless, the taxation on capital income and conventional income is quite different. Wouldn't it be normal for income tax and capital tax to follow the same principles of a pay factor, then for taxation to be step - by - step so that people would not be discriminated against on the basis of where they make their income? When we discuss the equation, if we agree that the tax system has a certain balance role, it is not enough just to watch the income equation, which includes. As measured by the Gii score, it only says half the story. No less serious is the difference between wealth and wealth. We all know those numbers. The richest 1 percent of the world has more than the other 99 percent. Their wealth has increased far beyond the world's economic growth. In Iceland it is the richest 10 percent of those with almost 3/4 of all wealth. I'd like to ask you about the highest position. A minister to a wealth tax that can be discussed with what boundaries should be, whether it is really essential to an equation action in the light of this large dissociation that is not an a specialist problem but an international one. It can also be asked about the highest insurance fee. A minister has recommended a lower rate and has been a parapolitical point. It is then asked, as a result of a reduction, whether or not it is a threat to the work that the insurance costs are due to be carried out, e.g. Necessary insurance and maternity vacations. Does not thinking of new ways to finance them? Does the insurance bill and the arrangement for that society reflect today? Should it just be dropped by insurance and other means of financing this community - important project? I'm asking because it's important to look at a special link between the tax system and the reform system. Finally, I would like to mention the need for international cooperation on tax issues, since we have failed to follow the fact of globalization, i.e. that capital and people - especially funding, because it is more likely that people are held off by borders than capitals, as we know sadly. 10 to 15 European countries have now agreed to collect taxes for moving from country to country. This new tax was part of the discussion at the Paris climate conference, for although it sees very low in percent, it can make a lot of money. What was discussed was that the tax would provide for an international project, such as the battle against climate change. It is a global problem, and it needs a global tool to deal with it. I was wondering about the highest vision. Minister of the future role of the tax system and what he thinks of the points I've mentioned here, whether it's not necessary to watch these issues from the changed society we live in, not just from today's work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u63	Madam President. I welcome the discussion of the role of the tax system and its development. In recent years, it may have been such a time that we at least In recent years many taxes were introduced under the income support of the tax system, and during the last term, a number of taxes were introduced under the income - support argument, the side of which also appeared to be looking at an equation, but the basic logic, e.g. to the wealth tax back then was that this was a temporary tax base because of the poor state's status. In the meantime, we are just out of our minds, we've got a government fund running around right now, and it's time to think about the future role of government income support systems and how we can achieve the main goals we agree on at any given time. I'm going to say as my main arm here that I have felt that the income system, especially the person, the income tax system and its interaction with the reform systems, was simply too complex. I think there's some conflicting message in the systems. Consider, for example, a person with income up to 1,300,000. At the same time, he can be on the side of the child - welfare system. How can we conclude that after the person has reached about 800,000 bucks? is there evidence in the income tax system to place an additional percentage on the income tax, not for the first time, but the second time, in the top step, after hundreds of thousands of dollars, before he loses his rights to child repair? This interaction with the income tax system and its complexity is a prime concern to me when it comes to individuals and their peripheral taxes. We have to look at the systems together, and they have become quite complex, with a three - step income tax system today, and a relatively high personality discount and growth reform system, a child - reform system, and now the new housing reform system, each with its pay limits. It's getting pretty complicated for a normal Icelander to figure out where and where he is in all these systems and their interaction to hit the roof and take on a high perimeter tax. This is what I wanted to say about individuals. I think there's a considerable task ahead of us to simplify this film. I'm a spokesman for making less of the transfers and leaving people's motivation to help themselves as much as possible. That is why we have already legalized the departure of the middle phase. I thus watch the income tax system that it seems to me that income taxation in Iceland is for intermediate income and above is on the higher side compared to other countries. I don't see much reason for going much higher. I've always been a spokesman for not having property taxes. I thought it was a big step when we took them off at the time, and I notice that they're taking over property taxes in other countries. I will mention, for example, in Norway, where the current government has set it up to cancel the property tax that appears to be a resource tax. I'm also going to point out that they had at least some men there. Interestingly, when they had a wealth tax system - they still have it - that they separate the share from the value of property from taxation, because it is a tremendous burden for people to have to pay their taxes on the property. As for corporate taxes and the taxes mentioned here, I agree with that. A senator that we need to monitor the changes that are being made in society, as is the tendency in individuals to set up private partnerships around their income, but I think that we have dealt well with the fact that corporate taxing of lisprosentan, along with the capital taxation taxation, is comparable to the income tax of individuals. I don't agree that there's a lot of gaping between us. And I'd also like to keep it going, because we're always talking about the equation in the Icelandic community and the role of the tax system to ensure the equation, which, of course, matters and I believe that one of the main characteristics of us as a community is the unwritten social contract that no one will be left behind and we're all participants in building up the quality of life here, that we've done quite well on the Giini levels and many other standards. [[The president calls.]] Let us always make good use of this discussion, then, that even if we want to do better, we have achieved very significant results.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u64	President. This part of the program is correct, huh? paritaprevir Katrín's daughter Jakobsdóttir, that taxes are so much more than talking about whether they are tall or low or some simple source of income. It's a question of what to tax. You can control so much of your society and create the society you want to create by a certain kind of setting the tax system. Of course, our political differences in how to manage the tax system are so much about how we want to create a society. Now we have a government that puts the most emphasis on reducing taxes, and it reduces most of the resources and reduces the taxes on companies, fishing costs, and energy taxes. It's all in one direction. On the other hand, I am one of the members of the council, an equalist, who wants to be equal in society. We want to do it by using the tax system. I'd like to go to the end, because time is so fast, to bring up the baby benefits. I believe child support should be an addition to a personal discount. For every child, a higher person gets a discount. Then, with the more prosperous in a well - stepd tax system, where the highest income tax is high, it is paid back by those who actually receive this tax rate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u65	A respectable president. It can be said that this is an important discussion, but it is also safe to say that it is large and large, and two minutes will by no means be enough to spread all the things you want. The best thing to do, then, is to come straight to the basics. In my mind, there is a vision of the future that we can and should develop the tax system in order to gain more of the use of resources in environmental taxes and the expenditures of limited resources. I think it's in the face of this society that there's a lot of money we can do in order to reduce the emphasis on taxing individuals and businesses. I think this is something we should be looking for. We should, in my opinion, view the tax system as a source of income, as well as income balance. A personal discount is a clear example of the balance of the tax system. I think we should aim for simplicity. I was disappointed with the steps taken to the simple value of the tax system. I think it should be simple and beneficial, less balanced, than the income tax system. Even the way insurance has been done in recent years. In fact, I feel that there has been an increase in the ambiguousness and transparency of the tax system in terms of the income market, which should be used to finance predefined projects in the cooperation of industry and state and rural society, has actually been abused and earned into the state business on the back door. It's unsuspecting. What will we do next when unemployment strikes? So are we going to raise the insurance? It's not working. In addition, there is a need to consider dividing state and rural society. Companies have an important service post, and they're funded. This need to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u66	A respectable president. I appreciate this conversation, because it's always a discussion, a conversation between taxes and society. In the end, it's about how we want to live as a nation. Do we want to live in a improved society, or do we want to live in a job - drive society? That's what much of the discussion is about. She also wants to be concerned that those who have found themselves in life and who have a stable job should carry more loads in helping those who are less inclined to work. I can agree with that, but to a certain extent, because at a certain point, taxation in society becomes too high and the tax system starts to work against society. By then, society has become so motivated to cheat on taxes and to engage in tax collections. Thus, this balance must always be present. The dance to determine a tax percentage is always a firm one. I believe this government has successfully succeeded. So I wholeheartedly support the proposal to reduce tax steps to two. It's all for improvement. In the middle of an affair, I would like to mention that we, likely one of the few nations, were allowed to tax especially one industry in the land, a fishing road. It's very special that we can get away with it, but it's a social agreement that's unbreakable and acceptable to both the government and the industry. They're gonna give you government grants, for example. In Norway. [[The president calls.]] I think the tax system is in big balance right now, and I'm glad it's being simplified. It's for the benefit of everyone, and it's for the sake of a lot of tax collections.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u67	In fact, we should discuss these matters at a different level than in two minutes at the council. Of course, it is important to open up the discussion from time to time, but such a matter needs to be discussed with long - term thoughts, such as. A future committee of the Generals could be a platform if we have the advantage of establishing them at some point. I'd like to take this opportunity and go to the top. The minister of finance and all members of the council who are concerned with our community finding money, which certainly does exist, so that we can have a health - free system. I think this is a priority, a priority for all of us who are to protect the interests of the public. It has been repeated that the public wants to put high health priorities. If there is no money in it, for example. you can go the German route for thin funding, so you can find 4 billion each year. We can skip selling the Lands Bank, and we'll have 10 billion each year. Then we are on the long track to pay for free health - care systems. If we post our catch on auction, we should be able to reach some 30 to 40 billion each year. Then, in many areas, rural society is in great difficulty. If they were given permission to make a bedside fee, they could enjoy more travel in the country. Then there could be a small fee, a return fee to the country, and we would be better off in order to run a welfare system that we can be proud of, and the welfare system in which the Icelanders want to live.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u68	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion. As mentioned above, it's a very basic subject, but I'd like to mention a few things. First, I'd like to mention a phenomenon commonly known as a green tax, i.e. tax paid by consumers for products or services not in the interest of sustainability, environment or nature. These green taxes are thought to offset environmental impacts. A fine example of such a arrangement is the climate fund for green growth, which is intended for green projects, to build green developments in the community. Green taxes are thought of as being largely earmarked to such tasks to move the economy toward green evolution. There is a very important thought in this context. This can also be considered in the discussion of the emissions-related business systems, an experiment or project in Europe and elsewhere, a way to stem greenhouse gas emissions from this system. However, many have noted that this may be a better place to use the tax system. I'd also like to mention business associates. They have only been mentioned here, which is obvious to be improved in Iceland so that the rural communities can perform their legal tasks with more authority than at present. Clearly, there is some error in the collection of debt on the part of rural society as the government settles its debt. There's an error in the composition. Finally, I'd like to say that there is a huge personality discount on dress balance and to counteract the poverty of the groups who have the least expression in the country. This could be part of an Icelandic community plan to eliminate poverty. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u69	V.E.G. President. I rejoice that these matters are discussed. Of course, the way we bring in taxation is important. I'll agree with the highest. Secretary of finance that we need to consider how taxation affects the time, how it affects business life, and as a result, society's income from the taxes. I heard why. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir says: This is where more fishing can be paid, put on markets, and make more money. Of course, it's not that simple. If we do so, how will our work be affected? Is that the way to work? Then there is no tax returns. We can't talk about it this way, it's totally irresponsible, as it always is: There's money somewhere, we just go after them. I'm generally convinced that I want the most from those who earn the money. We now run a government fund with income supplies. Why, then, should we be raising taxes? Is that worth it? There may be some economic reasons for this under certain circumstances. Then we'll take a look at it. But always taking more to heart without thinking about the consequences of doing so can be very dangerous for an Icelandic community. I feel that the discussion has been like the fact that the pot is always fixed, that it is just a question of how much we take of it and that nothing will change. Of course, that is not the case. The discussion is good. We need to ask ourselves, " Have my peripheral taxes become too much? ' [[The president calls.]] Is it normal to have a higher proportion of earners? Where the line should be, etc.? Then let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u70	Madam President. All communities, even those underdeveloped, based on some form of taxation. It would be good to mention the tenth part of the people here at the beginning of the region of Iceland. As communities grow to be more civilized and developed, their tax system is enhanced. These include tax systems, such as income tax systems, valuable tax systems, capital tax systems, and resource expenditures. Good communities earn tax revenues in order to increase the equation in their communities, make them more prosperous and better. We're making money to finance the public services that are the hospitals, schools, law enforcement, so that one of the most important things is thought, and we're raising taxes to ensure equality, as in the social security system and the child - welfare system. These are systems based on rights, not charity. The more we manage to earn money in order to have the public service as the busiest or cheapest and to ensure that we earn best balance, the better for society as OECD has pointed out, i.e. to make better use of their tax systems. Therefore, in the United States, we feel that it is extremely important to protect the step - by - step tax system so that the tax system is more than normal and thus contributing to the community. However, we believe that the main means to promote the income of the state's funds to establish a health - free system and child development to all children is referred to as something called, by increasing resource expenditures, and, of course, by taxation on tourists on which this government seems to be the object of the establishment and is one of our greatest project on tax issues for the next loss.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u71	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I'm always celebrating a debate that's broad and philosophical, but two minutes's speeches don't give us deep definitions, so I encourage us who are taking part in the discussion to rent us a hall in town one day and discuss it in a better void. I think there's a lot of talk about tax issues within political parties, where we talk about tax issues with one another, but among the classes there is often a lack of that conversation. I think it's important to watch taxes being on the foundation of public services and public projects. I think there's a general wide structure to that fundamental nature. It is important that the tax system be such that it depends on the basic services we would like to have. It's a pleasure to be fired on the right side of zero, but at the same time, we know that we're not building up an investment in the welfare system after a very thin year. We are close to eating the dairy in that context. Then I'd like to use my last 41 seconds to mention one number, the 80 billion as governor of the tax, if I recall correctly, to say that it's probably the income the state loses because of tax fraud. I wonder if part of the reason why our system is so complicated, how many different types of taxes are based on pay taxes, capital taxes, corporate taxes, etc. I sometimes feel at the council that the biggest tax discussion is improving holes in the tax system. Who benefit from the complexity of systems and the ability to find ways to avoid them? [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is those who have the most, and they have most of the opportunity to buy experts to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u72	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, agrees with this discussion and with others who have welcomed her because it is of great importance. If any subject is policy-related and high-politic, it's our taxes and our taxes. It's important how we think these revenue systems, how much taxation can be and in what form. It has been observed, and I agree, that the tax system needs to reflect the community at any given time, taking into account the composition of the economy, how it happens and how it develops. At that time, taxes on resource use become a critical question to the future and also green taxes to protect nature and the environment. We need to be careful with these systems at the same time. It will always be a fine line to figure out how much taxes can be, how much taxpayers can be put in, how it works on employment, initiatives, job conditions, and investments. This is closely linked to the business. It weighs so much on the amount of income we really need to run our basic service systems. This balance must be such that our systems are simple and efficient so that they are well - founded on time and from time to time. I'll agree with the highest. Budget and economic secretary to the interaction of the income tax system and the improvement system is very complex. It needs to be kept working. In terms of policy and tax systems working, I'd like to say that the government has shown it during this election period, for example, an increased level of money, that the tax pay has been lifted by the people who make money and those who make less money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u73	A respectable president. We only have two minutes to discuss this complex matter. Usually, if taxes are not always available in this town, and if more are searched, the complexities are spoken of, the tax system needs to be simplified. Well, it's true to me. It is always known how many steps should be in the rest or in this tax, let's say income tax. But then I always find myself forgetting that there is now an information technology revolution that is basically useful because it can do very complex things very simple. Had been a senator for three years or so, I may obtain certain information. I know who to ask if I know any information I need. The same is true of experts in consultations, tax experts, and people who work in those things every day. But when it comes to the public, he's a little blind, where to look for what information. There is a problem that can be fixed. The problem can be corrected by providing the tax system in a way that does not depend on expertise or because we focus on certain aspects of the tax system in order to make ourselves understandable in the suggestions that arise, whether there is an increase or a decrease in taxes. The problem in my mind, when it comes to simplifying the tax system, is that we mix engineering problems with political problems. It is political bitter how the tax system should be for many reasons that I don't have the time to go to, obviously in principle, but an engineering factor is also there. One of the simplest ways to explain this is to visit one of the home banks or to visit a bank site and calculate mortgages. It presents a complex calculation for ordinary people in a way that ordinary people can understand and make informed decisions; based on factors they would not understand if these calculators were not. There are such solutions that we should look to, not only to the political questions when it comes to the simple tax system, but also to what can be done to set the system in a way that is most beneficial to all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u74	Madam President. I thank you for this discussion that many people have. Councilmen consider it important, but at the same time they do not take the time. That may be a reason to set aside time for that later. It can be concluded that we agree that the tax system is important as a business tool for mixing. We may not agree on the amount of shared consumption to be observed in what I hear. In terms of the income balance, we may not agree on how much it should be. As for the transparency, there may not have been a lot of people who talked about it, but I think that's one of the key parts of the tax system in the season because we're just watching a whole other population than we were watching at the time of the IRS. We base our tax system on certain historical facts that have changed very much, i.e. how people earn their money during a time that is different from what was 50 years ago, 40 years, 30 years ago, just because money transport has changed. I think it's very important that we discuss these big lines. Are we ready, Icelanders, in cooperation like what European nations are going to do on taxation of capital transport? For example, have we developed a policy in how we are going to deal with the climate change, and what tax reforms we are going to make use of? Are we ready for international cooperation on this matter? I say yes. I say yes, we should be ready for it. I think we need to deal with the big issues, whether we accept the dissociation of wealth that is a fact in our society, such as in other Western communities; it doesn't mean just looking at our income in that topic, we have to watch the wealth as well. Are we content with the misunderstanding that we see in wealth in our community? Do we want the tax system to handle it in some way? I say yes to that, too. I want to agree with them. Councilmen who have identified the role of the local community. The fact is that our society has changed, and the activities of our rural society have become more important and more important to ordinary people in the country; now, the last tourism in which local communities ask for some kind of solution to meet their roles. This is also one of the major projects ahead, Madam President. Otherwise, I'd like to thank you for your time. I hope that we will have a better time later to cross those big political lines.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u75	Madam President. I'd also like to come here, of course, to support the main item of the current income tax system, which is that we have an incremental tax percentage due to the character discount, what we sometimes call progressive tax system. My opinion is that there are only three tax steps on the top or on the character discount. Rather, we should look at the character discount as a tool for achieving further results than for highlighting the third tax step, whereas I think that it did not produce the results of the target, either in the income section, because it is a relatively small amount of revenue, or in the role of an equation. Then, most important, I am referring to the fact that the top tax step has come all too early if you are stressing the role of the equation. In other countries where special taxes are taken into consideration for the population of high income and big stock, we are generally talking about a much greater division of wealth and a much higher income distribution, i.e. much more pay. I mention, for example, what was commonly discussed here in a council hall, the ideas in France about a special capital tax. What was the income involved? There was more than one million euro a year, i.e. about 10 million a month. We're here with a high income tax of 800. K., an 8% of the standard for the discussion in France. This is just one of the things I wanted to share. I agree with the tax system. I think the changes we've made in cooperation with the government tax manager have been a great improvement. [[The president calls.]] The taxpayers see what goes to the state and what goes on to their own. In addition, I would like to have your tax rate published specifically because it is special for each person in the income tax. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u76	A respectable president. Drivers pay a lot of taxes here in Iceland. It's totally undisputed. The estimated tax pay of the state funds from vehicles and fuel has been about 37 billion over the past few years. That counts about 6% of the total tax collections of state funds. What distinguishes the tax burden is that the taxes are many, they are tall, and they vary greatly from automobiles and fuel types. In short, on gasoline and diesel oil, there are six different taxes and expenditures, i.e. General goods, special market fees, carbon bills, transport tax and credit tax. Humans, for example, have accepted the rightness, such as. The fees have included the aim of them to support the infrastructure of transport edification, mainly by road construction. Cars suffer from four different tax and tax taxes, car bills, tax, credit tax, and recycling costs, but in a very different way according to the type of car. Thus, according to carbon dioxide emissions, car expenses are divided into nine categories. The maximum price can be 65% and then fall on top of it 24% of the cost tax. During the last term, many of these taxes were changed to the name of the environment. Then, for example, it was. tax on fuel increased far beyond diesel by aiming at car costs and goods only at registered carbon dioxide emissions, and also increasing prices, especially in fuel cars. It's hard, however, to clearly identify the amount of CO 2 in automobile exhaust, and hence in determining the price of the product. We know of the false numbers of the manufacturers from abroad that it can be difficult. In this way the public has been directed to buy diesel cars rather than fuel cars. I think it's perfectly clear. Diet trucks are more expensive in shopping, and they also cause pollution that is more dangerous to human health. Then I refer to the nitrogen oxide that has been called wastewater. For good reason, large cities are currently planning to ban any diesel trucks in cities. In Europe, Paris has been preconceiving about it and other cities, such as London, are considering it. The costs and price paid for cars are also related to carbon dioxide emissions and are said to be in the interests of the environment. The fact is, however, those cars with the lowest cost have at least The most damaging pollution from a public health point. During the last term, the decision was also made to provide the taxisation for the import of biofuels, which say ethanol and herbal oil, in other words, simply food, for gas mixture and diesel when there was even no positive environmental impact of such mixtures. Based on the information I've acquired, I think now I'm burning in our cars food that could sustain 100,000 people a year, if we put it in context of something we should also worry about, which is a potential famine in the world. I have reason to believe that there is an enormous consumption control. What I find to be the worst of the consumer management is that it does not take into account that humans never know which solutions are really best or are going to be on top of the future. If you have, for example. Worried about the environment, what is the solution to the environment? Thus, waste management inhibits evolution and results are unpredictable. What causes this pursuit to become a country's car owners and homes? Is this differing taxation justified? The highest. Financial Ministers agree that simplifying all this payment, reducing consumption control, especially when the current consumer control encourages the purchase of more expensive and more contaminated cars and helps to import expensive fuels? I thought it would be right for me to combine all the companies of cash into one tax for simplicity and to reduce unwanted consumer management. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Thus, people would be free of criteria such as weight and size of machinery and uncertain sizes such as carbon dioxide emissions and would not have to rely on foreign manufacturers'numbers to determine taxes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u77	Madam President. I appreciate the opportunity here to discuss these matters. In short, the main purpose of the government is by means of a tax system made up of vehicles and fuel. As we have seen, on the one hand, the collection of income for the state funds - this is a massive percentage of the last year's tax revenues, it seems to be about 8% when all is included and done with the intention of funding the construction of transport workers - and on the other hand, it's a environmental point. There is no denying that certain consumer control is involved. Is it not historically significant that we have not always had a currency to buy all the things that we have thought to get? In recent years there have been many changes in taxation due to motor vehicles and fuel. There have been reports of new types of vehicles and fuel, and I am referring to electrical vehicles, hydrogen cars, metal cars, motor trucks, a biodiversaries, and as a result, many of them have been adopted as outlets or appendages, usually temporarily, to pay for the availability of new technologies to this market. It is now only a significant jungle of various charges and regulations. Aesthetically, automobile fees, merchandise bills, credit tax, extraction fees. It's the price on vehicles, but on fuel there's a tax, an oil tax, a mile tax, a carbon charge, a tax, and a valuable tax. Thus, the overall view of vehicle taxation and fuel use is found to be extremely difficult because of various forms of accessation and appeals, which even skimble between sectoral competitions. There are seven different layers of vehicle taxation and fuel, and the misunderstanding is too high. For example, there have been cases where buying a more expensive and heavier car may be more practical. I could give you more examples. The car with the same machine, the same frame, the same operating house as any other equipment, can land in different subsidies, depending on whether or not the surface of its frame. A car that's moved into a pelvic car carries 0% product fees, but if a box is placed on the rail, it's worth 13%. Then, on the other hand, bickering may be done, and what was thought to be right and true one day may become out - of - date and wrong the next day. For example, I have seen in other countries how the values of taxes can come out strangely. For example, we see finedest kinds of expensive joints in Copenhagen with special frames and no seats in the back because of that, people can be on a worthy tax car and be on this fine car with two seats produced as a five - man car. Clearly, this has all effect on human behavior. Here, too, we are involved in the composition of non-earthly fuels, as well as tax subsidies on fuel with reference to their non-carbons at the time of incineration. However, evidence has been made that fossil fuels are burned in the production of some of the compounds and therefore their lack of carbohydrates has been questioned. As for all of this, I would like to add up: I have considered to be a full reexamination demand for existing taxation legislation on both vehicles and fuel, which is why I established a team earlier this year. He is aimed at investigating the current tax system and the implementation of taxation, suggesting that government policy on taxation and suggest changes in existing legislation. I expect my summer suggestions. The policy is to promote a simple and efficient tax system that is equal, and transparency guided by energy saving. I think it needs to be part of our policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other harmful substances as far as they can go, if the impact of taxation on the collection and property of vehicles is slightly reduced, it is proposed, and, nevertheless, government funds will be guaranteed tax revenues normally in line with the construction and maintenance of transport workers. I suppose the following might be said that all the examples we have in front of us today show that while people have good intentions, they have become rather strange. For example, low price on the truck is to promote the social services and make it easier for you to get on the job, but the difference between the merchandise and the people sitting with them has become too screaming, which again leads to getting into a business of your own business and the tax wastes a lot of powder in following them up to make sure that the right is reported. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u78	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. It's true what's been said here that it's often good to stop and pass through the wood of the taxes, and possibly to grow out or to fix and unite groups, etc. There's one project, and I think that anyone who's been in the Board of Directors knows some of it. But then the big task is to have a course of action in these groups. That's what we lack here. We set up and worked for direction during the last term. There was a energy exchange program on which the Green Energy is based, but it is a cluster of activity on energy exchange projects that are still being carried out. It plays a major role in the policies taken during the last term. I've been sorry to hear little about that plan now, but it's somehow as if we're never gonna make such a project go off with some force living ahead of government change. There is no religion anywhere. Everyone is trying to get a realistic approach to this project. I think if we sat down and tried to take this assignment seriously once, we might be able to succeed, as, for example. Norwegians. In Norway, two out of three sold new cars were sold in March. This is because they have decided to use the tax and remuneration system to achieve that conclusion. If we want to go that way, we have role models in that field. You can do this. We've only given in and reduced as new governments come. So we need to change. Nor do I understand the opposition to the taxation of contaminated vehicles or contaminated industry, one of the most efficient taxation found. Once again, I encourage men to sit down and look at what has been done, the policy that has been established, and try to work out some proper prospect for the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u79	Madam President. It is normal for automobile taxes to take into account the environment, the use of the national road system and greenhouse gas emissions. Mainly, motor size has been considered for the pressures of import costs and heavy vehicles when car costs are under strain. During the last term, big steps were taken to allow automobile and products to reflect greenhouse gas emissions. It is normal to continue to reduce the cost of consumer cars and to reduce the cost of goods on electric and tweezers and that environmental vehicles in general carry lower prices and sinks. After the changes made five years ago, car purchases of carbon dioxide emissions have been reduced, and environmentally friendly cars have dropped but increased on large gas trucks. I think it is important for the government to follow a comprehensive policy in taxing cars, which takes into consideration the importance of making it easier for the public to renew their vehicles in order to maintain a state of environment. Today it is not possible for people to invest in modern environmentally friendly cars. Remember the less priced cars that are not suitable under difficult circumstances, e.g. In many parts of the country. The reality is that circumstances and family sizes often require larger animals that are expensive. More industrialized vehicles, which are not enjoying the technological advancements of modern - day savings, are still exposed to older vehicles. I think it is important that the government operates on a global policy model for taxation of vehicles and fuel, where there will be goals in climate, environmental transport, and eco-efficiency of vehicles. Finally, I would like to point out that fuel currency is primarily to improve transport in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u80	V.E.G. President. I'm celebrating this discussion. Today, transport and automobile production are highly developed and have been for several years. That is why it is both right and duty to review the rules that the State imposes on its subjects the cost of vehicles. For example, the development of energy - dependent fuel engines is interesting. In the old days, it was good when a hundred horsepower was reached out of a quart of explosive space, a long crack, and much more horsepower is being taken out of one litre of fuel trucks. The diesil car pool, which has been here and in Europe, is overassessments in many ways because the waste that comes with the exhalation there is very dangerous. The fact is that during a city tour, walking people or bicycles are exposed to a type of so fine that they sit at the bottom of the lungs and cause serious damage to the lungs. So we have to look to various things when we're talking about operating vehicles, but, of course, we're supposed to be looking at the simple, and we're supposed to look around here in a country where there's enough electricity, we're naturally going to direct the purchases and renovates of cars into electric and tar cars, and we're also going to save by means of fuel import currency. In addition, public transportation does not use electricity and assessments more than is being done today. What we need to do is simplify this system and direct the currency so that electricity cars and energy - efficient cars are less expensive than others.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u81	A respectable president. I can agree with the advisor's statement that the jamming level is quite high in this sector. It is not the right course to direct people toward diesel trucks. What we're supposed to do, what we've failed in some way, is direct people to purchase environmentally dependent cars or new energy cars, if we want to call them that. We are very slow about this, and how disappointing it is to see that ministers do not set a good example in public shopping! I find it challenging because in a recent financial program, it shows that by 2020 the share of renewable energy in transport is 10%. Then we'll have to go spit in our palms. I'm not as concerned as with this 5% principle of fuel mixing biodisil oil. There's been some changes. There is much more demands on the origin of this life - giving spirit. There are sustainable criteria to take into account and so forth. Let us not forget that when we're talking about the 5% we're still worried about, 95% of the fossil fuels remain. We don't put a question mark on where the oil cleaners are, where there's no sustainable measurement, that's just a quality reference. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I'd also like to point out all those who don't like to pay taxes to buy electric cars. Then they skip customs, gas bills, special fuel bills, carbon taxes, and pay lower car costs. I don't understand why any independents don't drive around on electric cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u82	A respectable president. I have to admit that this discussion is more interesting than I expected it to be when I saw it on the program. I find some of these problems to be a cause for concern. Specialist and the highest. Ministers say silly things. I think it's a sign that people often try to make rules that seem very good but forget that rules themselves affect behavior and therefore the outcome and can have consequences that were not original goals. We know them, such as by changing things in the community over our heads. But, of course, there is a large justification for things such as carbon charge, so it is similar that fuel and oil in the wide context of society is a problem, society's addiction to these materials is a problem. She's not just a climate problem, she's a Go-politic problem. When we think 100 years into the future, we should aim to replace this material with something else that is used to keep driving cars and many other things in the community as well. That, in short, means electrical car trouble, long-term. Other steps, for example, can be taken in ways that might be measured or that are similar. But for a long time, I think of an electric accelerator as the only way. It is important that we keep in mind that this problem cannot be solved by the market leaders. There we must step in some way. It can mean taxation on gasoline and oil. This method may not necessarily be used primarily but rather as a more positive way to pick up other means of driving, such as electricity or estimate for short - term time, or anything else. I'd like to mention my talk about the first topic today, when it comes to the simple tax system. I think it would be possible to achieve a great deal of relief and simplicity in the tax system by putting it together in a way that makes it easier for others than for those who specialize in a particular category to study it and offer suggestions for improvement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u83	A respectable president. I think this is an interesting discussion too. I think we have to watch the big movie. If we are going to take on an assignment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we need to take on real action; serious action taken by the states, as did the Norwegians I mentioned earlier, with good results. In the Netherlands it is not to sell cars other than electric and hydrogen cars or those who do not release greenhouse gases. Then there are eight states in North America that have decided to try to get rid of such cars by 2050. These are serious goals, and I miss a bit that we do not sit down and set such goals. I think we should be able to do that, plan our course, and work for it. The fees are set to the highest level. The secretary of the budget can go in and check, but these policies must take place across all categories because it has to go ahead of elections. It must be kept between different governments because we have to try to keep our course. I don't completely agree with the person who spoke before me, but... paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, that we should not let the market solve all these matters. I think he's supposed to solve most of these problems. For example, it is to solve the technology we use; we should not decide that there should be only cars here or cars like this, but the market must handle those things. It is not the government's direct decision to do so. But it is our to develop the impulse by saying, as the Norwegian have done, cars or vehicles that do not free greenhouse gases are tax free until we have had some results. Then we can revise the tax environment. I think it's very important that we do this, that we create a powerful catalyst in this which is more beneficial, and also responds to the demands of the day. A senator who started this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u84	Mr. President. I can agree that there is a need and have been an overall review of traffic taxation, but much more of the overall future policy limit. Now that during the last term, this taxation was taken through and all made greener. Before that time, some years before, the tax system was very prehumane when compared with other countries. This was done by a carbon account recording. This was done by counter-regulating carbon dioxide emissions, both transport costs and automobile costs. This was done by specifically and actually making tax-free use of clean or environmental energy sources, such as electricity, methadone, hydrogen, or other products. In terms of diesel prices and gasoline, however, Iceland did exactly the same way as other nearby countries did. There is good material evidence. Thus, progress in the use of diesel engines was ahead of fuel use. It's also, in particular, that the big motor machines in trucks and that's almost entirely diesel machines. Today, the cost of transport in Iceland is enough. So it was and in that sense remains valid evidence for this. But I'll admit that now the attention to later losses has become more focused on the waste pollution, that's what we're going to consider, and we're going to react to events. The big future in this field, and I know the highest. Of course, the secretary of finance is considering it is that as the environmental energy supply sector grows in traffic, sooner or later it will not be avoided that part of traffic will also be taking some cost to finance the transport system. This course must be developed far ahead of time. We need to set specific targets for proportions or such, when we begin to transfer taxes only to electric cars, to metal cars, to hydrogen cars what they are going to be, but there must be some evidence in this and there is no such bullshit that the government should not try to control this in its best consciousness and have some environmental consciousness when it is being developed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u85	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Andersen for this good and needed discussion. During the preparation of this discussion, I put together a transport programme and a bill for 2016; the transport programme that we are working on on on at present. The transport program consists mainly of three parts, a special cost tax on fuel, oil tax, and then a mile tax or weight tax, some 20.5 billion. This is the setting in a transport program. What's not in a transport program is costing cars to 7 billion, worth tax from gasoline to 4.7 billion, and worth tax from cars to less than 7.2 billion, other unscheduled charges around spares, wheel barbeds, etc. I think it's unnatural to charge car owners for these enormous sums and that they don't run into our transport system. I think there's a lot of need to reevaluate the currency and where they're running. I think it's all right to have them great, have them simple, but that they'll all go into the structure and maintenance of the transport system rather than to bring a tax system into the car owners' pocket. I think it's opaque. There is a special tax in the country, and those who drive a lot, those who have two cars. I suggest we re-examine this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u86	A respectable president. There is something special that while we should really do everything we can to stop burning mineral oils, fuel, we rejoice only when the prices of fuel fall into a global market. I don't think it's inconceivable to put a roof, just say, "The fuel can cost me 300 bucks." We're trying to do everything we can to get people to use other energy - i.e. if we agree that burning fuel is bad, and the threat of greenhouse effects and climate change in the world is a threat. For example, we do this with alcohol and tobacco. Then we'll have a lot of taxes. It's not that when things are going well in South America, or wherever they grow their tobacco leaves, and tobacco keeps falling, they'll turn cigarettes down. We keep guards on these products high because we want their consumption to be smaller, just consumer control. But we don't have the guts to do this when it comes to fuel. I'm not necessarily speaking for this, but the other way is to have a major passive operation to direct people to electric cars, metal cars, or other new energy cars. This policy has been determined. I'm glad to hear that. Secretary of finance has an understanding of the need for motivation. We need to do even more. I agree with what has been shown here to set such goals as, for example, goals. The Dutch and the Norwegian do. I think it was a good discussion and a lot more fun than I expected. I thank you for putting it on schedule and for giving it the highest priority. Secretary of the budget to the honor of it. I would like to see much more done in public shopping, i.e. ... onthe part of the state. I don't want to read another story about being bought by some institution because we can have new energy cars of all sizes and types today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u87	A respectable president. I thank all those guys. Councilmen here have spoken to. What's an environmentally friendly car? Most speakers have talked about environmentally friendly cars, but they have not specifically defined which car is environmentally desirable but the next car. [[Up front.]] Although I took special note of the diesel trucks as an example of pollution cars, providing harmful material from public health reasons, diesel trucks, such as fuel cars and other cars, electric cars, will not have been greatly developed. They're getting a lot better from a environmental point of view. All these vehicles pollute less than they did some years ago, and this trend continues. It is important that this development be continued without the intervention of politicians, those who claim to know better. This trend must take place in harmony with both science and the market. That's why I call attention to the maskless consumer control that happens here when taxing cars and fuel. Men have specifically mentioned the electric cars and asked: "Why don't independents drive on electric cars because there are no taxes on electric cars? In new numbers, it caught my attention that electric cars are only less than 1% of newly registered cars. Yet, there are no shorts on electric cars, and substantial discounts are given by the value tax. Why is that? I know, though, that more people are buying these cars. That's why the subsidies of electrical cars are subsidies to more wealthy people here in Iceland. Finally, I want to thank you for this discussion and be happy to begin. A minister is working on these matters, and he has organized a group of employees. I would like to emphasize that policy and legislation in these matters should, of course, come from the Lawgiver rather than from government officials. [[The president calls.]] The local senator wants the development to be reduced to consumer management, to simplify the system, for example, by having one product charge on all cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u88	A respectable president. I was here a few years ago when we changed the cost of fuel. We did so under the premise that the latest science showed that diesel fuels are environmentally friendly and fuel. We ended them by reducing diesil's spells, especially because the diesel market prices had become so high in fuel. Since then, it has turned around. Now a diesel is considerably cheaper fuel than fuel. In the meantime, the latest news is that diesel waste is harmful, especially in urban areas, and some diesel trucks are even banned today. I'll just mention it as an example that we need to be careful, and especially when it comes to making a decision to discriminate one type of fuel from another. I agree with what. advising the price of a car for individuals. I think the gap between the highest rate and the lowest is abnormally low, with an abnormally many steps. This policy also involves the decision to establish a place in Iceland with countries where cars are the most expensive in the world. It's such an consumer control we have here in Iceland. There are only a few other countries where cars are as expensive as here. For example, whether we cross the sea or to countries such as Germany, into the continent of Europe, we can take almost any average car and claim that it costs up to twice as much in Iceland. Does this have to be that way? Do we need such a cruel consumer control? I'm not sure. What I hope to do, like many who have been involved in the discussion, is that we see continued progress in electric cars so that they become clearly environmentally environmental, and then perhaps we are looking at electric tanks that drive them, that they will be as effective at longer distances as we can reach our goals of reducing emissions and that they can compete without any particular desire to other vehicles. This would be a very desirable development, and hopefully we will achieve that goal. [[The president calls.]] In the end, though, let us always remember that our problem with emissions is not the greatest of all, although the car fleet is involved, it is the greatest in other areas, and the drought has had the most damaging effect on the land. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u89	V.E.G. President. The reasons why many of us want to be cautious when it comes to agricultural customs are complex, they have some roots. There are health issues that weigh there, and I sometimes feel that the benefits of living with closer to a disease free farm, such as we do in Iceland, are minor. This is the envy of many nations. We have been able to do this because we have shown great caution. It has been relaxed, and this has been done in the past century. We're still stuck with the chute. Since then, we know how quickly disease can spread between countries. This is very easily observed in our strains that do not have antibodies. It is now talking about establishing an agreement that opens up a large and growing store of meat and agricultural products. Of course, there is a distinction between it and raw meat, making a distinction. But this door has been knocked, and many people have spoken in front of the discussion that opening open doors is a cure for all of us. It's in the spirit of consumers. I speak for consumers when I'm talking about a disease-free product. This is true of all agricultural products. That goes for the chickens, too. That includes the pigs. That's what the eggs are. This is true of the articles that many want to excommunicate as industrial production. However, it is the production of food that is much more disease-free than it is in neighboring countries and the states that are talking about opening the import. It's just reality. It's a field we don't want to synchronize with. We want to maintain our status as long as possible. I said I spoke in spirit and on behalf of consumers. It is for us, the consumers, to receive wholesome product in the storeshelfs. For us, and for our children, and for the grown-ups, for the whole association. These are consumer reasons, perhaps the most important consumer reasons for thinking. I have no doubt that you can import animal product, pork, etc., and fill every shelf in a more expensive product, but poorer in quality. I look to the quality. I'm looking at a non-bacterial food. I'm looking at her. The increased import of such products is now being opened for us and our children and for our community. These are important consumer reasons. Then there's a job plan. We have restrictions on the transport of workers. A lot of restrictions on it. Not everyone comes and gets a job in Iceland. There are a number of people who believe that we are too committed to these things, too restrictive. But there we are defending an Icelandic labour market and trying to prevent unemployment in our country, trying to make sure we don't move into a labor force where there is an offer. That's what I'm thinking. Then there's debate about whether there's going too far or too much of that stuff, but that's what you're thinking. But when it comes to agriculture, it's quite different. Then they don't look at those views. Or far too little, I think I am. Because we are also talking about jobs. We're talking about opening the import of processed meat products to a greater extent than ever, which, of course, will affect the processing of an Icelandic agricultural product. So I don't burn up with a conclusion I'd like to read about, you know, it's being handled. The Labour Society Progress agreed with the conclusions I'm going to read, with the permission of a president, on 20 October 2015. It says: A new cross-country agreement between Iceland and the European Union on agricultural trade and mutual delinquency raises many questions regarding the future of agriculture in Iceland and the secondary activities in the food industry and agriculture. In the area of forward vision, there are some powerful food companies that give dozens of employees work. It is evident that their activities will be greatly shaken by government policy changes in farm customs. Food industry in Iceland is one of the largest industrial subsections with about 17% of the total industry, except for the fish industry. Last year, some 4,000 workers were employed in food production, which most people share in the European Union of Iceland. The forward - looking criticism of the government's consultation with the labor movement, which has great interest in caring for the number of activities at risk, will be confirmed by the General Assembly. Progress calls for a government assessment of its impact on agriculture and food industry workers to change customs protection. It is absolutely irresponsible by the government to confirm the change from the Council unless there is any basis for the impact. Prescient, what's that? There is one of the most powerful labor groups in the country, with its staff active in the food industry. And they work in agricultural areas. Have 35,000 members. The community has also come to a conclusion. They concluded very firmly, the 2016 F.A., where they also want an investigation and that the customs agreement will not be validated until a team with hands has completed its work. Then, according to a text that follows a conclusion from the local community, the local community puts the matter first. When men link these contracts, I tell an Icelandic consumer who goes to the store: I want to turn it down, no matter what the contracts are. I'll do it as a consumer. Apart from the natural, absurd, repetitive thinking of going out in a world that's fighting pollution, it's about to move a piece of meat between countries. Of course, we're supposed to produce the meat and all this heavy food in the vicinity of the environment. What kind of bullshit is this? It's a back door. Why are we entering this world? Why don't we strengthen Icelandic agriculture? Wholesome Agricultural Products? What kind of kickback bullshit is this? I say, top dog. President: I think it's ridiculous and totally absurd that we will accept this proposal unless we first accept the demands of the labor movement, and I refer specifically to the conclusions of Caretaker. The rural communities in the country have also concluded. They do so in the case of Tamive. I received a resolution from one VG's representative, Bjarni Jónsson, who was raised in his rural society. He also wanted an investigation. I don't know any better than it was well received at the time of Skavetir. These voices are being heard in many parts of the country. But I speak here as a consumer representative, speak for those who want to ensure wholesome agricultural products in Iceland and for those who reject the evaporation thinking upon which these contracts make their plans to transfer dead cattle socks from one country to another, through a harsh environmental impact. What kind of bullshit is this? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u90	President. I am here feasting in the Lady of the Allied. I have exactly the rights and rights of the consumer. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson. I know what to do. paritaprevir The count of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson has been traveling abroad, and of the collective speaker, it might be understood that he should be long dead because he has eaten foreign foods that are not as good as Icelandic food. But this talk was not so novel. A senator who has often spoken against foreign relations. But I'm just going to ask the senator: Is the senator willing to turn down from all the imports that have already been authorized by various contracts and high customs and then to stop the international trade with agricultural products? Here are touching talks on development in Icelandic agriculture, and touching talks include the following: the export of Icelandic agricultural products. There's a danger that all markets will end, but it's what it's willing to do. A senator turning down what has already become? Or is this the line? I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u91	V.E.G. President. I know that it is not customary to answer with a different question, but I still want to pray. In his speech, a senator contends that I have spoken against foreign relations. What's the senator doing? How dare he say so? I'd like to ask him to explain his case. We're here on a certain matter of Congress. We are talking about a contract made with the European Union on specific components. That's what's under consideration here, and I'm talking about it exactly. I also say that we receive warnings from labor movements and elsewhere that the community's validation of this contract and people want it before people think about it - I'm opposed to it - review and research. I read of a resolution made by the Labor Organization Frameview in Húsavík, Northeast, which has within its ranks a quarter of a thousand active in one of the largest agricultural areas in the country. I say, why don't we just let this review go on before we proceed with this matter? Then I reasoned that it is a fallback thought to promote an increase in international contracts with heavy groceries. I think it's repetitive and unwanted. I've come up with reasons for that. Then I allow myself to speak to the truth and the fact that we live in an disease - free farm, whereas most other nations do. It's just fact and reality, and I drew attention to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u92	President. I asked a fairly simple question, and I didn't get an answer. On the other hand, I have a right to discuss the issue. A senator for foreign communication, which was not a question, but my comment. I asked him why. A senator would want to turn down the existing contracts, stop the import that has already become, be purchased in commercial stores in Iceland, and have rather enriched the Icelandic board. For the sake of reading from the findings of the Framework and the Farmers Association - I remember as much as I can, for example. Since it could contribute to urban development, which is a natural prerequisite for rural living, to urban development. I also understand the Farmers'feelings because they want to defend a certain garden - but they are not defending the standard of living. I'm sure there was ever thought of living in this respectable organization. My question stands unprovoked, wanting to go. A senator will turn down any contracts that have already taken place, or are there the lines here and now? I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u93	V.E.G. President. There was a lot of discussion about EFTA in the past, and the evidence against it in defense of Iceland's production was conclusively valid. This happens in various ways. However, I do not encourage us to come back from the trend, but there is nothing wrong with it or wrong with wanting to protect jobs in the country, whether it is a furniture industry, such as it was in its time, or a variety of other productions, shipworks, etc. There's nothing wrong with that. It is not forbidden to have such opinions, and it is wrong to try to exasperate all political talk from this house by minimizing human reasoning and also the way it was here. Those who had warnings in their day had something to offer that was truly right. Then there is another development that has benefited. That's just the way life works, and that's how it works. Hv. A senator said he wasn't asking me about my position on foreign relations; he just said that I was against them in general. But that is not true. [[Up front.]] I'm very into international relations. All my careers have been involved in such activities in the field of labor movements and the political scene. However, I have not had a narrow - minded attitude, not the mousehole of the European Union. It's too small for me. I want to have the whole world underneath. I want the most foreign relations in the world. Then I'd like them to be done on specific grounds, but I'm involved in foreign relations. I haven't spoken for turning down or closing all the imports in the country. [[The president calls.]] I'm discussing this bill here that I'm opposed to. I don't think that this proposal should be approved and that there is a minimum requirement that there will be some proposals and requests that have come from labor movement, from various localities, of the previous evaluation and investigation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u94	Mr. President. It's a lively discussion. It's a big matter. It is not surprising that there is a division of opinions and debates. As we have considered, there is considerable uncertainty in these contracts, both the customs and the market agreements. It's like this has been spoken for, too, even though it's the highest. The sole minister of foreign affairs in the hall, these two contracts, the livestock contract and the customs deal, are undeniably related. It hangs out, and it really needs to talk about it in context. It was interesting what happened earlier when these effects were spoken of in many places, not just in pig farms or in egg farmers or in chicken farmers, but in the community. What may be serious about this is that this contract is signed without consulting with the agriculture. It is, of course, very sad, and it cannot be a chance to settle any agreement, whether in the domestic agreement or in this agreement. It was interesting as hell. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson said early today, saying that if he had been in his position, i.e. The head of the local community, would have broken up his campaign for the livestock deal when he had seen this toll agreement. I think that's saying a lot. There is a man who speaks with great knowledge about these articles, and I know in some way how the sound is being heard in that study. One thing that should be the aim of domestic agreements and these toll agreements is to ensure the survival of farmers and, of course, a fair price and clean product for consumers. We're talking first and last of all about small family companies who are in the Icelandic countryside, and hence, such agreements, whether toll or toll contracts, are enormously urban. I think we all want to have the countryside built and secure the survival of farmers as soon as we want to see the production on a reasonable surface. But this was a product. This is also important and was quoted from union contracts. Of course, under these are the products, both in the meat industry and in all, in slaughter and in the process. Some of this certainly is seasonal while the rest of the year is around, such as. The pig production. There would be tremendous results if a large stream of land were simply to fall off. No one would think that would happen. Then we are also talking about food and so forth. This could make other products of other manufacturers much more expensive. It is important, as soon as we discuss the agricultural system and policy, in fact, the entire chain of value, to consider the cost process and the cost and the consequences. That's why I say and join with what. The last speaker said that it would be wise to examine it before continuing to do so. When the livestock contract was discussed during the day, we also discussed the cost of farmers taking on, some of them much more than others, in implementing new animal resources, which, of course, are a very good case, but it has been shown that we are doing this contract with a very little support and much less than our competitive countries, which, according to this tax agreement, have to come into our market completely cleaner. The other day we were discussing the exact consequences of this, i.e. negative effect for the finished population. They can't stand under a shovel of cheap meat. The development in Denmark was that there was a dramatic decline, and there were collapses, and 200 families that broke down and that have not been measured more since 1994. It was primarily a low price for milk and pork. This may be one of the things these contracts could lead to, certainly lower prices, but I'm not convinced that all results would be good for Icelandic products. It has only been killed on the import and how much increase it has been. In the pork season, it has increased by 3◯10% between 2008 and 2012 and is now 20% now, close to total intake, and the chicken has gone from 8% to 20%. Of course, this is enormous. There's some adjustment period here. Two years is a very small time, as it is given most of the time. It's very little that falls for four years. I think that's one of the things that must be taken into consideration. Of course, I won't agree to this deal. This has been said about meat spills, i.e. when passed by tollvota. Today the site was decaf, or bacon, which was being transferred into open tollovates, not through traditional quotas. It tells us how much toll protection is. Like the chicken, how much import is on the chest and so on. I don't think there's been enough protection there. A respectable president. Of course, our clean air, clean water, and clean land affords ample opportunities. Happily, we have had good fortunes to ban hormones and growth - inspiring materials to produce meat in Iceland. We put some antibiotics in the feed. I think that was a very important decision and has put us among the top countries of food production, end up in absolute minimum use, which also has a major impact on our country's public health. Not long ago we read in the news that large amounts of antibiotics were found in Danish children. There is reason to draw attention to it and to support it. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson's son was even. To say. Those two items I listed certainly make the agriculture more adverse than the person we are competing for, but they are also very important. The next thing we talked about with the livestock contracts was that we should deal with the next major project that would involve not allowing the use of genetically modified raw materials to produce food in Iceland. I think it's just one of the most important projects necessary to keep us up in the highest order of the Icelandic agricultural products. In this case, I feel that I undermine the better quality of animals, struggle with infectious diseases, and drug - free agriculture. Oral meat is not free of antibiotics. This is exactly what it was said today that in Britain's meat table, 70% of the chicken had been tested. It is noteworthy that we are moving in to the extent that we are witnessing while there is a negative debate about Icelandic agriculture when it comes to supporting it. I don't really think it's a good idea that we don't know how to deliver the products we're bringing in while we increase the demands of Icelandic agriculture. We should insist on knowing as much about what we're importing. So much import when we can produce much more is very negative from an environmental point of view. It should be our goal to help to produce our own food in our environment. We are here discussing reductions in customs, increasing freedom of access. Then we should ask and ask for answers to whether there is no support for the products transferred to the country. Are we sure that the meat we bring into the country, whether it has customs or tolls, will not be given any support in the large world to enter the United States market? Not me. I don't know. Besides, I don't know so much about the origins of many goods, since there have been doubts about it in many large warehouses, where food is introduced from around the world. So important is the fact that products, as has been repeatedly claimed, are not fully reduced tolls or tolls to consumers. The fact that tolls return to consumers is, unfortunately, not valid. At the end of this, it is not a specialist phenomenon to negotiate with the agriculture as we can see in our neighboring countries and in the EU. We import about half of all the agricultural products that we need instead of protecting our loyalty and wholesome products and powerful productions within the country, as it is realistic to do. As soon as we increase food security, we reduce national and global transport. This council proposal narrows it down. We are to promote sustainable development through increased domestic feed production and support family members instead of accepting this toll agreement. It is practical to have a powerful and progressive Icelandic agriculture. [[The president calls.]] Unfortunately, these two treaties, I don't think, do they?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u95	A respectable president. In this regard, we can ask ourselves, " What are the goals behind government action at any given time and their involvement in such projects as agriculture? ' Of course, especially viewed as agricultural, you are concerned about certain factors that can justify such interference. There are such factors as eco-friendly production methods, ethical manufacturing techniques, especially those with respect to the well - being of animals, such as the purpose of supporting and strengthening traditional economic culture in the country. When a customs policy is implemented, whether for an increase or a decrease in customs, it must be done either by the sector or by the consumers, preferably by both groups. Whether these goals are fulfilled with the current contract before the council can be wondered. The Treaty between Iceland and the European Union on the trade of agricultural products allows for the increase in customs in cattle, pigs and poultry so that much more of these products can be imported in addition to the quantity already transferred, which is quite serious. Farmers say that this will have a negative effect on these articles and will be the worst for the family, which they believe is not going to be able to survive an additional shovel of cheap meat. As a result, representatives of the articles claim that the treaty will further damage Icelandic agriculture, and some even claim that it will be devastating to them. Here the development of this import and customs has been briefly attributed. The value of imported pork in 2008-2012 ranged from 31⁄210% but has greatly changed over the last four years. The import is now approaching 20% of the total intake. The share of the import of chicken meat in the total market has grown from 8% in 2010 to 20% in the previous year. There is a similar history in the beef area where the value of imported beef in total consumption has increased from 4.5% 2010 to 10% 2013 and in the past four years it has increased very rapidly, reaching about 30% of total consumption. Then this new deal comes on top of it; 500 tons of pig meat, 596 tons of bull, 656 tons of chicken, 200 organic tons of meat, and so on. What I think may matter mostly, though I am not a fan of customs and customs generally, there are views that are related to wholesome and environmental health. It is now, in a large way, free of the excessive use of antibiotics, although it is not unprovable. However, I believe that the use of antibiotics in Icelandic agriculture is much less than used in our neighboring countries. There are now extensive changes in various fields because of improved animal resources. Whether this policy on customs serves as the goal of improving the well - being of animals and the fighting of infectious diseases and drug - free agriculture can be considered. Of course, the meat being brought in is not free of antibiotics. As we have seen above, we know the next few things about the animals that come here in the form of product. It may be asked that, at the same time as we demand, there is a decrease in products from areas where the same standards do not exist. In this body of council proposals, communication with the Bavarial League is traced. It says that farmers asked for this toll agreement, which is now being discussed for the council. It would be right for farmers to make comments at their previous customs contract from 2007, since there were not all cases of mutual tollovians back in order to move out. However, they claim that there was no petition for increase in customs in the country, pointing out that the bill's report went down to describe the lack of communication with the agriculture before the contract was signed. There is no mention of farmers'protests to this agreement. However, at the 2016 F.A., this Custom Convention strongly protested that it was not associated with the government's efforts to promote domestic food production. Governments are required to ship immediately in place of a farm representative group that will evaluate how individual habitats can cope with the consequences of the agreement, and particularly pigs and poultry culture, with massive loss of income in these articles. A panel also suggested that a team be established to assess the costs and impacts of new agricultural regulations and that the area in neighboring countries would be viewed as a standard for support. They also request a professional assessment of these matters and ask that the tax agreement be validated only when the staff have submitted the results and needed counter measures by the government. So this is the attitude of the town council, which clearly does not exaggerate. In the context of the matter, in view of what is happening in connection with the market agreements and all the turmoil around them, there may be reason to turn to ears when there is so much disunition. It has also been shown that as the import is increasing, it is being able to contribute greatly to the transport of food when more meat can be produced. The view is that the import of meat is negative from a environmental point of view, and it is reasonable to say that it is more likely to contribute to the production of food in the closer environment by wholesome and environmental methods. These are the views that I think it is best to take into consideration when considering this matter, the viewpoint that needs to be developed every time we discuss customs protection and toll policy on importing agrienvironmental products. Because, as mentioned above, consumers' reasons are important, but consumers are more than just buying less product. The consumers in general want to be confident that they are receiving wholesome products, well produced, where basic principles for the well - being of animals and environmental factors are respected in production. This is what I wanted to promote in this discussion. I hear more senators here strike the same line. It is natural to see if something is listened to these views.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u96	V.E.G. President. It has been interesting to observe the discussion on the product of a tax agreement with the European Union. At the outset, I'd like to say that I miss being sent by agents. The matter will be followed by this discussion referred to by a foreign press committee. At least I'd like to go to bed. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir is certainly in the room listening. But I believe that because of the importance of this matter and the degree of criticism that has come up with is very important. For more information and observation, members of the Parliament who receive this committee pay close attention and are well involved in the discussion. You see, there have been a number of things that have been done during the discussion. Of course, it boasts that it is impossible to discuss this matter in isolation and not put it in the context of the domestic agreements. There's no market agreements for that. State Department. So I want to agree with them. Councilmen who have talked about what they were talking about. The job committee will also need this subject for discussion and discussion. I think it's completely absurd and will speak for it in the Committee. Hv. paritaprevir The concentration of Jónasson's son spoke of an wishes for unions and cohesion to assess the impact of the contract. I find it very interesting and something I want to see if we don't have to do, if we don't need to get more information about how this deal would affect Iceland if it was approved. Significantly, during the discussion today, those who have spoken up have been extremely critical of the contract. This has also been noted in the discussion, in the case of which. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son, that the beginning and setting of this matter must be considered more carefully. That's when they even came. carried notes on the subject in the report. Hv. A senator noted that there were probably memos in the Ministry on these matters. I think it must be useful for the State Department to get these notes to go over and put in touch with this matter, although it would be only in confidence if these are documents of the species, which I must admit I do not know well enough. But I think one of the things a foreign business committee needs to do at her job is to examine this aspect as well. There is a lot of work left to do on this matter and it is absolutely inevitable that we will go on. I'd also like to put this matter in a slightly different context and perhaps more than that, because it has been spoken mainly of in terms of domestic contracts. I'll admit, though, that this isn't entirely related to what I'm going to talk about. Many have come in and talked about the security of their speeches today and have said that this proposal, if approved, will reduce food security. I find it interesting to put it in perspective with the next issue on the Generalist program, which is a bill for the National Security Council, which is so directly linked to a new national security policy. The national security policy is very special because it discusses national security in a very large context but not in the narrow context that often wants to occur where national security is considered only from defenses against military and military defenses, the policy is also discussed on national security on a much wider basis. Seven. A recent national security policy is precisely described as being a government policy in public security and security, which is part of the national security policy for Iceland, taking into account threats related to climate change, natural disasters and food safety, as well as health safety and epidemic. I think it's a monopoly that we have to deal with this toll deal in that light. This is also part of our national security policy. So it isn't only with the domestic agreements, as important as it is, and they're not related, they're also entering food security, that I wanted to mention this point in my speech. All of that, I think we're sitting in our heads. This is a matter of great concern to the foreign press, a search for history, and then, of course, we must make sure that the matter is settled. The employment committee, who has the livestock contracts on her mind. We need to take this bill and look into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u97	President. I'm going to take this public address to release any charges against me. A senator says I haven't been following the discussion. I've been looking at the conversation a little bit. I'm also going to say that they have not explained much to me, what has been discussed in the discussion. If there's something wrong, if I haven't understood anything, I can look it up in the papers and watch it again in the recordings. I'm sorry, but I'm not going to be able to understand these charges. A senator to a representative of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I've observed the discussion on a computer, and I've been working on other things in order to make the thing more active. But the discussion has not added much unless I know less about the concept of food security, which now seems to be used primarily to create some customs and protection barriers for the sector where people live in quiet and seyrium.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u98	V.E.G. President. I want to pray. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason's apology for not mentioning him in my speech, for it is certainly true that he has attended at least part of his discussion and shared in it with objections. Of course, I should have mentioned him at the same time that I mentioned why. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. Here, I would like to apologize to the senator for the error on my part and hope that he will respect my apology. However, I must say that I have a different experience. Senator. It has helped me to understand the factors involved. In our discussion, we need to take into account a foreign press committee. At least the discussion has benefited me. I must be glad. Me and what. A senator will continue the discussion, and hopefully he will inform each other of the committee's work rather than reduce our knowledge there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u99	President. Yes, I accept this excuse completely. I just didn't take it personally. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator's been asking for my forgiveness for accusations. I look at an excuse far different from most people in this world, but it's now okay. I hope that when we take this matter up for discussion on the State Department that there will be some reasonable basis for it to come up with some reasonable conclusion on this matter. It is now quite simply that agricultural trade is part of a world trade, just as other countries buy a lot of food from Iceland produced here in an reasonably wholesome way, and other nations produce food in a wholesome way each one in their own way. There is nothing to be afraid of in that regard. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I'm just saying here and now that the world's commercial affairs have also increased the well - being of the world, but isolationism has rather become a low standard of living. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon here spoke of nature. This may be what needs to be discussed in Icelandic agriculture, perhaps even to the root of the Icelandic sheep. That's part of what needs to be discussed here, whether it's in the livestock contract or this chapter. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u100	V.E.G. President. I'm glad that I'm and what. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason seems to be going into the discussion. The Foreign Affairs Commission is at peace. I think it matters, and I must always be able to make arrangements for any of the members of Congress, wherever they stand, to enter a relatively happy conversation. But I think that's exactly what happened at the end of the matter. In view of the environmental impacts of agriculture, whether here in Iceland or anywhere else in the world, a senator needs to consider these matters. I introduced it in my talk about the livestock deals that it was just one of the things to consider, whether growth would lead to overwork of land, one of the things we would need to examine in an environmental light. There is another thing that I believe is that we also need to look at, perhaps rather at home. State Department. It is the environmental impact that comes from transporting food long corners of the world. I think we have to take it very seriously. If we are serious about getting control of climate change, we need to examine how we supply food unduly between countries. Of course, there are a number of foods that are needed, but there are quite a number of things that I think we could grow around here, thus affecting the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u101	Mr. President. There is some fault when such large cases are presented before the council in the form of a synonym. Then, in reality, there is a time of public speakers and opportunities to present viewpoints in a very limited way. We've got a previous round. about the ten and then five minutes, and then it's closed up the second round. There is little harmony with the basics of three discussions and two coverages. open. Anyway. First of all, I agree with that as long as possible. paritaprevir The Þóra Árnadóttir stressed and rejoiced that as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, she will take advantage of it and will probably be supported by this case, that this case must be won in a very rich agreement with a professional health committee. That's totally obvious. This is no less important, since these two cases, the livestock contract on which the current employment committee and the customs agreement go to the Foreign Affairs Committee, are in many ways closely intertwined. Together, it will shape largely the agrienvironmental environment for the next few years if this is approved. The points I want in seconds highlight at the end are first of all the things I tried to come in for just a few seconds and was said by the wind. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson on the question of balance in the negotiation. When the tiny Iceland with 330 you. the market of over 500 million people in Europe, and the farms are largely in tons in excess of tons. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, so I still quote him, said that he felt that it was not a balance. I also remind you of the uncertainty that if we ever increase in the next year, Iceland will lose or break out the health and loyalty requirements we have recently built on, that it can protect our farms and wholesome production by banning the import of raw meat and raw foods and maintaining strict disease and loyalty rules. There I would have wanted to see the trend further and further in making Icelandic agriculture even more efficient and healthful in this regard. To continue to reduce antibiotic use as possible in order to reduce the likelihood of resistant bacteria, to maintain, of course, the absence of growth hormone, and then to the point where farming raw materials in Iceland are made from unsaturated substances. Everything would be fine things for the Icelandic agriculture to fly into the future. I find ambitions low, and I wonder where the present government, the existing government groups already stand in place of protecting loyalty and wholesome health and to keep it in mind that the land remains as the situation may allow itself to be satisfied and provide for the safe supply of food for the population, is laid here a basis for increasing monotonity and transport from food land to land and from corner to earth. Evolution is moving toward what is often called monoectour, or monotonous production, and extensive transport. It is contrary to all laws on sustainable development and is in opposition to the growing views of conscious and informed consumers who want to go back to the source of marked products that can be traced from the manufacturer and the meat table or the CD. Instead of continuing to sustain the growth of domestic agriculture, e.g. by promoting domestic feeding, growing grain, instead of providing special support to the family farms and against industrial development, which is a major criticism in which these issues are being discussed, and instead of setting us up, for example. A goal to build on genetically modified materials is to look more and less toward a different direction. The import has increased tremendously over the years, and agriculture and farmers are being thrown into this, the carnivorous industry, and all the agricultural services, in short terms. So, may I close, although I don't have time to read it, Mr. President, would you mind with the conclusion of the 2016 DG? Some of the former members of the government may have sat there. It is one of the most severe condemnations and protests to these practices, beginning with the words: The 2016 Convention severely protests a customs agreement with the EU since the fall of this year, and runs how it is in complete opposition to what is claimed by men in the word of the EU. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, I'm glad it goes by at least In the fall of this year, people are dealing with payment, and I really believe there are a lot of things between today's discussion and the livestock deal that draws out these two matters together, together, not going through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I must admit, though, that I do not fully understand all the factors in his case. Food security is mentioned and self-sustained. Likewise, its importance and the positive trend that more and more consumers want to know from source, source, etc. As a result, opposition to opening the market is a factor. I don't see any opposition to the origin of products and increased competition for food production. Given that we as consumers get to know, we have a choice. We will soon receive 2 million tourists and will need to make sure that there is enough food and that is special. But see what? A senator no difference between the traditional agriculture and the factory structure? There is a huge difference between the number of farms and those with very few farmers - I think most of the property of the production of two species, perhaps four, five, something like that - and the hundreds, even thousands of sheep and milk productions, for example. Got it. Don't you think it's right for a senator to separate himself from one another? I ask because I don't understand how a paradox can be from having a proof of origin, which I think is very good and important, and having the openings. I don't see that it can go against each other. [[The president calls.]] Then I'll ask you why. A senator makes no distinction between the traditional agriculture and the factory farming.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u103	Mr. President. I don't think there's much to discuss that the traceability of product is naturally different and easier to do when it comes to domestic production than import, e.g. the amount of meat that has been practiced recently. I've seen the packs that freeze cattle or chicken burns or what they are. There's hardly a masquerade about how it was made and where it comes from. We have two good ways of informing consumers about what they are buying; other than the rules we have generally taken in order to produce, animal travel and loyalty, to ban growth-gaining hormones and such things, and then direct trace completely down to producers and even to a single sheep in the case of sheep. Food security, sustainableity, traceability, minimising eco-efficiency, it's no joke today. That's all it means. If a person is to enter a new environment period, he must give serious discussions about all of these things, and consumers will keep people in touch with the material in the coming years. Therefore, we are also to ask ourselves: Are we not to some extent victims of archeological ideologies when it comes to these old ideas that only the workings of the world and that one should produce all steel and others all of food, and then, just switch them through the world's movements? It's a ideologies that collapse to the foundation and destroy the planet. That's what I thought was pretty accepted in this all-out shit. There is a difference between conventional agriculture and e.g. these articles, pigs and poultry farming? Yes, to a degree. But that is not the case. The pig farm has a total of 1,915 families with about 1/3 of the market scattered across the part of the country. They are extremely important and combined to become part of the agriculture and agriculture services in those areas. So the sharp separation that humans sometimes wish to adopt does not draw real support when it comes to the chain effect it would have, for example. have these units lying in large quantities of and after sitting either two factories or nothing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u104	A respectable president. I don't often agree with what. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon. What I appreciate about him is that he's completely honest in his politics. He says that it is out - of - date to have free trade between countries, that someone makes steel, and that it is just sailed between continents, and that it is all out of date. I just completely disagree, basically, in terms of that. A product's solventability. I just agree with what. In this regard, a senator criticized the need for a foreign product. True, the Icelandic product is also missing, and we could do much better in this regard and have not used that means. This involves, in effect, not the source, but the rules or standards. I hope we don't have to make all the rules. I know the most of the stores here in the capital area, and I now feel that various stores are making much more of an effort to inform us about the source of the problem. I think it's great. While there are natural shops or smaller stores, Mrs. Lyla and various others, I feel that things are getting better, and that makes me feel like an example. However, it does not focus on where the product comes from. Rather, it is the question of the procedure. Hv. A senator says there's a $146:15 nest, about 20 people who produce pork and chicken meat. True, it doesn't seem logical to me. It is now very little, even though we Icelanders may not be particularly many, to have a maximum attendance of 20 to 325 parties on these issues. Not much. Hv. A senator talks about self-sustaining, which is very important. That's what I'm talking about. A senator with some opinions about sustainability in the environment? Today, there have been reports from nature - protection organizations that they are concerned about overindulging and so forth, infested with livestock. [[The president calls.]] If I understand why. The senator's right is against import, but we need to increase the production by far the most significant means. [[The president calls.]] It is therefore a question of where it will be done if we are going to stick to the views and goals of sustainability. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u105	Mr. President. Well, if I start with this last one, I now warned about the livestock deal because of the incentive for growth that is built into it. I pointed out that if, for example, Sheep large numbers in the country and may be set on another 100,000 to 150,000 winter feeders in the next three years, this will cause environmental conflict, the application of the land, etc. I thought it was pretty good. There may be more at home in the discussion of farm contracts than this. In spite of all of this, there are still quite a number of good - looking families, not factories, in the pig farms, spread throughout the country. I don't have accurate numbers in my head, but I know a lot of these people in Western, Northern, South. The same is true in part in egg production. Perhaps chicken production, poultry production has become the longest development in terms of compression and development. However, this becomes evident when considering that it is still interwoven because these parties are large customers of the feeding plants and take on large amounts of the transport costs and distribution costs. These groups are large in slaughter and feed the raw elements in whole countries, etc. This needs to be examined, and I hope that a foreign - business committee and a professional health committee will consider it very closely together. The chain effect and the integration effect on this is much larger than they would like to be when they jump into a discussion about traditional agriculture and then something completely different and totally unrelated. It's not. Of course, there is a twist beneath respect. A senator says that I object to international business, or non-police. But unorthodox marketism and ungained capitalism in this, which takes no account of environmental considerations, let alone social views, will not result in success. Where do we come from mainly in Western Europe? They're from China. [[The president calls.]] The wings and legs are cut off and used at home, while the chests are transferred to Europe. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur nature of Þórðarson's statement that the origin of this product is easy, what was the way of the animals? [[The president calls.]] What did they get to pay that bore them, etc.?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u106	President. It was originally to discuss this body of interpretation, a customs agreement between Iceland and the European Union, along with the market agreement. For some reason, this was not done. There were rumors of some difference here and there, that would have been that way, but I don't know anything about it. During the discussion about the livestock contract, we were talking about farmers'grants in ten years up to 160 billion. As I said, there are many ways in which I don't object to strengthening farmers. I believe that the system needs to be changed as it is now, but I now say earlier, these amounts of money in the livestock agreement, and beyond that, the customs protection enjoyed by the Icelandic agricultural products is over 9 billion a year. So it is not as if the government does not support Icelandic agricultural production. I'd like to say about this deal that I'm in favor of him, and I'm in favor of all the arrangements that are made to bring in Iceland's stock markets and food prices. I think there are two things that are mostly wrong with us, but there are two things that make it hard to live here, making it hard for young people to settle in; it's low buy and a high meal. If we can raise the pay and reduce the price of food, there will be more money for young people to put in housing and other items immediately. But these are basic needs. That's why I'm happy with everything that's going to reduce food prices in Iceland. This case leads to that. I don't know exactly how much these reductions are, but it's not like we're having these tolls, perhaps, letting some new product into the country that hasn't been here before. It's all floating in foreign chicken meat and foreign pork because we don't make enough. In fact, the excess demand for beef is because we do not produce enough. We need to move this in for dinner and for all the guests who come to this country. Then people say, " They're only supposed to eat lamb. ' There's one thing we're getting. We're getting more exports for tax-free lamb to the European Union. People say, "Yes, the tourists are only supposed to eat lamb. " But foreigners are not as accustomed as we are to eat lamb, and they do not like it. Will we stand at restaurants and say, "I guess that's good, good, as they say sometimes with children when they're being made to taste something new. That's not the way life is. So I welcome this proposal. But I also want to guess, in terms of the livestock contracts we talked about last week, that there was also a great change in customs on milk powder and cheese, and there was something else that I don't remember exactly what was. There is no small increase in farms asking that these products be mixed with livestock contracts. That's a 100% rise. A respectable president. I want this whole country built. I want to strengthen farmers. I'd like to do it in a different way than we do now. I want to do it so that food prices in the country are reduced. That's why I support this case because I think it's one of the most urgent things to be done here, that's to reduce food prices, and to buy the raise.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u107	A respectable president. I agree that it's difficult to discuss this because we have so little time, but I don't think it's possible to discuss these matters unless we're dealing with the livestock. When people discuss these matters, even though they come from different angles, I think they can reach conclusions that are acceptable to most people. But to walk in the way we do now and make deals very long, to ten years, without taking up a discussion about goals and ways and how we're going to get them -- I don't think it's a good deal, and I really think it's going to damage industry like agriculture. This creates unnecessary agitation and conflict that can be avoided. I think that on the basis of this, most people agree on goals and paths. I'm glad it's sort of got out of each of us. A senator has come to appreciate the importance of producing healthy agricultural products. Now I'm one of them. On the other hand, if anyone wants to buy something else or eat something else, it is only a personal decision. I don't think we're supposed to decide what to eat. But I'd like to know what's on the table, what they're buying, and I'm sure we consumers have the right to do it. I think it's missing in the discussion with many stakeholders. I call attention to the fact that this is an enormous increase. I don't think any government ever opened the market as much as this government with these contracts. When people criticize it, as if it is bad in its nature, we must also bear in mind that we have two million tourists here. If you're going to say, "Hey, we're just going to do this with our own production, "to close markets, you just have to explain how to do it in a very short time." We need to do so in a very short time. But I think we should wear certain things. I mention again, and it has to be done in discussions about this matter, that we have to decide how we're going to conduct the sale or open up with these tollrots. This auction isn't about to work. It makes it all too expensive. There is no perplexing reason for that. It's just a violation of consumers. We're going from 750 tons to 3,812 tons when it's all taken together, so you can see the magnitude of the change. Also, I don't know if it was discussed in the agricultural discussion that we are to achieve a solidarity over the end of that rule from the competitive people. That's what I think is something that we should be doing for all things, especially because I feel that it is something that we're supposed to be dealing with. We may need to strengthen the competitive environment in some way. Then I'm referring to the surveillance system, that there are stronger institutions with better knowledge and that we are using experience from other nations. I think there's a lot of parishion for products that are wholesome and good. Happily, we did not do the avenues that surrounding nations, whether by means of growth - inspiring hormones or by antibiotics, as they do in the European Union. It's working with us now. There are some very thought - provoking reports that come from an intolerance to antibiotics. I think most informed persons, I'm not gonna speak for anyone else, but I find it when you go shopping both within the country and outside, look to these factors to a greater extent than you've been before. I have never seen in an Icelandic store a comparison of Icelandic meat and animal meat from other countries when it comes to the use of antibiotics. If I was selling Icelandic product, I would draw attention to it and, for example, I would teach the people who come here what is the difference between our product and our other products. If no one tells them, how can humans know? We are to promote competition, but if we really want to help poor nations, we will do so by opening up our markets, including food production. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the European Union is not poverty and is a protection alliance, but we are expected to promote free trade and to set goals regarding wholesome production.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u108	A respectable president. The government sees agriculture as one of the nation's most important sectors. The rising demand for global food creates a global agricultural system. I reiterate that toll numbers are not being negotiated with sensitive products. The long-term stock contracts are positive because they increase the safety of farmers. I think it's very successful for the country and country to see how it's intertwined. There's two more things I'd like to mention. I would also like to say that the discussions here are very good and helpful. First of all, there has been a study of ways in which the distribution of food can be carried out that could be met with producers, e.g. by assigning the dinners more often over the year, limiting the part of quathane in pork to deficient product species, and looking to a way of calculating the quathane, meat with or without bone. I would also like to mention and reiterate that on April 8 of the past, a marine eco-efficiency minister set up a team that has the role of assessing the impact of customs agreements with the EU and evaluating how individual habitats can cope with the consequences of the contract, especially when pig and poultry farming are observed. Hope is there for the group to arrive at a conclusion soon. I have to say, I agree with them why. Councilmen who have discussed the importance of making good use of this work and taking care of health issues. Second, it is sometimes asked if the rise in EU tolevotes is in addition to the open quota. On the contrary, the plan is that these new dishes replace open tollovitas that have been released in recent years to respond to market conditions. They have not been supported by international agreements but have been released to meet domestic needs. New treaties bound tollovate will be replaced. In view of the number of imports, it can be expected that they will go a long way to reflect the real import in the current situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u109	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to the National Security Act. On April 13, the International Parliament adopted a non-contracted synopsis of national security policy for Iceland. The national security policy stated that the government's policy for national security is based on the commitments of the United Nations found in its Continental Convention and that the nation's starting point is guided by democracy and respect for the legal states and international law, human kindness and protection of human rights, the equality of all and sustainable development, disarmament and peaceful solution of issues. The principle behind policy management is that Iceland is a small country that has no authority or will to control an army and ensures its safety and protection through active cooperation with other countries and international institutions. The national security policy covers global, social and military risk factors and consists of active foreign policy, public security and social security with other countries. The policy provides 11 emphasis within this three - point system that constitutes the core of national security policy. The final focus indicates that national security legislation with its specific laws, which assess the state and outlook of security in a routine way, will be followed by national security policies, reflecting the broad vision of national security that appears in the policy, and will represent its revision at least once every five years. A respectable president. The bill assumes that in Iceland the work of a national security board, which Prime Minister grants leadership and employment status. In addition, the National Security Council is expected to be the seat of the Secretary of State and Minister of State, the Ministry of the Council, the State Marshal and the Director of the National Social Affairs of Iceland. Then the National Security Council may appoint more ministers, officials, individuals, and representatives of a legal body for specific matters. This combination well reflects the structure and importance of national security policy and national security and security planning in this country. The mission of the National Security Council is to monitor the implementation of national security policy as well as to consult a national security site. Again, the Council is designed to evaluate the security status and outlooks and to discuss other national security issues as well as open and democratic debates on security and defences in cooperation with events of the university community, interests and the media. I think the educational and information programme is very important, and it is urgent that we can accept criticism and open up discussions and communicate on this important series by organized and regular means. Meetings with the Council are also very important to me, which is specifically indicated in the bill. The National Security Council must inform the General on the implementation of national security policies each year and any changes that the National Security Council feels the need to make the policy should be carried out by the General Assembly. Furthermore, according to the bill, the General State Department of State shall inform the Generals of any issues likely to affect national security policy and its implementation. In addition, the bill expects regular meeting of the National Security Council as well as a prime minister to meet if events occur or are imminent, which might affect national security. In other words, this is the setting for regular consultation and coordination and the setting called together in case of trauma or imminent danger. In this context, it is relevant to consult the Public Safety and Security Council established by the P.R. 82/2008. There is an overlap in the function of these two, yet their nature differs. Thus, the Public Safety and Security Council has primarily a policy-makers in the field of public defences while the National Security Council is far more comprehensive and includes active security policies, foreign policy and local defences as well as public security. The bill also contains regulations on confidentiality and information, reporting and regulations as well as regulations. Then it is stated in commentaries to the law that Iceland's commitments to security and protection do not interfere with the political exchange between recruitment and Iceland's management board. A respectable president. The safety profile in Europe has deteriorated over the past few years. The situation continues to be very sensitive in the east of Ukraine, and the rise of terrorist and extreme organizations continues. It is best to remember the horrors of Brussels on March 22 of the past. These and other events of the past months remind us that security is not automatic and that incomprehensible atrocities can happen near us in time and bed. The situation in Syria and at the Mediterranean level has resulted in the largest moving of people since World War II, which is again testing the interiors of Europe and its solidarity. Similarly, the safety profile in the North Atlantic has changed in recent years, and there has been an increase in the number of military activities in our immediate vicinity. This year's budget allows for additional protection donations, including in the name of the united Atlantic Community, and with increased support to the nations that are keeping regular air space monitoring here in the country. This trend reminds us of the need to pay more than the usual attention to safety at home, to synchronise strings, and to achieve the greatest agreement on key safety and protection lines. If a national security bill is to legalize it actually marks the final level of work in an Iceland National Security Policy Convention that began in 2007 when a cross-cutting team was set up, which provided a risk assessment report, including to suggest that a complete policy in security and defense would be established by the National Security Council. With the report and its suggestions, the General of September 16, 2011, approved a resolution made by the then foreign minister. paritaprevir Sgt. Skarphéðinn, Össur of Skarphéðinsson, to set up a Senate committee with representatives of all classes attending the General Assembly to work out proposals for national security policies for Iceland. The committee started work early in 2012 under the leadership of the day. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir and his proposals on February 20, 2014, along with the books individual councils. It was then my predecessor at work, at the highest. The marine and agricultural minister of Gunnar Sveinsson, shapes the national security policy on the basis of the proposal of the Parliamentary Committee and submits it in the council on November 17, last in the form of a synonym. One of my first works as Minister of Foreign Affairs was to participate in a subsequent discussion of national security policy and the joint opinion of the State Department and to attend the vote on April 13, when the Allied Council, without a prior agreement, adopted a new national security policy for Iceland, the first of the republics. The harmony that has developed about the process and the content of the new national security policy is particularly enjoyable and should be attributed to. It is, however, very important to establish an agreement over the main lines of security and protection at any given time. I hope that peace and cooperation will remain the main focus of the work and discussion ahead of this bill's contribution to the National Security Act, which has been done in good cooperation with the State Ministry and the Ministry of Ministers. A respectable president. One of the most important duties of the government is to secure the security of its citizens, and the government must shoulder that responsibility with constancy. The fear and risk factors of the day call for a complete approach in safety and protection and effective coordination of the respective organisations and institutions. By the bill I recommend here, the National Security Council is set up which ensures the active escort of national security policy adopted by the Allied Parliament and is based on active foreign policy, public security and protective cooperation with other countries. As such, I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. and the highest. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u110	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Minister of the Foreign Minister for excellent history of national security and its importance. But I would like to ask the highest. Minister on the confidential matter. It says here, by permission of the President: ▪ Under the National Security Council, closed doors are to be kept, and the confidence that prevails in its discovery. Similarly, about 7. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: Despite this, it is considered appropriate for meetings and other information from the Council to provide information laws, such as other comparable data. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister's limitations would then be limited when it comes to delivering them to the archives. I expect these data will be treated like all other important data in the administration. I'm asking if there'll be any particular restrictions on when you can open these files. What we find in the National Security Council is natural something very important for future historians and us who are trying to examine the politicians and leave the context behind. This is something important to keep in mind, this data, there needs to be more specific rules about how they're published later, since it doesn't mean ending this forever, I guess.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Really, the question is: Is there a need for a trusted country to find a National Security Council? We thought it best to speak specifically of our beliefs when it came to meeting the National Security Council, the nature of the case. Information has general information laws, but it can be assumed that their regulations can often apply. Of course, the request for information will be taken on a case-by-case basis as observed in the administrative board.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u112	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. I understand the highest. Ministers so that all written data will be placed in a standard document phase after they are released, although at the same time the state is confidential about them. It is true that it is important to have a confidential principle about what happens at meetings, but it also needs to be modest. I would like to make it perfectly clear that these data will be kept in mind for the generations that will take over to understand the context. Even if it is now, maybe after 100 to 110 years - I would say, for now, that is not the case. In both North America and in Europe, such data are made public half a century later simply to promote a particular transparency. It is important that it be made clear if not, since this is not clear enough as it is in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u113	A respectable president. Yeah, you're right. It's going into a traditional process. It is clear that these data will be kept under control. I agree with that, it's very important that this country's history of the future. As I also said before, there may be some of the terms under which it may be used. But it's going to have a routine, and it's very important to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u114	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the National Security Council. I have to say that I was disappointed when I saw the bill and how it happened that I don't feel that it reflects the wide view of national security revealed in a new national security policy for Iceland. I think the lyrics here are much more likely to take into account the national security bill as it came from the highest level. a foreign minister whose national security was defined as much tighter than then, at the end of the case, where there was a problem. The State Department made changes, all in favor of expanding the definition of national security. This is shown on page 22. 4 in comment on this bill, in III. a section on the main subject of the bill, that the concept of national security Council as reflected in the synonym that we agreed to be somewhat different from those in other parts of the North, as the environment of security and defenses is much different from that of Iceland, which is a military state. I wondered if that's why, because we're an armyless state, it's my natural sense that we have a different national security policy that's bigger. I think it's best in the 3rd and 4ths. This bill, which states that it is Prime Minister and Minister who handles foreign and national defences and Ministers who handle public security, as well as the Ministry of These Councils, State Marshals and National Guard, which are in charge of the Council. It is then stated that officials and other employees of recruitment and public institutions involved in the matter are obliged to attend a meeting of the Council if desired. That's why there's a small group, I feel, which is expected here to ship the National Security Council. There is no contact with experts, e.g. the health and the health issues of climate change, natural disasters, food and food security, and epidemics. In fact, I feel like I'm missing something into what's listed in 7th paragraph. Congress on national security policy for Iceland, which is just one of the major issues that expand this national security concept and is in complete agreement with what came from a Senate committee that had been operating under control. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, who was again built on work as a dog. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson had set in motion for his Ministry. So I'll keep on with what I feel is missing, that's 4. that it is the National Security Council to evaluate the state and outlook of safety and to deal with other national security issues. Other matters make me feel a little like a follow-up on the rest. This feels like something we do when we're in trouble. Foreign Affairs Committee, and hopefully in cooperation with the highest level. Secretary of State should consider that the National Security Council reflects more fully the national security policy we have agreed on. As I've described, I feel that the emphasis here is too much on what may be called security and defense, but other global threats, and especially social risk factors, will be like a post-partum article that has been written into the bill afterwards. I believe the committee should examine and correct and modify. However, a national security policy is, as shown in comments with the bill, a new report in Iceland. The same applies to the National Security Council. There has been no comparable policy before and before advice in Iceland so far. So it may not be surprising that these issues need to be discussed and viewed and adjusted. That is why I believe it is very necessary for the committee to take a good look. Then, in the days past, it became evident as it was. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir asked about. The bill that deals with confidential matters. Then again it can be said that it has something to do with the issue of security and protection that has been in a more military phase, if I can say that for that matter, the state will have to go before closed doors. I think there are just some things that have to do with the public and security parts that have nothing to do with being confidential and that are good to be open and discussed in the community. In fact, I'm not saying that I feel that confidentiality should rule over the other matters, security and defenses, because I think it also means that everything is on the table, and that the nation and members of Congress know everything that is happening there. I think there are several factors in this bill. A foreign press committee needs to be examined. There are things that need to be changed and added so that the National Security Council and this bill to the National Security Council will reflect the national security policy we've just approved for Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u115	President. It is a pleasure to have this national security bill submitted. As mentioned in the case of the highest. The minister of the preceding committee worked under the direction of the son of Ingimundarson Ingundar, who made a direct suggestion to establish a National Security Council. At the Senate Committee that I had the privilege of directing, we discussed some form of national security. We didn't exactly say that it would be set up, but it would certainly be worth thinking about doing so. One reason why I appreciated it is just that. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra, the Árnadóttir of Aarna, came in earlier, that we clearly define the national security concept. This was done in the work of the Parliamentary Committee, which was more widely defined than previously. At that time, we became very aware of the work we went through as much as the Ministry operates in towers, silos. The cylinder tower, wasn't it ever used? A connection would have to be made, so it seemed clear that it could be practical to have some form of regular meeting and that men learned to work together across the Ministry. I notice in terms of the bill that it explains how these things are being handled in other countries. I'm particularly going to take an example of Sweden. The chapter says, with the permission of a president: A few institutions in Sweden care for the matters that the National Security Council is aimed at. I think that's why in Sweden is this broad definition of national security, not of the definition we're so used to, which is primarily in defense and security related to a military threat or terrorism rather than any other threat that might confront society. It is natural, too, in this chapter that in most other countries where such advice is available, it is mainly the Ministry of Justice, State Department of State and the Ministry of Defense that is involved in it, as is the case in Britain. In these countries, in our policy of national security, there is much more fear of military threats or terrorism than we did. It also came out in these discussions, and when we were studying how the National Security Council worked, it was of great importance that such regular meetings were held, whether it was six months old or once a month or once a month. It would be vital that this was one of their routines, not that the council should be called together only when there was a threat. I want to make that point. That's right. That's right. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Yearsy earlier and I also noticed that in the National Security Council, Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Defense and Ministers who handle public security, as well as the Ministry of Justice, and then the State Marshal and Director of the National Relations. They say you can call others in, and then you can go to level 9. Said it should be agreed with the P.R. and Security Council. I quite understand the thought that it is not good to have too much advice, so that men may try this kind of bill to make the board too big at first, but it should also be thought of, as national security is defined here, and agree with that. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Eagledot, that I think it's a lot in the direction of an old man's thinking about how national security is defined. I'd like to mention that, right now, because the governor and director of the National Guard are in this council, that I was often thinking about it at the Senate Committee, and I think it's most important that when these institutions, the police, and especially the National Guard, are in foreign cooperation or foreign agreement, it's the most common thing with an army. If that's what it's gonna be, for example. We're here to help or something like that are military forces coming from other countries. That's the way it is. Therefore, I think it is extremely important that these institutions of our country, the National Guard and the State Police Department never forget that they are civil institutions. I think it's incredibly important that people never forget. The personnel of these institutions and those doing this type of work must never forget that they work for civil institutions. There's a huge difference. I don't know how to figure it out or what to do best, but this is what I feel needs to impress on those who are involved in this field. Otherwise, I don't have much more to say. I'm impressed that the bill is in motion and I'd like to commend the Minister for quickness, but I agree with what was presented. Árnadóttir So Steinunn, I think it's necessary to think about the structure of the security Council more on how the Council of Congress concluded and how it ended and what is stated in the National Security Committee's Committee of State Affairs, that we want to emphasize the broad definition of national security. It would certainly be, I think, for improvement and good if they could be introduced into this national security Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u116	Madam President. Now I can say with two final speakers, why. paritaprevir Made Bjarnadóttir, and before her Árnadóttir Thorjörður. When I've been considering this matter, I've stopped at a similar thought that I don't feel that the bill reflects well enough on the width that was being tried to be promoted by the Congress resolution of national security policy. One of her joys and her hard work, though somewhat backward, was gradually overcome by the change in approach to the national security problem. For years before that, we had spoken many things. I remember a lot of discussions back here on the national security issue and right back to the Cold War when nothing really was a security matter except to be in NATO, and to submit to U.S. military policy, and everything else matters nothing. You were sometimes trying to point out in the years what was happening in Iceland as a threat to the old Russians or something else that could be pointed out somewhere in the world; when it fell, it was all wrong in the Middle East or somewhere else and it was always as wary in the world in many terms. But it wasn't much of a big deal for little old Iceland. I just feel like there's a little bit of a turn-in in the old-fashioned way by keeping this national security Council very narrow, very hard on everything that's going to happen, and I'll be better at it. Let's go over the experience. Both could do so far back, but it could be done in the last six or eight years. What is the main threat to human stability and security in Iceland? Is it not a economic crisis that has long been the most dangerous case in this nation, and are we still being affected by various forms of soup? Although the economic system is going well and surprisingly well, we still have scars, and there is still a lot of instability and social swells, political swells, and much of the traumas we experienced when the economy almost collapsed into our heads, such as a gambling city and the ultimate uncertainty of the nation's future. Almost every Iceland was in anguish, with no idea of what would happen to its own interests and their own family, and so on. I have, unfortunately, in view of experience, and the earlier history of economic instability and mismanagement in Iceland's economy, I would love to say that it may now have been Iceland's most dangerous experience. However, I will mention what is now close to us, which, of course, is the wonderful gift, but at the same time often difficult nature we live in. The story is so that almost continuously there were major events in that area that a little shook up in things. Of the financial collapse, government during the last term had to deal with volcanic eruptions in the 2010 Eyjafjörður and the following year, if I recall the correct dates, volcanic eruptions in the Grand Canyon; both of these events were large, with significant consequences, some of them globally, otherwise serious consequences from local, ashorce, and all of that. In September 2012, we received a storm of unusual severe storms, such as the foul weather that caused much money, huge damage to power lines, and a huge amount of national equipment. It was not long ago that she began to remind herself, and there was considerable anguish in men for months about what would happen if there were big eruptions under the glacier. Whole areas of the northeast corner were cut off; nearly all the waters of the glacier were in the mountains. Then the clay, not under the glacier, was blessed, one of Iceland's largest eruptions in the second century C.E. That's how I could keep talking. This is what we've been dealing with. These are the big things that have shaken us when it comes to security. Not a military threat, don't worry about someone attacking us. Never. We have blessedly avoided such things and terrorism; and 7, 9, 13, hopefully it will continue. Although men have been concerned about organized crime and criminal systems, there has been a measure of success in defending the country from its dissatisfaction. But, military threat, it's distant, I think, to those who are going through it like this. I think people sleep a lot more slowly over such speculations. Even if there's something wrong with the Baltic, NATO and the Russians and so on, wouldn't it be more a question of where they're next? Will it be an old Kate or a baboon? What major event might we face in the future? There's not been any severe earthquakes far back in the year 2000 and again, etc. There is evidence to suggest that the Smokeman is on its way to becoming, and there we know that we could face some big event, whether they will be in our lifetime, or after 50 years or 200 years, there is no way to say. But it doesn't take a complicated argument to show that if again a great deal of land fires on the Smokebones Peninsula or with it, there could be a huge event for an Icelandic nation, such as live in the country and international flies and other such. So I find it shocking that we do not have this wide approach to safety. I think national security advice and law on that need and must reflect it. I agree with the viewpoints here on it. There's a lot of ways to cover all the dimensions in which it needs to be covered. I've had something twice in the course of the first Iraq war, or what it was now, and again and sat on meetings in a government where men went over what would go over and check Iceland so we'd do what we could to be as well prepared as possible. There were no arms purchases or such things, Mrs. President, that were discussed. No, it was the question of whether there were enough oil supplies in the country. It was a matter of how food would be provided and how the country's food security would be guaranteed. Following the collapse of the economy, it stood out from each individual: Well, thank God for our agriculture and our fish. So we have something to eat. In fact, let's even grow potatoes and be able to save ourselves for a month, even if it's hard to walk. That's the way it is. With the composition of the National Security Council, all I want to do is speak human language. I understand completely, and it's normal in itself, that the ministers who take the most important lawsuits are there. At the same time, however, there is a small danger that this will turn out to be such a piece of silk. There'll be some fine ministers and fine government managers, the director of the D.A.L.S. and State Marshals and Dot; it's a bit of silk caps, and it's pointing a little into the context we've been here. Where's the width? Can't we do better in this regard? Yes, the Council can call out more ministers, and then the head of the Ministry brings, the officials and other staff hires and public institutions and partner members, etc. One thing attracts my attention, and it's that the Council has nothing to do with this. Yes, yes, it's the law of reporting. Isn't that an annual report or something like that? And suggestions to change national security policy. This needs to be warned by the General because it is where it is designed. And it says that the National Security Council should inform the General State Department of State on the issues likely to affect national security policy and its implementation. There is no need for this in itself, for there is a wealth of information on governments whether it is for the Allied Foreign Affairs Committee or elsewhere, under law. I encourage the committee to see if these topics cannot be met only. Now I realize that perhaps some of the thought is because the General Assembly conventions and approvals of national security policy are natural that such a bond is there to monitor, implement it, and make sure that it is done according to General Decisions. Of course, this does not rule out that the Council itself is somehow directly involved in this. It's a little strange when you start thinking that the nation's highest agency has absolutely no connection to national security advice. I give this idea here seriously: How about the president and vice president of the State Department as a member of the National Security Council? So what? And then, assuming that one belong to the greater part and one to the lesser part? Whether they are engaged to their duties as foreign committees, this 7 would come. Gr., on the special confidential matter, that's what I'm talking about. Thus, the National Security Council would be directly linked to this important member committee of the General Assembly, who serves here in our case as both a general political foreign committee and also in itself as a security committee if we can call it so because we have nothing of such a double or a triple system as it is in the nations with an army, etc. This would be the representatives who were there with a direct involvement in the work of the council. I don't give anything to it that there's a problem, though there's two more in meetings. They don't need to bring the writers with them like the Ministry Ministers. I can mention a third possibility that I feel is very close to. It is that the president, or president, or governor, of the country's survival board has a place in national security. What is it that we rely almost always on when we have problems? It's the rescue forces. Shouldn't we expect the National Security Council to be a representative of the National Security Council, expected to be president or manager, sweet there? [[Up front.]] Why not? Well, I guess it cut a little more channels, huh? If people are starting to worry about something that needs concern. I would also feel that certain things could be prepared, so that there were demands, how, and in what way a surgeon's office after an incident was linked to the National Security Council. It would just be built up that once people were worried about epidemics or anything like that, it would automatically be that someone might come with his minister. I feel that this article is so much better, and I think it should make changes. Finally, Madam President, I'd like to say we're walking into a new area and it's exciting, and that's good. I am in the brain very pleased with the manner of these issues, the shape of national security policy. Although we do not like everything there, of course, there is something very good. This broad approach to the security concept, and other attitudes in that subject, while the old cold, is very positive, and it is good for us to have laws and a regular order on who is responsible for national security. That's very similar to the law that we've completed on financial standards. Because we have learned from experience that it is impossible to have a responsibility that is vague and that each one will point to another when some such situation arises. It must be very clear where the responsibility is, where there are authority limits, and who have their shoulders doing their best in these matters. That's why I'm also fine with the National Security Council on the basis of national security policy. But let us try to be careful as we can, and of course, let us reach a solid agreement on this. Another such effort should be made to achieve as wide and broad a solid solidarity as possible on such laws that are likely to exist in some future. It was relatively successful with national security policy, and we need to make sure that the same is true of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u117	Madam President. I must now say that I am in places similar to those speakers who have so far expressed themselves about these matters from among the unknown. Senators. To be honest, I was a little surprised to see the bill on Article 3. and the order of the National Security Council suggesting that Prime Minister, Minister of State and Minister of State sit in the council, as well as the Ministry of the Council, and have the governor and the director of the D.C. government sit in the council. I don't feel that it reflects the approach attempted to work at the Senate Committee, which I came to, in fact, slightly to the end of the work that was supposed to improve the security concept. I feel that this bill, however, is a pattern of past ideas about security. I think it is, by the permission of the President, a blast from the past, so I'll end up in English, which, of course, is forbidden, because I think it reflects an old-fashioned view of the national security concept. I also feel that the bill was built before the General concluded treatment for national security policy because it changed in the council. That's exactly what she was criticized when she was handed over by a local officer. Minister of State that it did not reflect the wide view of security. I would like to remind you that in the report of the Council of Parliaments submitted, there were three categories of threats in Iceland. The first category is an environmental threat or an accident because of the rise in northern activities, the second category being Internet threats or damage to the interior areas, and the third category is natural disasters. I wonder why, for example. The Environment Minister will not sit in this or any experts in the field of nature and then, of course, climate issues that will likely have a major impact on the threats we face. I agree with what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, mentioned earlier, "Wouldn't it be right for Landsbourg to come up with these matters? " Farming is primarily the person who responds to natural disasters or other factors. Then she'll be there. How exactly do we visualize the Internet threat in this regard? I'd like to give it up in Number 2, we have organized crime. Certainly the Marshal's here. Economic and economic security, which, of course, is difficult to define. But if we do mean something by expanding our security concept, where is it? Is it not reasonable for the surgeon to agree with the groups listed in Group two, health security, epidemics and food safety? A third group is the threat of war and terrorism. I'd also like to state that I didn't think it was stupid. The question is, Where will we be assigned? Where should we assign someone? We may not be able to have 20 national security advice. I totally understand the highest point of view. Minister on this matter. Is it normal for the National Security Council to be primarily appointed political agents, i.e. legislators and possibly members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, such as the case. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon mentioned, but can call out experts, whether it's Marshal, Landsbourg, Post and Communications, in case of Internet security? The Weather Service, in case of weather? Would it not be more reasonable to assume that the National Security Council was not appointed to the experts than democratically elected representatives who will see to it that policy is being followed and can call on experts? It has been tried, and it was done on the Foreign Affairs to ensure that as far as the greatest agreement and agreement for a new national security policy is concerned and how we want to see it develop. Everyone in the council will be there, but I don't think the broad views should reflect the course. If we want to avoid ten men's counsel or seven men's advice - I don't know how such advice is planned elsewhere, and I trusted in it. At work, I wondered, " Is it normal that there is a small body of advice available to the General and to the government that can bring with me some kind of consulting committee where there are experts involved in these issues? ' The proposal that was eventually accepted is e.g. Talk about online security. There is talk of financial and economic security that is in harmony with what was discussed. And now I'm gonna imagine we're in September 2008 and the National Security Council is set up, you know, I can see that. So it's convened? What would the National Security Council need? There would be no need for the D.A.M.S.A. in the September 2008 disaster, but it would probably need the bank manager and the SEC to figure out how to deal with the disaster that was undeniably happening here, for it would be like the highest level. A minister well knows his former duties, but we actually saw a lack of food in the country, a lack of medicine, and a financial and economic problem. Then I wondered, " Is it not normal for us there to receive democratic compound advice that will ensure the presence of government and government opposition, but, of course, the minister of the most dyspnoeasy? ' It may be that this is the ministers mentioned, but they can call on their own experts. The other day some kind of Internet attack on a web site hired. Is it not reasonable, then, that in this case the National Security Council can call the Marshal and the Post and Communications Department? I wonder, trying to make sure that we have clean lines and that a council order reflects the mind behind the policy, and the conclusion that was eventually adopted at the council, i.e. The wide security concept. I think it's very important that we make progress in these matters, that we get out of old security ideas and believe that there's a number of ways in which there are security threats and not always predictable. So I take back the idea of returning in time, I guess not a human would have thought in 2007 that it was most likely that financial and economic problems would strike the country. Instead, it is important that we be there with a broad perspective, for what happens is not always predictable. This is what I wanted to say on this matter, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u118	V.E.G. President. I now pronounce my pleasure in the fact that this bill has been released. It is that once a no - matter - yet - was removed, there was a void in these matters. Actually, I hope to say that the order of the National Security Council is a warrant that we take our own security case and put it under one hat, not many, as we've had in the past few years, since the Department of Defense. However, there is one point. It says here that the principle of policy priority, i.e. National security policy, is the situation of Iceland as a minority of island nations that have neither authority nor will to control military and national security and protect them by active cooperation with other countries and international institutions it also says that policy should address global, social and military risk factors and include active foreign policy and public security and national security services as well as national security concerns that could cause city, social systems and infrastructure damage, whether of internal or external threats and/or natural disasters. The role of the National Security Council also says that the role of the National Security Council needs to evaluate the state and outlook on safety and security in a regular way, monitor national security, reflect the broad vision of national security that is reflected in the policy and represent its revision at least every five years. I like it all, but I still want to make a comment at Article 3. The bill. It says, by permission of the president: In the National Security Council, as well as Prime Minister, Minister of State and Defense and Minister of Public Safety, as well as the Ministry of the Council of the Council. At the same time, the governor and director of the National Guard will be in charge. There's one man missing, and there's the customs manager, because the national customs guard is on the border, and the next thing you know is that, whether there's terrorism or any other threat, even threats from diseases abroad that can be brought here, customs security will play a role. Hence, it is absolutely necessary that the customs manager be in the National Security Council in order to appoint his men in the country if necessary. That's why I'm pointing to the highest. Minister and Commission that will accept the addition of the customs manager to Article 3. The bill so I don't have to make a change in the direction I'm going to do it. I believe it is quite conclusive that the border customs work is large, and it is important to our safety that there is a total need for the customs service to arrive here. Other than that, I'll repeat, I'm glad this bill has been released. I am glad that these matters are to be explained and not as vague as they have been for a few years. I hope this is a sign that within some time we will see a national security agency that will become a coordination agency and give the premise that we can be safe in our good country. Other than that, I reiterate my joy over the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u119	A respectable president. Thank you for your advance comments. It is vital that the cooperation continues to be good to the body of Congress and to the State Department. I take to heart the comments made by members of the Parliament that they do not consider the security concept to be sufficient. I'm gonna take a closer look. Similarly, I find the suggestions of the National Security Council very interesting, i.e. Section 3. I think we need to take a closer look. I also think of the discussions that take place on the approach, whether they are democratic elected representatives, and they call to themselves experts, as well as the broad approach they gave to the financial threat and to whom they should call the table. I appreciate them, and I'll take a closer look.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u120	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis of the confirmation of an additional agreement with the Northern Atlantic Convention on the membership of the Montenegro. The Parliament's decree of this agreement is requested by the Generals to validate an additional agreement made at the Northern Atlantic Convention since 1949 and to the national republic of Montenegro on the contract. On May 19 of the past, foreign ministers signed 28 states of the Atlantic Community in addition to a covenant with the Community's establishment. It was indeed a great time and a joy to share in it. Two. The addition of the contract requires that it be obtained only if all members of the North Atlantic Convention have reported their confirmation of it. On May 21, 2006, Montenegro declared independence, and Iceland was the first country to officially acknowledge its independence on June 8, 2006. It would be a great deal, and it would be a strong message in leading up to the next summit of the Atlantic Community in July that Iceland would also be with first states to complete the validation due to the introduction of Montenegro into the coalition. A respectable president. Iceland has always been one of the countries that have stressed that the alliance is open to those democracies who seek entrance provided they meet the political, economic, and military conditions set up by filing the ACs. After the Cold War and the fall of the Soviet Union, many countries that were once under control or in their territories have sought Western cooperation and have sought involvement in the Atlantic Union, the European Union, and other international institutions. Iceland has over the past decades confirmed and validated a number of contracts for enlargement of the Community. At the Synod of 1949, only four kingdoms were added to that group by the 12 alliance. During the following decade, the number of countries increased by 12 more, becoming the Montenegro of the 29th Union. A key point is that each country has its own right to resolve and can guarantee its own interests. It also includes that countries must have the right to choose allies and international groups that they choose to participate in the upcoming conditions. The external influence and pressure of that material should not interfere with the decision - making rights of the State or influence whether the door of a multinational organization really opens. Governments, and especially smaller kingdoms, must have a full understanding of the need for this. Madam President. The enlargement of the coalition after the Cold War has been completed in three cycles. In 1994, cooperation and partnerships were opened to the Community by attacking the assessment on terms and objectives of growth. Furthermore, negotiations with governments in a number of countries expressed interest in joining the coalition. A so-called partnership for peace, or Partnership for Peace in English, with a number of collaborators, and to prepare new states to be part of the Community, a so-called Action Programme, by permission of Presidents, the Simulship Action Plan, the prerequisite for such memberships. An action plan is a process of reform in nature, and in each state it aims to help countries who are planning to apply for involvement in the Atlantic Community. The countries must meet certain conditions, political, economic, but also conditions from a safety point of view before involvement may occur. Montenegro has had such a strategy since 2009. On the part of the Community, the aim of enlargement has always been stressed to increase Europe's stability and safety and, at the same time, strengthen the democratic development that has taken place within the relevant applicant state. In 1997, the first three European countries in the East, Poland, Czech Republic, and Hungary were invited to a summit in Madrid. At the 2002 summit in Prague, seven other countries were involved. The countries, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, and Slovenia became formal members in 2004. The final expansion took place in 2009 when Albania and Croatia were added. During the December 2015 foreign minister meeting of the Atlantic Alliance, it was decided to invite the Montenegro into the coalition, making it certain that the State had met the conditions of the strategy. Again, the signing of the Annex to the Founding of the Atlantic Community was held at Brussels Community headquarters earlier this month. Montenegro will themselves pay the cost of its own protection to coordinate the Community defense system and it is not expected that the existing Member States will need to change their own protection programmes or extra protection expenses when adding to a new Member State. A respectable president. It is my hope that this case will come as soon as possible to the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee and that we can speed up the confirmation process on our part. The oral requirements have been met. My evaluation and other foreign ministers are at the short time signed on the contract involving the entrance of the Montenegro and are an important step to support safety in Europe and stability on the Balkan Peninsula. That message we'd like to have in the banks for Iceland at the summit of the Warsaw Atlantic Union for the summer. I propose, a respectable president, that the matter be referred to a second discussion and why. The Foreign Affairs Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u121	Madam President. I find it necessary to point out that the Allied Council is at least one group against Iceland's involvement in the Atlantic Community and I think it's right to remind myself that the left movement has a green supply since its beginning that Iceland should be out of military alliances, because that's what NATO is, or the Atlantic Community, it's not a cultural club, as you might sometimes think of the debate we have on these issues, but a military alliance. Then there are some questions about how the Atlantic Community has developed in recent years with changing the landscape into international politics, where the coalition has really changed and developed, but surely it has not gathered its activities. It was interesting to see that when the Cold War formally ended in the political arena, the Atlantic Union began to find new assignments that led to great interest. It is thought - provoking as we consider the world's conflict areas and what interests are often of great interest - it is often a source of great interest, both the arms makers and other stakeholders involved - that, unfortunately, it has often been the case, whether the Atlantic alliance has made it, or some individual member of the Union as it has also taken place, that there has been a conflict without any other means of having been fully experienced, and without the fact that political solutions have been fully tested, just because the interests of this machine remain so intense. We were discussing national security and national security policy, and one of the differences in the committee that discussed the matter was the law that came into my policy, making it impossible for me to do anything but describe a measure of satisfaction in it, i.e. The regulations of the U.S. U.A.'s nuclear peace description. It was also noted that representatives of the Independence Committee specifically undertook the Commission's proposal that Iceland's national, national, and national clearances for nuclear weapons, where this would actually be inexplicable and would violate international commitments committed by Iceland, including the U.S.A. with us at the Atlantic Alliance. You see, it is a fact that although various international institutions have used a nuclear ban - I think that each one of us as an individual is against them and that no one in this chamber can say otherwise than that he is opposed to the use of nuclear weapons after we know the consequences of the limited use that has been tested - it is still that the Atlantic Union has run an effective policy of establishing nuclear weapons that can be disputed. I also wondered what effect, such as. Our involvement in the Atlantic Community has the proposal now under consideration of the Allied Foreign Affairs Committee, and I am the first messenger to, in effect, find that Iceland is internationally active against so - called self - controlled war machines, i.e. In fact, machines equipped with artificial intelligence do not need any human access to their use. Those who observe this international discussion know that this is beyond the corner of artificial intelligence. It is worth considering that the world's leading scientists in the world's field of artificial intelligence have encouraged the world's nations to resort to bans on such weapons. How does our involvement in the Atlantic Community affect our position in this regard? Yet, I am absolutely certain that each member of the council has an abomination to these weapons and does not want to see this. The fact is, each of us with our personal opinions, feelings, and all of them may be at a loss when it comes to such an alliance that drives on these powerful interests. I believe Iceland could have a much greater impact outside the Community, considering that the security concept has been changed from the past. Thus, we should work, focusing on our work within the United Nations and on other international organizations, which are not based on military views. For this reason, because this is a matter of expanding the alliance by contributing to the country of Montenegro, I find it necessary to remind myself that this is not just some useful club, it is an alliance that is based on the enormous design of weapons systems in its territory that has actually grown considerably after the Cold War has ended, which is based on the great interests of those who produce these weapons, and we can reflect on the results. It is always difficult, since we are, of course, tied to history and how it has evolved, and it is difficult to put the story into an approach, but I think that often we can find examples in the story where there could have been a way of avoiding a conflict that unfortunately has been attacked because the voices have been stronger than those who spoke for the political solutions. How sad for those who have fallen victim to these conflicts! Sad to say, in later conflicts, the number of victims of such conflicts is growing among civilians, women, and children. Such conflicts may be different from the conflicts we have seen in the past. How sad it is to see that the Atlantic Union has been apologizing for mistakes, as it has been said, when even whole weddings have been blown up by mistake! We have to think about how we would feel if such parties were blown up here in the Hammer, in the Grafarvogur, or on the Seltananes, or where it would be, then an apology for a mistake would be made. This is sad to be the case when we look at conflicts in recent years, a growing proportion of civilians who fall despite the agreed Geneva Convention. It must raise questions from each of us whether we really believe that this alliance is what serves the best interests of Iceland, the best of mankind's interests, because that is, of course, that we cannot look at it just out of the narrow national interest. This is important to bear in mind when discussing this matter, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u122	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to fix wood and wood products. On May 3, 2013, the joint EEA Commission agreed to enter the EEA Convention three types of timber and timber market in the EEA. This is Regulation No. 995/2010, about the duties of the operators who launch timbers and timber products, called timber regulations, as well as the implementation of two other regulations. On February 27, 2015, the General agreed on a resolution of the confirmed decision made by the Joint EEA Committee. With that conclusion, governmental warnings were removed. In order to implement the regulations in this country, the bill will need to be corrected and submitted on grounds of this. If the bill is legal, the plan is to introduce the above EU types on the basis of the law in the form of a Regulation. The demand for wood and timber products has increased worldwide, and illegal forests are widespread problems. Forests produce considerable environmental benefits that are important to nurture, which is the benefits of life - sustaining mankind. The problem of an illegal woodcut is urgent, but it poses a significant danger to the forests of the world. An illegal forestry is causing deforestation and deforestation of forests, which have been shown to result in 20% of the world's emissions of carbon dioxide, biodiversity, deforestation of sustainable forestry and development, eroding soil erosions, and can contribute to climate change and flood. Targets for the induction of the timber policy are complex. First, it is directed against illegal woodcuts by banning the introduction of timbers and timbers of illegal wood cut. Second, its aim is to promote sustainable forest management, and third, it is important environmental matters, but it is expected that the implementation of the Regulation will contribute to reducing climate change in an cost-effective manner. The bill was developed in collaboration with the Agency, but in the bill the Agency is expected to monitor the implementation of the law and the regulations to be followed. In addition, for the sake of their role, government wooding and toll managers were consulted. When the bill was built, it was put in an open tab on the Ministry's website. I will now review the main subject of the bill. The aim of the law's sentence is to prevent trade through illegally cut wood and to put timbers of illegal wood on the market in this country. The range of terms of the bill includes import, marketing and use of timber and timber products as defined in the timber system and related types. The bill is not applicable to the commercial sales of the inside squares and timber products already marketed. The bill holds the duties of the organisations who market timbers and timber products for the first time in the internal market here. They need to develop a so - called system of authenticity, a system that includes measures and procedures to minimize the risk of timber from an illegal forestry and from such timbers to be placed in the internal market of the European Economic Area. It is expected that so - called monitoring agencies will offer up the system of the dependencies. As I entered the past, the Agency will monitor the actions of the law and the regulations that will be followed. For this purpose the Agency will include use official market surveillance to verify that the products placed for the first time in the internal market of the European Economic Areas here meet the requirements of the law, in other words, that the timber and timber products on the market in this country do not come from an illegal woodcut. State forestry will also have a role under the law. The government's forestry is the services of the Environment and Resource Ministry involved in the country's forestry. It is therefore assumed to be on the basis of the expertise it has in controlling, in addition to investigating and performing tests of wood and timber products taken from the Civilian Institute. Thetoll manager's role is also defined in the bill. It is to provide the Agency with information on the import of wood and timber products that fall under the bill. V.C.E. chapter of the bill. dealt with forced manuals. At official marketing monitoring, it is necessary that the organisation that monitors have the necessary measures to enable this monitoring. Therefore, the bill estimates that the Agency has the authority to examine wood products from merchants and operators, take samples from wood or timbers for research, and ask for all necessary information and information. In addition, the Agency can resort to measures such as reminders, reforms, daytimes, and induction. A respectable president. I've traced the main ingredient of this bill and suggested that it be at 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u123	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I have some questions about the effects of this induction and if necessary. First, what I feel is not clear enough at first sight. It was noted that in the context of the case and in agreement with the stakeholders, there were comments that were related to the fact that this was a burdensome provision for the operator and that the result was to respond in a way that operators could be allowed to use a surveillance system or procedure they already use in the implementation of the law and conform to the requirements of the system of authenticity. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how this adaptation will be carried out and who will then evaluate if the system complies with the proposed requirements. Is it the Office of Manners, or is it the Ministry, or who else is doing that? Is it then required in due time that the employer takes up the system anyway, or if the system is in line with the framework of the first assessment?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u124	A respectable president. I appreciate the questions. Of course, it is with law and regulations that it can often be burdensome for business. There are natural salesmen with timber and timber products. As in many other lands, proof of origin is needed, from where does the product come? This is something that we actually see in most fields, people want to know. As discussed in the talk, by their professional knowledge of the wood, it is the development of the Kingdom. The Office of Human Rights is the post-impliatory agency of the Ministry. To answer that question, it may primarily be that there is a witness at a court of witness, whether there is a legal product being sold.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u125	A respectable president. I thank the Minister. My question may not have been clear enough, but I asked not about the surveillance of the product as such but about whether a operator would be allowed to use a surveillance system and procedure that he is already using in the implementation of the law and how it will be performed, i.e. Whether or not the systems of the host are adequate. I think it matters, especially in view of the fact that the rule of action is burdensome in the sense that students have used in their comments. Also, I would like to ask the minister if the cost of this induction has been determined or might be impacted on consumers. Is that in some way possible? Finally, I'd like to ask, because I don't have it on the bill's impact, what the scope of this project is in the administrative department. Is there any number, or number of employees, or what it is now because it is not, and perhaps in the first place, in terms of an act of an act of an act that plays a key role, and in the case of individual projects, the government's role as counseller and investigator? So these three questions are questions. First, the surveillance system and the procedure rules, whether they agree with the demands, who values it, the cost of consumers, and third, the pressures of going to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u126	A respectable president. I have to be allowed to get a smile on my face because you wouldn't have thought we were dealing with a very important problem that would be illegal. But it is the import of the product at any given moment. A senator is more concerned than directly with the problem here, we're naturally bringing in quite a bit of wood. I have to admit that it has not been valued how much this will cost for these institutions. It was not thought to be burdensome. But it was quite right. A senator noted that this may be the case, and then we need to act naturally. If there is any doubt that selling product here is legal, that would be a normal requirement, as stated on page 18. 10 That the operator looks to the monitoring room to determine if the system is adequate or not. That's how this is supposed to work. I know I may not have completely answered, but this is the situation. We have rather thought that this will not be very burdensome for these institutions. But if that becomes evident, it certainly needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u127	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in fish control law, with subsequent changes, eutrophication and extension of preliminary regulations. This bill for the legal process contributes to the employment committee. 1st par. It reads: After 10. The law comes with a new arrangement of 10. a, as follows: A building agency has the provision of a source determined by a minister at 5 mg. Section 8. to support infrastructure in serious and acute problems as a result of subtraction. A building agency can negotiate with fish or farming companies up to six years of age. The Agency shall agree with the local community administration before signing the contract. There should be records in cod, exaggeration, catfish and ewes in proportion to the total allowed resources of these species. These permissions are based on cod values and should be withdrawn in the same manner as in the 3 mgr. Section 8. That's the law, sr. 5 mg. The same articles. The secretary is allowed, under the guidance of the Based Agency, to set further instructions on the implementation of this law in the Regulation, such as the content of the contract, conditions and duration. Then it's 2nd. par.Unable to connect to POP provisional regulations V, XIII, XIV and XV in the law fall away. Section 3. The following changes will be made to temporary VIIs in the law: a. Instead of the annual ◯2014/2015 in the 1st sentence. 1st mg, sr. 10th par. track No. 48/2014, arrives: 2016/2017. b. Instead of the words "yet " in the 2nd Synonym. 1st mg, sr. 2.g. track No. 74/2010, arrives: month. Section 4. Instead of the annual ▪2015/2016 in 1 mgr. provision for temporary VIII in the Act is: 2016/2017. Section 5. This law has already been valid. This bill suggests a number of adjustments to regulations that are temporary in the law. In 1st. is suggested to be registered as Article 10. a Act of the Labour Based Agency's Directive for the fractured settlement currently under the provisional principle XIII. At the same time, the provisional principle is suggested to be removed. Experience has shown that such support is needed for the communities that are classified as fragile settlements, and yet these special provisions have yielded good results. It is also suggested that three other temporary regulations in the law be removed where no longer apply, i.e. provision for temporary V, XIV, XV. In the 3rd. The bill is suggested to be extended to the end of the next fishing year's access to provisional Ministers for temporary VII to interfere with the introduction of resources or other arrangements from rural communities in case of a substantial portion of the labour rights of the local community. The wording of that law is also suggested. Finally, the factor VIII is proposed as temporary provision for a secretary's authorization to plan the calls for herring, i.e. For a summer's encore and a Norwegian-islen fjord, against payment, shall be extended until the next year of fishing. That's what this bill looks like. There may not be much fish on this bone, but there is much doubt that a building agency is given this opportunity to obtain additional resources for provision. Of course, this is very important. We are familiar with the specific graffiti of the Agency's specific building initiatives, which have been used by the Agency for the provision of fractured settlements. It has been very successful, and it shows that such measures can help communities who face employment problems because sources have been sold away, and it is difficult to maintain employment, fish, and fishing roads. It is a project that has been completed and has started during the last terms and that, in view of experience, it has been very valuable, and it has been shown to be successful. But it is also necessary for them to have sufficient resources for running with a graffiti when some community is in trouble, so that they can be given the resources that I believe are due a great deal, as it has been demonstrated. Of course, it is also serious that such measures need to be taken. Then we can ask ourselves, " What are the consequences of the eating system and the past? ' Building laws that were once in the blues and people moved to sea and country are in a position to search for government and graffiti that has had the task of trying to support these settlements so that they can become self-sufficient and sustainable. That's what's being done here, but you would've wanted nothing to take on such action, that things were like this, and control by fishing would be so that the settlements could be built on their own and unsatisfactory if you were to take fish out of the sea and work in the country, and things would work for you naturally. The governments that have been in charge for the last 20 years support the cruel saying system in which we live and the vengeful exorbitant expansion that has taken over the settlements and has led to this tremendous problem that many of them face and to the migration of people from their communities. Based on a structure agency, they know all the figures, how much decrease has occurred in 20 years in many coastal areas. I've always said that there should be a social assessment of the seafront, why they're in the difficult situation they're in. It is not only possible to explain this because evolution is in order to reach the capital area and is not interested in living in these places because if the foundation and infrastructure are in order and what the settlements have built through the times, the fishing route, if they are able to grow and prosper in peace, there are a wide variety of activities built up in the local law. Young people who go and pursue education are then interested in returning to their community and using their education to build a good society. But then the communities have to enjoy the resources that are at the front door, as we say, and they have the chance to use the right, the indigenous rights they've built up around them, but they don't have to deal with anyone who has the means to get seawater. Things have evolved, so that since the cooling system has been set up, there are few hands that have been gathered. There are few people who can dominate and share in them. Then there are the small ones who have become involved in this competition that are trying to save themselves and rent from other sources of resources at high prices. Often there is nothing in harmony with the price the sailor receives when he sells his earnings, either on the market or in the local fishing business. I've been talking about it with other guys. Councilmen building a powerful tenet, where those who want to build and practice seamanry have the freedom to go to the market and then have some natural prices. It is quite natural and easy to say that paying rent to society is a personal thing, rather than paying large - scale access to the fishing grounds today. People have spoken in various ways. From what I understand, Hogarths are talking today about offering windposts. I haven't spoken to you about offering all the resources in Iceland, because then we're going to take full advantage of the market laws. I believe the fishing system also needs to be watched by social views. The wide and wide structure of the land that has much to do with fishing is not equipped to compete with powerful people who have much access to money and who can have the advantage of offering and sweeping resources. I fear, therefore, the thought that all power would be put into an auction market, as I have heard from many political parties, last from a new political party that is going to bring back the people of the land. I don't know if this restoration is necessarily going to be a restoration for the country, but he's coming back, this new political party, he's talking about all the resources going to the auction, so the price is coming up on that market. I believe that smaller coastal areas and smaller projections and subsidies are unregistered with unregistered markets, where all resources go to auction. But taking some of that variable into other fishing operations, I think it's a good idea, and I've talked about it. The bill for changing the law on the management of fish that was available during the last term expected that, along with the leave of the suppliers who now have a catchmark, allowing for a longer period of conditions, and that it would not be an unregistered supply, would be offered by the State's half of the estates that would grow through the years and take into account the increase in labour in Iceland centres, so that the increase would be part of this pot as well as the provision for those who would have allowed them to live many years, who would be revised after a certain time. This big case has been bitten here for years and it seems who it is. It can be said that once such a system has been around them for a long time, it is extremely difficult to cope with it. The economic ties are so great, and the whole of the cross in the back and through into banking institutions and to the largest fishing industry on the market. Everybody's scared to death of doing something about it. The largest and most powerful fishing companies have access to the country's common resource and a strong position in commercial development in certain areas came very strong here from the last term, as we know, and protested that democratic elected agents will change the fish - fishing system. Although I think that not everyone was so delighted to be embalmed in the East to protest changes in the fishing industry and fishing costs, the officials of the country gathered people from their ranks. But there was a very severe reaction when a fishing system was to be moved and a resource use was laid. My backs were raised by people who wanted to tell me that the financial system was with them and the big structures. I'm not saying that men were threatened, but it happened that the great wave that opposed all changes from a powerful source caused changes in the fishing system at the end of the last term. The members of the council, the less part of the Council, the more important people, helped and stopped the process of making the changes I think would have made a great improvement. True, they would have been compromises, but if they had been approved, there would have been countless views. Of course, no one achieves his own perfectly, no matter what, and if something is to continue for a long time, compromise is needed. I believe that in that bill, there was a great opportunity for innovation and a chance for new recruits and opening up that those who are small today and struggle to keep their plans going and renting others would have had the opportunity to rent out of the country's tenets and build up and make themselves better. The bioavailability of the fishing road would have been much more than it is today. It is largely young men who pursue seawater, although this is an exception. Now young men are going to the machine and the Autopilot School and educate themselves to move out and control big boats and ships. They go to various lengths of ship management and gain different rights depending on their size, starting with the rights of a beach fishing boat up to 40 feet [12 m] and up to an international ship. However, the young people who are thus educated and are interested in living in beautiful coastal areas around the country do not have the same potential as those who had 203/430 years ago to come into their own home and build a factory. You don't have the money to start buying permanent relics so that they can run on a smaller boat. This is not the case with a permanent kilogram of cod at about 2,500 to 3000 cc. Of course, none of us can. However, the opening of the system as it is today was, and it is the current coastal fishing. I believe that we need to make the most of it by making adjustments based on the 2009 experience. There is seven years of experience in this system, and much has gone very well, and much can be done in the light of experience. However, the last government and us, who were in more part during the last term, were able to open up a dwindling system that is a coastal fishing system. It has been an enormous source of pleasure, and many new ones have come in and had the potential to build themselves up, although, of course, there would have to be more easy access to renting markets at an affordable price. Today, the social part of the fishing system is 5.3%, which I believe is far too small. We on the pro board have months, well over the second year, discussing this part back and forth. The present government has no intention of increasing the object that would have to be much higher than the same system to promote innovation and open up access to the article. There are countless reports and data and other developments around this case, and the crop is that it is to present the case in large part as unchanged, apart from the growth of a special centre of the Agency, which is listed in the bill I have recommended in the case of a professional health care committee. We know that the present government was asking for changes in the fishing system, and you weren't too optimistic as to how these changes would benefit at least. the opinions of the changes I'm facing and the left green and more in this community. But that bill didn't go beyond the board of directors, and I understand it so that the Independence Party could not have agreed to the bill that then the seabed and agricultural Ingi jóhannsson Igjonsson introduced a group of colleagues. So there's a case. It was packed up, and maybe it's good because I'm afraid it would have been of no use to the weak seas around the country or to the new things to be, and to open up the system and the employment freedoms needed in this article. The article also needs to pay a fair resource, using proben according to the circumstances. I don't think that small and medium-sized expedients pay equal to the largest of them which are involved in crushing profits, they can certainly pay higher fishing costs or resources to the community than they do today. This government has dropped hunting costs. It has hidden behind the fact that it is in order to meet the lesser and mediumsized types that are not true, far from then on. It has been anointed with such smoothness and remains the problem of smaller and medium - sized fishing costs, while the large fishing industry pays off and its shareholders huge profits. Where has that profit even landed?? We read about it in Panama's documents where it landed, in part, from a particular company and individuals. I'm afraid something more will come out of that chest in the future. It is not good to see that the profit of the nation's common resource flows by various means beyond the landstones in low taxes and does not return to society. Meanwhile, the men of the great muppets beat themselves to join them to appear in the East to fight all righteous changes in the evil scheme that has been on the people for far too long. I'm involved in increasing a special construction center, and it's shown in the bill proposed by a professional health committee, and I assist you. But I want to make radical changes in the fishing system we live in today and time and advice. I hope that with a new government in the fall, it will be possible again to begin the work of making changes in this unjust saying system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u128	A respectable president. Me and what. paritaprevir To a large extent, Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnydóttir debates the opinion that changes in the fishing system must be made in order to ensure employment, freedom, innovation, equality and settlement in the country, but now we are dealing with preliminary measures because of the intervention of this small percentage, 5% of the total profits, for which there is a provision outside the food system for the settlements in the country. That's not much of a weight, but for this, the natural nation has been able to live for a long time. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: As long as the radical changes have not been overcome in the fishing system, how does it feel that this section, this 5%, will be the best option so that it will be used to the rest of the country? Does she think this 5% is a enough share? Why not try to get a bigger percentage on this one? An idea that we combined during the last terms has been developed to try to create rent pots with a steady catchmark of minimum, 20 points. a ton. I still like that idea, at least while not making larger changes, there is something that the settlements can do. That's what I'm talking about. A senator still feels this way, or does she feel that it is right to tie it to some fixed percentage of the provisional amount?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u129	Mr. President. I think the ratio is way too low. But the will of this government is to just stir this pot and make everyone unhappy. There is talk of delinquency, changing ratios to the general population of rural docetanes, but the replacement of the coastal fishing is not to be viewed as a further increase as there may be an increase in projections from the Marine Institute and marine rights ministers increase. Now there are 239 you. a ton and can be expected to increase the second part of June, perhaps 21. another ton. Then it's 260 you're on. a ton. I don't see that interest in acting, e.g. Coastal fishing has increased proportionately in these areas, but there is a roof there. I see very little purpose in stirring this 3.5% up and down, making the existing ones and counting on this social part weaker, i.e. inhabited, and many with smaller outputs and in the hook-up system and, in fact, others as well. All you have to do is jump up like a dog. A senator knows. I remain very consistent with the development of the system, so that there is a strong tenant that grows, but there is always a minimum of any acceptable amount that goes into it, of course, to take some fluctuations after Veterans Research and increase, sometimes the swing may be downward, but the ratio to a minimum of 15% of total resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u130	A respectable president. I agree with that. A senator says his ratio is way too low. For myself, it's an old-fashioned politics to be always shoving off some kind of handout that the settlements are supposed to be able to get while this great unjust system is in the hands of a people where the main value is to be created. What, then, is the attitude of a senator? I view it as a matter of failure to make peace or any conclusion about changes in the major system should try to look for ways to make sure that, for example. new species will then be marketed so that they can be offered, and then the beach fishing will become a powerful alternative, an option for the settlements. In this regard, I wondered, " Is there no reason to cut up the beach fishing system well and try to reduce the high level of criticism there, perhaps trying to make more noise and more equal issues? ' We know that there is a much greater trend in certain areas of the coast. It has created an imbalance. And while the beach fishing has been proving its potential in recent years and the criticism has made a lot of noise, I believe that the system can be improved considerably. It would be interesting to hear what is the point of view. That's what a senator is about.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u131	Mr. President. I've talked about it, and I've put in a Senate case to build up markets. I think built-in resources would have saved much through the years if they had been present, e.g. ... inFlatune,if there were always 1 up there. tons that were confined to the settlements, and no developer could sell all the resources and leave the radio space a bit or two of space that built these resources with it by working in the fish industry and by means of the sea rafts of the person. That's why I've been talking about building markets from some minimum base. There are not necessarily a number of TVs that need it and would be out of place for the system as it is now doing so. It would then be some kind of yellow root for such settlements to make out of these places because there would be at least a thousand tons attached to these bifocals, which are always in trouble and continue to be in trouble and always have some plasters from the graffiti if nothing changes from what is present. I've already spoken for it, too, just like a whale. A senator, making positive changes in the coastal fishing system according to experience, and making regular days. It is not a law that some days of trial will be delivered. It is only man's job to decide what the law is like. Not only will it occur in time but it will happen if the mistaken politicians begin to permit it. This should not be allowed based on experience. That's why I've been talking about how coming on the beach is a good change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u132	Mr. President. I thank the President for helping me to have an opportunity to comment on this matter as if I have always done things that affect the seabed and that are produced. To be honest, I found it interesting to see the speaker's view of the book all the longest in the history of a professional professional committee, and it was different to me when this kind of seabed language has been being discussed for days at the General Assembly. This may be explained to some extent, since this work committee is here for its goodness to cut down the Ministry and Minister from the snare by taking steps to save matters in the hands of the traveling fishing year and putting in order to manage the sources that have been able to pull away from the system during the previous year of the one and the same fishing season. In itself, I think the committee did its best, probably on the basis of some prior work at the Ministry and in cooperation with it. It has no choice but to play the space the law offers through the rules it has set up to 5.3% of total fishing warrants in left-to-right species are going into the system. After an incident, I do not make large comments on how a professional health committee suggests that they will be done in the next year, especially in view of the fact that the case is being taken away only for temporary purposes in that year. First, I'd like to say that, of course, I'm glad to see the beach fishing continue with its share as if it's only blown up in the past few years and continues to be 9 of you. a ton, probably the third fishing year in a row or so, perhaps the second to the third fishing year. But I agree with the views that have shown that I had been quite willing to see this a little more and that it would have seemed fair in view of the very species of beach fishing, i.e. Fortunately, during the last few years, the cod has been increasing somewhat, looking well with it on the next year of fishing, based on advice we expect from Merjon every day. Later, I come to the impression that I had been allowed to meditate on that subject. In all things, I believe that the beach fishing has many of its value, which, of course, appeared to us that no one today dare speak for a view that they will be decomposed. I think that discussion is dead, but she didn't go low on the first one, two, three years of this system being established and developed it. Early in 2009, proposals were developed in the Scourge and Agriculture Ministry then, and if I recall correctly we introduced them at any time during the Passover season by the Ministry and the suggestions at the General Assembly on the Granda Cup bus, and I'm reminded of how much fun it was. The reasons were many, those of which, of course, are classics and represent opening a window for recent entry into the article and enabling people to take the water from the shore on smaller boats, at least the most favorable time of the year, which has been part of living on the seaside of Iceland since its beginning. Also to pay for the eco-friendly fishing of smaller vessels, where energy costs are low, and especially to try to relive life in the memory and smallest sea settlements, many of which had become quite desolate as far as rejection goes on, etc. All of this has worked out and done well. The treatment of the harvest has greatly improved. It was natural to say, though, that at first there were some discrepancies, perhaps having limited time to prepare. In the second, third year of life, I was greatly improved, and I have not heard a discussion that then merely indicated that there was some poor raw material on the move, on the contrary. She's contented with that discussion. The fishing markets are given a position to this catch, and it arrives in large part at that time of the year when large fishing grounds for larger fishing are under way. Often, a small amount of raw material was on the journey of the summer month until the beginning of a new fishing year. Of course, I also agree that it is always right and obliged to examine the experience, and certain developments and improvements may be considered in this system. In the years to come, they will be held in line for those who will be able to make them available, as well as increase in the amount that I considered. In view of the time, I'm not going to have a long discussion about the magnitude of the side arrangements, such as 5.3%. I just remind you that despite everything, the results were achieved during the last terms, along with a number of other factors pulling the amount out of the standard system in the sidebars. The range has been considerably higher since then, so established by this 5.3% rule, which is determined to become much more understanding of it and transverse support, to a considerable extent behind the present cooling system in the present form, due to the structural and social effects of the eating system with a free agent, unless at least it is possible to have at least one. There is considerable evidence aside to face the most damaging consequences of this situation. Second, I'd like to welcome the fact that edifice so I'd like to call, a greeting that goes through a living agency for some permanent provision for smaller settlements in trouble and to ensure that development, has grown more handsome since his busy in 2013 and connected with a project that was initiated, Fragle settlements. The table shows how this is taken into account on the basis of Based on Based on pooled data. It's starting to remember. Well, I guess it's quite affordable to have 400 tons of money without having to pay for it and a few years ahead. Thirteen hundred tons, Fratellis 300 tons, Southn 400 tons, Drangsnes 150 tons, Piglet 250 tons, Gímey recently 400 tons, Bakkafjörður 150 tons, Breurdalsvík 300 tons, and Hafjordur 800 tons, of it may not be as long in total time as it is yet to be met with a completely unusual blow on which it was based as far as Visavík went there, and sadly all the fishing warrants of the place with him, and, in fact, based on historical experience from the best evidence in the reference years after both Breedavísavík and Deepvóggain. Of course, it's interesting when you go over this to Húsavík, who also suffered a severe blow and lost away the remaining fishing warrants from the Cape and Húsavík Fishing Team, one 2,500 tons, is not there. However, people may say for other reasons that Húsavík is a great deal about being at Húsaví at this time, but when you look to the sea road, it would, of course, be natural that something had been done to soften only the blow that Húsavík was being hit when some wise man left the same way and out of his own way in Flattu, too. I believe that the edifice of the Agency has, in principle, been successful and proved its value, and especially, that there can be a slightly greater visuality in the system than there was previously possible in the annual distributions. It's a bit of a structured thought that I'm firmly convinced of and that I've had to make a big addition to the system, and it would have been better done right away by its recording. If, like a third of the fishing warrants from the reference year until 1983, it would have been linked to the communities and not handed out from there, it would be different. Third, I mention that I still feel that the need to re-evaluate the traditional settlement is further needed. His significance has only been reduced, yet his evaluations show that he has considerable foundation. I don't question it, but you're well-finished in discussions about these matters to know that they're not in any position to get along well with them. I think both the algorithms and perhaps to some extent the thought or the bait of that fishing warrants need to be revised. If so, what else might you consider to do about these side effects? There you will pause for the increase in codifications now, which will occur continuously in recent years from probably 2010 or when the Order was reconnected or actually in 2009 with administrative decisions, on small side tracks taken just before government conversion in January 2009, when people suddenly decided to catch 30 of you. About a ton of cod more than counseling and obtaining regulations told. It was managed to unwind the position it would otherwise have meant for the country and the disgrace of the International Ocean Research Council, etc. which we would've caught right away and were on our way. They kept to use the responsible approach. Without the fact that I'm going to thank for all the results that have been achieved since the construction of the cod population, at least It was reasonable to believe that it was a part of the human race. The people held out and allowed the cod and spawning species to grow, and we are seeing remarkable results this year after year. Now, according to all the criteria, the cod level force in cod is so advanced for the long - term average of the last 10, 15 years, and so far up for the already existing one, e.g. Special impairments began because of the poor condition of the cod population, all of which have been returned to the cod ports of cod, which have then maintained their status, unchanged share in the system. At the time, this was examined during the ministry either 2009 or 2012, 2013, and it was calculated that all the impairments would be restored once the equal force had reached about 230 you. a ton. If there were tens of thousands of tons of cod, it would be reasonable to consider at least the possibility of using at least tens of thousands of tons. any part of this increased development in the system. There are so many ways to do that. Sets the groundwork for some rent, flexibility in the system, even a regional rent rat, especially tailored to the needs of new and smaller candidates. Use some of this as a replacement on the beach fishing grounds while the fishing grounds were over some particular defined limit, etc. I believe that one still stands after being desirable, of course, for men to work their way out of shrimp and clams. It's a little tricky to have such an old replacement system in it when it's that long gone by. I am aware of the importance of it for those who have experienced the shock of the day; it is not just possible to take it all out at once; but, of course, it is an example that such temporary support systems or such support measures are simply released from the system by some minimal distribution of lasting sources instead. There is, of course, one capable way in these matters. That made it impossible to read such an old past forever into such things. In general, this improvement was achieved during the last term. There is controversy as to whether that government has reaped something in the fishing business. Yes, she did. It remains after coastal fishing, and they have become more stable, though they may be strong. Second, there is a considerable higher quantity of fishing resources now available for provision each year in the side directions of the system. That is exactly what happened in the years from collapse, followed by increasing volume. Third, the government came during the first terms of the fishing period, which the present government has, although greatly reduced, remains much, much higher than they had previously been considered. The present government, however, has done nothing, Mr. President, unless the only thing to do is to reduce hunting costs to the project of great generosity. In other respects, she has failed to focus on her case in one way or another. She's given up. Then she runs to a professional employment committee to extend the unchanged measures each year in the main network. That's all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u133	A respectable president. Thank you. His senator's speech. One of the factors that have caused habitats is when an exodus disintegras or decides to move around, leaving a pattern of wounds. As the bidder disappears from the community, everything often goes along, the fish process goes along too. So I'd like to roll up and ask. A senator on his view of the idea that has sometimes developed in this discussion, i.e. separate between fishing and processing. Because if the processing and processing permits remained in the community and were less dependent on the provider, and not necessarily an unbreakable relationship between quatane and winning the resources might be a better place in some places. I'm just calling places like Thyatira and Flats who've been really bad out of this kind of disorder. I would find it interesting to hear what the senator's attitude is about this idea, which has often and firmly entered the discussion, but somehow never happened and always faced opposition, largely by the arrangement that has benefited from having the entire values lines from the start to the finish. Now, though, we may be looking at this from a different viewpoint, which is the setting of the inhabited earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u134	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Of course, this is the timeless debate, and unfortunately we have been seeing painful manifestations of the insecurity of the settlements in unrefunded fishing warrants when those who have power over the Canaanites decide to go, all go with them, the basis of construction, and so much of the population at the same time. There is still an abundance of wounds with a falling income, reduced population size, and severe hardship. I'm not sure that the separation of fishing and processing is in itself an important inclusion in the solution of this case unless one is walking all the way in the sense that fishing and farming will literally be separated by legal separation so that humans are obliged to offer their fishing clearances across the market before they enter the process. Then, of course, this is a big change. I want to be honest; I've never completely convinced myself of the benefits of going into such a full separation simply because you know the benefits so well we meet when well-runned and decent companies, not only the big ones, but the small ones with small operations, play well from their sources, and work them together, and direct the fishing into progress, etc. I know why. A senator also knows this from his own district. It is also possible to ponder the questions about somehow binding the actual fishing warrants to a greater extent by law to the settlement in the sense that a layman intends to move or sell them are not just some invalid purchase rights of the local community but possibly with some limitations on what can go away and even duties on the shoulders of the State to some sort of release on the fishing grounds. [[The president calls.]] Actually, there are a number of options in this case if there is a political wish. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u135	A respectable president. I know why. A senator was a bit reluctant about this idea at the time, not quite paid for it. You see, I think if the senator's way of offering all uncivil fish to domestic markets and separating them from fishing and processing, it could save a lot of money. I have certain doubts about all this settlement in the sense that while there's so little provision, and there's been a fist of such limited solutions to the local law, it makes me feel like it's an unhealthy situation. It would be much closer, as the senator mentioned, if the settlement could be attached to a certain amount of resources to ensure that if the contractor decides to move, the whole courtyard will not go away. It also raises a question about whether it was, now I'm thinking aloud, not the normal thing to try to reduce all of these smaller subversive methods and simple systems and to deliver them even to my rural communities or to the settlements for some of the resources. How to find these sources, there are various ways to do so. You might be getting a raise. There are new species coming, etc. But does the senator agree that it might be more successful to change these existing settlements and try to simplify them?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u136	Mr. President. It's not that I also see various advantages that might involve going on that path. I've often said and wondered that the bottom line is that we demand complete accounting and even business separation of the two factors, even if the company was a combination, it would be part of the process of solving Cronian debates with sailors in which the companies are composed. That all the forces that do not go directly to work at the same party should be marketed, that it is condition that you can only pass through the market if you are running a combination company where you play the raw materials and processing for your own management. However, it has to be recognized that it is one of the things that has given rise to the Icelandic seafront and is one of the reasons why we stand so strong in the square market with a lovely fresh fish through flights, etc. directly to the market in Europe, mainly, that we are superior to all other countries in this respect, to ensure delivery of this high quality on a regular basis, and the year around us to the fact that these possibilities for harmonization are available. But to rethink the treatment of the one that exists in the system, I completely agree with that. In fact, I'm of that opinion, and I've been thinking that for a long time, if we could ever build any handsome foundation of fishing in general, at least all the smaller until we got to a bigger factory, we might need nothing else. Even a system could be so simple that it would just always be for the annual relative replacements of the local authorities who worked from the local community and worked on fish. [[The president calls.]] That would always be enough to attract the new party, the yellow root, though one chance. This is what I have sometimes, Mr. President, called the Grenigur model of the ocean, but I don't have time to explain it further. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u137	A respectable president. Here we discuss temporary measures in such a sharp break in the saying system that it is rather tragic to think that it is what should be built into the ice when the big movie is seen. I would like to use my speaking lesson to discuss the fishing system, its problems, and why changing that system is so important. I'm one of those who don't think it's sufficient to put fishing on the project to ensure entrance into the state fund. Of course, there is improvement if normal, reasonable fishing fees can be set aside and provided for the better use of the fish resource than has been added to social projects. But it is the system itself that also needs to change because its structure prevents employment freedom, prevents recruitment, prevents equality, and prevents normal urban development in the country, as the examples of true and painful experiences over the years have revealed. The marine exit is a very productive industry. Of course, he's supposed to run for a baloney in a society that's been dealing with as big and as serious a blow as Icelanders in recent years, I'm not talking about falling. Hence, it was shocking during the last term, when a vote was made to change this system, to see how hard and cruel men were going in protecting the interests of the major fishing industry, and to reject as a source of all the viewpoints that proposed to increase the social responsibility of these sectors, and to show that it is a bearing force in modern society should, on the other hand, be a member of society. Tremendous funds flow through the water, and in recent years they have done so, which, more than the examples, would prove to be entering society. During the last term, we will not be remembered as those who were fighting during the last season how propaganda war was fought against what we viewed as timely and natural changes in the fishing system. In fact, that discussion was in a very small way consistent with the occasion. In the land, people would cry out over the seabed in case the system was roughed down. They spoke as if they were being separated from their legitimate possessions and used by nations, as they often said. If the settlements themselves were not to lie desolate, fishing was to lie down on the shores of the country if these plans were to be done. Of course, there was very little that could be accomplished by those foreigners and their spokesmen here at the General Assembly. Of course, fishing will not cease or destroy the land, although builders would be formalized to see what they have called their rights for possession would be turned into a novelty, in line with the purpose of the laws that have been used for a long time. Although, e.g. a resource fund would be established from where the fishing grounds would be set aside for future use in society and that the production would bring in a modest amount of money. You see, it is the opposite. It's the current eater system today that has called a serious national disorder. The most intense example we have of this is small settlements, such as. A five - foot - high - a - mile - in - a - half - year - old Innundur fun. It's a painful blow to the man who sells and goes one day. One morning, the inhabitants wake up to the fact that nothing is like the previous, and their feet have been pulled away from the commercial life of the place. In the fall, I began to see a nice film called a weather documentary, which I would like for all members of the council to see. It's a duty view, just to realize what happens in one community and what danger the marine settlements are given because of the system we now have in the fishing industry. Likely, it was never the lawgiver's will that the trial become what it is. It's the same as 1st. A fish - control song, which is their object code, reads with permission of a president: The European Court of Auditors is the European Union of the European Union. Then it says: Under these laws, the distribution of fishing warrants does not constitute the ownership or the unregistered custody of the individual bodies of the fish market. It is with another nation whose fish are in the sea, we may be able to call it the State, but the law of the peoples is ◯. It seems that since the first time the Lawgiver wanted it to have a right to use on that resource, not on property. I think it's perfectly clear from the point light. Of course, we can recall what has often been discussed in this field, that it is a system that, according to the United Nations Human Rights Committee, violates human rights and prevents normal innovation as humans are forced to become hired officers of the resources. The system involves the same type of lesion as the collection and the overlaying that caused the economic collapse in the fall of 2008. People have also allowed themselves to talk about it as if the free expeditation system of fishing warrants, the saying of the greeting system is some kind of model system that cannot be disturbed. It has even been said that other nations look upon us Icelanders with a view to trying to learn from our fishing regime in this regard. Why, then, is it that the cry cry box always cries out over the article every time it comes to talk about changing some of its conditions? That is a thought - provoking point. The seabed is a basic work branch in our community. Of course, we want to protect this sector and provide normal conditions for it, but it needs to apply the guidelines around this sector that can be considered reasonable, socially meaningful, and open to the fact that people are free to look for food in fishing. Because I mentioned Flats back then, the West is the part of the country that's gotten one of the worst out of the quota system. I would like to remind you of a recent resolution recently adopted by the Western Society, which is called upon by the government's responsibility as a result of a shock that regularly bombards Western clinics in the form of legislatures from the region, as this suggests. I'll read on, with president's permission: In fact, by means of the transport of markets from the fourth quarter, Westerners have been deprived of their native rights, using their own major resource, a productive fishing center. The Society calls for practical ideas regarding the structure of labour documents. The meeting requires that appropriate measures immediately be taken to allow Westerners to use their own resources to support employment life and to build up a quarter. That really says it all. If someone thought that the fishing industry and the differences and the disagreements about the dominant fishing system were over because the existing government has been trying to keep that issue quiet, then it's a misunderstanding. The problem still burns on the settlements of the country. Business freedoms have not increased. The newness has not increased. The level has not increased. And to the extent that urbanisation has been achieved, it is because of tourism, not because conditions in the seas have improved. Probably it will be the travel service that saves the country's settlements. I'm not talking about if the existing government gets its way, because they don't intend to interfere with the system. Therefore, it is very important to put this government away, change the government, and change the course in this major and important way so that it can become the heart as well as the pulse that gives life to the regions as normal as it normally does the job. The buildings don't need any alms. It is not appropriate to offer them altruistic alms from a fraction of what is available. The building is all we can ask of ourselves. It is the right of the natives to suggest that the settlements get the survival of themselves, to save themselves. So, of course, it should be a moral obligation, would I say, in the present fishing system and should not be overworked by the current government to take up new species and offer them and even take them, although only part of the expansion and postendum, because it is through the embassies, all can come and invite to the labour market. The key point is that the settlements are allowed to save themselves. Hopefully, we will be able to change our rulership here before things go too far, so that the nation no longer has to live in the present condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u138	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a nice speech. It is refreshing to get back into the fishing business and change in the fishing system. This discussion has not been much during the past three years since we had a good discussion about it during the last term, and much work was put on the reexamination of the system. Sadly, the harvest was not just as we expected, although it would certainly be a harvest that we can be happy with, we opened a gap into the system with coastal fishing, and some other changes to be welcomed. Hv. A senator arrived earlier on the separation of fish fishing and processing, without fishing, and vice versa. We know that there is a fish industry without development, and it has spoken extensively that even if there were only a certain proportion of fish that would be available in the market, it would change everything for such fish. It could then be competitive, not only with other projects in the country, but also with fish farming at its hand, in order to keep markets and with the possibility of being able to always feed the raw materials. It has been said that perhaps 30% of the world's income would be minimal in the market. It would also have an impact on the quality of seamen, often on minimal prices compared to minimal prices as fish farming and production at the same hand pays to sailors in their productions. I wanted to hear what I had to say. Senator on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u139	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. Yes, it is refreshing to come here and discuss only seabeds after a period of time. As the senator mentioned, I have been eager to separate between fishing and processing. A key factor in the fact that fishing is always on the move in order to be able to offer a harvest for a living. That it can provide raw materials, for that is the substance, the setting up at the site that is important to the local industry. I don't remember any better than we do. A senator made a suggestion during the last term just about that, or we would have agreed that a fixed proportion would be expected to be involved. I think that might be a great improvement. Then I didn't come in much else in my speech, which I would have wanted to mention, for example. The beaches, to prepare well for them. This may be the most positive thing that has happened in the fishing business for a long time. That's where it was. A senator and now a seated officer. President, Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfuelson, concerned with much of the initiative that is commendable, for this literally saved the appearance of the summer settlements. After the coast weather, you felt so good. I would think that it would be very important to promote this factor and make the system very well, but it can be fixed. I think that only the quality of the coastal weather needs to be adjusted so that it can be even more useful than it has been.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u140	Mr. President. I want at the short time that I have to throw up an idea that has been discussed only on the job committee. It assumes that all people who have resources today place a certain ratio, say only 15%, in a pot that would be rented for parties according to specific conditions, could be regionalized, and by edification categories. The pot would be rented on account of the State; income would come in against it; but the contribution of the makings into the pot that would be rented out would be in the value of hunting bills. This may be too much to digest and answer in a short answer, but I'd like to put it on the job committee. I have to say, I'm a little into thinking this idea a little further and working with it because we need to be a little solution-fooled and roll up all the things in this subject. We know that the government has been lowering the fishing costs for the big marketing. This could be adjusted in such a way that the state did not lose income because it would be given in exchange for the resources, but it would still be sure that certain fishing teams would have access to the pot and settlements far and wide around the country, but some minimum fishing price would still be paid.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-26-119.u141	A respectable president. I'm glad if I do. A professional committee has become creative in bringing up new ideas. I think it's a bad idea. A senator gave you all the attention, I have to say it. But I am stressing that this is not to be considered a solution to the case, that everyone had become content, but as a means of improving the situation, while not making any more urgent changes, I feel that there is a reason for me to consider this, that the sources that the making of these documents were required to enter this pot, which would be a free auction, would be in the value of a share of hunting policy. They may not have completely paid for hunting fees, but they may be valued as part of a fishing policy. I think it's totally possible. But then the point is, what we're talking about is a big pot. How much could this be? It would have to be novel as a real option, as an outcast that could be reached by the settlements. The idea is worth everything. The fishery, because we're talking about them, was naturally very sad that the government to which we are sitting would make it its first task to reduce them as seriously as it really happened, because on that slanted investment plan of the previous government and much we could have done with the money that had come in. Of course, it may also be possible to benefit in the way the senator mentioned, that we would receive a series of sources of equivalents, or the opposition, of hunting fees.
