ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u1	To answer, Ministers of Economics and Economics, Industrial and Business Ministers, Social and Housing Ministers, Foreign Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u2	A respectable president. We knew from public publicity last year, about the Lands Bank's sale of Borg, that this company had been sold to the special buyers of the Lands Bank, and received only the offer of the City Department. The sales were held in secret and without any competition for prices and prices, with the value of the company and its interest. What we have learned since then is that the Lands Bank has made a serious mistake in valuing the company's prices and making a contract has not ensured access to the huge pay that the company is now about to make, as he did to the sale of the Valitor object at the same time. The bank also seems to have seriously underestimated the business opportunities of the company's payoff, if it can be used in one year to obtain enormous amounts of value beyond the price of a 20% share. How are you planning to go to the top? The minister responds and restores confidence in the Bank of Land after all this terrible story? Does he support our ideas on the investigation of the sale, its arrangements, and its titles? Will he be there with us to use such a study to get everything together in this business, and can we learn from this lesson as we continue with the anticipated sales of the state on the next loss?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u3	A respectable president. The National Bank has an independent government, and in that administration, the Bank Office then administers the stock, a kind of armpanary view of how the government's orders work, so that in itself the affairs of the Lands Bank are not in any way in themselves, except by general means, as with other financial institutions, at the table of the Ministers of finance. Therefore, the secretary of finance cannot be responsible for the trust of the Lands Bank. It is the manager and the head of the bank and according to the events of the Bank Office that take these cases to discuss them and to be responsible for them. I'm not going to get into this discussion about how it was being sold, because I have no grounds for it, but I understand that the heads of the Lands Bank have already appeared before the Council Committee here and made an account of the case. I notice that yesterday the Lands Bank has also twice published an explanation of its homepage, stressing his own responsibility for maintaining confidence in the bank. There are a lot of things to be done on this business, including The apparent contribution of the account at Paying seems to have been made to a large extent after the National Bank sale of its share in paying, i.e. because after the sale, the company decided to vent in a foreign market, a large part of the explanation behind the greater value of the stocks or property, the share, in Visa Europe. Other than that, I have no basis in itself to enter this matter. But, of course, I support if there's any way in which these cases have been conducted in a government company. [[The president calls.]] Then you must follow the proper channel, request it at the Bank County, or notice events involving the government of the bank. I don't have any doubt that the bank's administration or managers are prepared to appear to the council members as they have done before, and explain these things. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u4	A respectable president. It is true that the rulers have sent out a resolution and before a panel, but the facts in question do not conflict with the explanation given. That's the real issue and the problem we're dealing with. That's why I think it's very important for a real investigation. I'll take it that way. Ministers will not violate it, and then will take it up at the level of the Council Board and Control Committee that we will review the resources available. Studying this is important because there is a further sale of government property at the door. V.E.G. A minister set up a bill for Christmas, which he puts before the end of this month. It allows for 60 billion assets and to continue to sell them. In the bill it is assumed that the management of the holding society is irresponsible of all that is done and that individual employees can make decisions about selling property up to a billion dollars. I'm just saying, with the experience of paying off, it's time to contain this irresponsible drive and create a firmer and more disciplined accounting for government sales. [[The president calls.]] We should be able to unite in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u5	Mr. President. I don't know that there is any fundamental difference between how to sell state property I just don't know what it means or what it's really about. As for the stability progress, the bill referred to here is just thought that a big increase in transparency and eventually some individuals will have to make decisions. We cannot do this in such a way that each time we sell property, we maintain national law. You can't have it like that. This situation is very much up - to - date, and it comes to committees for material treatment. [[Up front.]] Then it is this, with all these properties being referred to, that men should only take time and not be judgmental, give them an opportunity to appear before the committee, as they have before, and I'm sure they're ready to do again. In the end, I think it would be nice for men to think about how important, in all this light, to reduce suspicion, to get these assets out to the public. Then people can be sure that they are not trying to pull up bigger ridicule as they keep saying they are. Rather, they take the responsibility together.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u6	A respectable president. Reports are coming every year about the pouring out of good beer because there is a regulations that stipulate the sale of Christmas or Easter, and this Regulation is at the Ministry of finance. I think it's a ridiculous waste. This Regulation is the work of men, but it is 7th paragraph. in a Regulation on the product selection and sale of alcohol. It is a yearly product. Although I could imagine drinking Christmas beer today, would rather not be spilled on him, I don't have a chance because he can't be sold, as I understand this. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he is not just doing the task of changing this Regulation so that this waste will be prevented.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u7	Mr. President. Here is a big deal, another example of how far we have often wanted to take control of society. Easter must be purchased only if it is Easter. There should be no drunken Christmas beer unless there's Christmas coming ahead and not too long after the Christmas feast is over. Of course, these are rules that should be reviewed, as well as where to sell the beer. It is absolutely true that a lot of waste is involved when a product is being taken in all respects and poured out because the meaning conflicts with the calendar. That's a waste, of course. That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u8	A respectable president. I don't know if there was some irony in it at the highest level. Minister, this is a big deal. This is big. Food waste is a serious matter. It is said that one third of the foods produced in the world end in one way or another as waste, from the field, and until the beer is produced and poured out. So we're supposed to take care of everything we can to reduce the amount of food we eat. I understood the best. A minister so he intended to handle the matter, I would like to get a clear answer to that, or if I need to follow through with a written inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u9	Mr. President. There was no intention of minimizing the inquiry. It's just a little refreshing to have a discussion about drinking alcohol on these grounds after a long discussion of state dedication in a little sales. When it comes to this matter, it is said to be a small matter of waste of time here at the council. But as this inquiry reveals, many minor issues may be major. If they are not given careful consideration, they will gradually, in small steps, reduce their social development. I just think this is a good example, like I traced in my first answer, about how far men have wanted to guide society. I think there's more to it than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u10	President. First, I want to commend the highest. The secretary of state for his conduct in this matter is subject to the commercial pressure against the Russians. I think it's very important to keep it up that if you have an operation and you've been part of a system and then you're going to go back because of national interests and pressure, you really don't have an active foreign policy. For what? A foreign - business committee has often been discussed with them on business terms and on their usefulness. I wanted to see the discussion, which included why. The minister of state has participated, asking if there is some kind of work at the Ministry to abandon the policy of being involved in the business paraphernalia that is under the foreign policy we are in today. I think it is very important that all business pressure be checked in the field where we have a representative in the international work and wanted to know if a minister could hear any information about the benefits of such pressure or not. I'd also like to know if it's the highest. The minister considers these policies as well as those we have engaged in have yielded to the results they were expected to achieve.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u11	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry and a good word. Of course, it is only natural for a person to discuss pressures, economic pressures, and what they are and whether they work and give back anything. This has been viewed as three phases in international relations. It's this diplomacy, the conversation, that you try to discuss things before you take some action. Forces are the next phase, and they continue to discuss things anyway. Sadly, a third kind of armed conflict that, of course, is seen too often. Happily, in some cases, the discussion continues and attempts to resolve matters. There is no work at the Ministry to disappear from our existing foreign policy and to become part of it. However, it is probably a matter of reviewing the laws of forced behavior in Iceland. I'm planning and I've discussed it in the government to assign a group at least to begin with, appointed officials, in order to cross the laws of forcedness. We will see to it that if we do something more about it or if we shift that group out or what we do with it, we will. At the very least, they will at some point be presented to the State Department. Is it any good to be forced or not? Yes, there are some of their benefits; they too are controversial, of course. Things changed in South Africa for the better because of business pressure, and we now see the results of the pressure against Iran, where there is a agreement to raise a large percentage of them, not all of them, but it will give the Irish the opportunity to build up their country and they have met the conditions for nuclear development and so on. It has also been recognized by the Russian president that in that country the pressures have been affected, even though there may have been greater effects on oil prices. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u12	President. I want to thank you very much. A minister for very clear answers that are unusual often during times when you ask a minister about what you want to know about what is going on in their course. I look forward to taking a closer look at the work that is expected to begin at the Ministry by appointing a team to do more extensive research on the purpose and order of business pressure. I felt that the minister came to a very important point when we were discussing diplomacy. Although they often produce less results than is hoped - for, they are the next steps and measures to prevent war.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u13	A respectable president. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that it is better to take these measures than to engage in armed conflicts. We really do not know what would have happened in Europe if the pressures under conditions in Ukraine had not been addressed. But I'd like to allow myself to say here that the arrangement that is in these pressures today with regard to government and the Council is not all bad. There's a process that we need to go through when new pressures are approved, etc., but it's probably just going through them and looking at them. There's been a challenge, and then we will. First, we'll go this way, as I said before at the official level, and then introduce it to the State Department and see what's coming. This is something that will, of course, take time, but at least we start with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u14	Mr. President. It has been reported that the European Commission has authorized to reduce the number of distribution days in rural areas to every other active day instead of the daily distribution and is responsible for the State Department's Regulation. The U.S. government has strongly objected, and I am here speaking from both the Dalas and the United States, where their plans are objected. As an example of the impairments in the region of the Dalas, it has been suggested that farmers could order medication at a veterinarian's home during phone hours in the morning and receive them with their mail on the same day. The same value to some extent about the pharmacy shipments and supply parts of the vehicles that need quick service. A report from the Governor of the Strandlands states that the loss of mail services on those who do not have access to other services of the same nature where there is no other distribution, as well as the same area with little or no network service. Another result of reduced mail services is an even greater decrease in national activities and may be compared to the decision that another nail is fired at the back of a rural farm. So I want to ask the highest. Implementing this project as the Ministry of Ministers, with a change of regulations, the head of Iceland can decide to reduce the number of days of distribution in rural areas and in scattered areas, the decision was made in 2005 by a member of the EU secretary of transportation, Sturla Böðvarsson, to offer a 5-day mail service throughout the country, as well as in the European Union. I think it's quite a journey to these scattered areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u15	A respectable president. I can't agree that with this warrant in a Regulation, it's a nail in the national coffin. That is what I feel when they say it is a deep river. I always understand the concern that the senators have of scattered areas, of course. I know that service there is very important. But I think it's a lot of luck to say that even though there's a warrant in a Regulation to reduce the number of mail days to three, there's some special mission across the country. I won't agree to it. This is authority in a Regulation that must continue to work in order to determine a reduction in the number of mail days. In connection with the change in this Regulation, the Ministry of Internal Affairs decided to investigate, a general survey amongst the people, the way people viewed the mail service, the number of times when mail would have to be distributed. The conclusion was, in fact, that there have been considerable changes in the way people approach mail. It's got a lot to do with the Internet as we know it. This was not shown in a survey that general opposition is the result of greater flexibility on the day of posting. I have not seen this great protest. A senator, at least not to mention such a matter. I think people should just breathe out of this. This is a warrant for a Regulation, which I see no reason to be so worried about. A senator has.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u16	Mr. President. I'm really worried about this. The spokesmen of the scattered regions are dwindling, and the rest of us will not be able to stand up to be their spokesmen here at the General Assembly. It is just the community that has scattered within its boundaries that are sending letters to members of Congress and that express their concern and dissatisfaction that one more trip should offer a second-rate service to a government firm, an Iceland Summit, in these very vulnerable areas. This will help to help to create conditions in these areas to become ill. Communicate with the European Union's member countries and Western Fourth Union, which has been involved in this case, is little or nothing. At that point, they felt that it wasn't in the movies. But then this is what's going on, it's open to this under Regulation, and Iceland's set up contractors in the e-mail service and is about to run on this plan on a full trip. [[The president calls.]] I express great dissatisfaction with the lack of understanding of this matter presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u17	A respectable president. I absolutely refuse that this is some particular lack of understanding of the situation of my country, I completely reject it. That's the way it is because of a ballast service -- what? A senator specifically mentioned in his first question the need for certain things at times - that nothing prevents such a change from taking immediate action. There's a big misunderstanding. A senator thinks so. I think, and I'm going to reiterate it, quite far along when it is claimed that making such changes is in a special and almost organized way under attack on the land. It's completely ridiculous, and I'm totally denying it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u18	Lakier service.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u19	V.E.G. President. Since 2010, policies on housing have been under way, and the result has always been the same, to promote rent markets by building tenants, and to provide additional support to tenants. There has been a political agreement on this, not only with the political groups, but also with the labour market partners and the Union of Icelandic rural society. Of course, the Independence Party has not objected to this course. Finally, the matter of housing has been discussed on a welfare committee. It wasn't easy for the Minister of Social Affairs to get the cases to the council. Reports of opposition within the Independence Party are heard. That's why I want to ask the highest. The secretary of finance a few questions: I'd like to ask if the Independence Party is not fully concerned with the headquarters of the social and housing minister. I'd like to ask if it's the highest. Secretary of finance has supported matters in the government. I'd like to ask if they were taken care of by the Independence Party without notice. I would like to ask if the independent Party secretary's criticism of the bills reflects the independence party's attitude toward them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u20	Mr. President. I don't really know what to say to this speech. [[Top of the list: Reply.]] This was a continuous argument of claims and then followed by questions that led to the claims. If I just start with the claims, they were more or less wrong - that you come up here in an answer to the fact that the Independence Party did not object that there has to be something to do about the housing market in Iceland. [[Up front.]] There's a lot of ups. A senator? How amazing it is to suggest that this is not a direct protest to the need for some action on a housing market! [[Up front.]] What we have been doing in this government is more targeted, more extensive, and more efficient than we have seen for a long time. They are especially connected with the loans. In recent years, we have been able to reduce the debt of households, one of the largest housing operations ever done in Iceland. Regarding the bills that have arrived at the council, you should not have to stand here and answer if the matter is supported by governments and members of the council, matters that have come into the committee. A senator sits. What kind of query is this? That's the kind of thing you have to say. [[Up front.]] It is the nature of the issue, members of Parliaments who claim to be a government-specific case that has come through members of Congress. They also need physical treatment during the council. We need to ask ourselves some questions, e.g. in the indications that are indicated under contemporaneous treatment, or not, respectively. A senator, that a man should listen for indications under conquistador, or is this all predetermined in her mind?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u21	V.E.G. President. Well, there you go. I asked a few questions and could not find a clear answer to them. Of course, congregational matters are subject to material treatment, and good comments are taken into account. However, it is important for us who are working hard to determine if the government is not really planning to take care of them. V.E.G. The minister of finance thus was able to bring it into an extra position, yes, the Independence Party would support it, but he could not answer his direct questions about his support of the bill and unauthorized approval of it at the Independence Party. At the same time, rent payments haven't increased for three years. A survey of the lowest paid members of the ASI population shows that they pay about 40 to70% of their rent - payable provisions. The highest level of action. Secretary of finance has turned to the one who already owns his home while tenants have been unsettled by the park. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I can't believe that the Independence Party is leaving them with people behind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u22	A respectable president. Is it not true that the bills have arrived at the council? They haven't been measured yet? [[Up front.]] Isn't the government overrun them yet? [[Up front.]] Isn't that so? A member of the committee is involved? [[The president calls.]] Why does the senator talk like someone's waiting for...? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] - I'm sure you could get a chance to get in here, huh? A senator who calls out, trying to get to a seminar by the making, that's for sure. [[Up front.]] The Senator should not speak as if there were no bills yet. That's what he does. Therefore, these questions are not worth answering to support the matter. They're not. So they will not be answered. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] This is political propaganda. [[Up front.]] There's got to be a difference between that. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u23	A respectable president. I thank the President for not taking me anywhere. Selling banks is a challenge. We have experience from this, and bitter experience, from the last privatization of the bank that it is subject to a different viewpoint than the public's interest in the natural price and competition for the sold people being hired. At the time, these same groups were in the government, and they have not been able to investigate their own personal development. Opacity and complex property connections were the root causes of the events that later led to the 2008 financial and Faulting. In the time of the last government, the rules were set up for sale of the property of the state, and the county of Banks were set up to play a role in that project. Still, there are many things to keep in mind when we are living right now. The first question worth asking is, " What's going on? The country's in currency. There is no chance that any investors in Iceland can afford to buy a bank for their own strength on the basis of their own economy. Thus, there is still the possibility that people will buy on a different basis, that they will pay overpay the bank price in order to get in a position to pay the price out of the public, Icelandic and Icelandic public, for the following decades under cover, and in the shelter of the isolation that the U.S. banking system provides. It is also very important to take seriously the comments made by the Bank Office, which a recent report says that it is not advisable to start a possession share in the National Bank until you decide where to end it with the Lands Bank. Will the Kingdom continue to be the majority owner, the minority owner, or sell themselves all the way out of the bank? This does not exist, and so does the sky and sea between the views of the government parties in that environment, and the forwarding party represents a campaign against the Lands Bank's sales these days on community media. So before any sale can be started at the Bank of Lands Bank, what will be the policy for the bank's future estate? I can explain to myself that it would be normal to visualize the long - term share of the State in the Bank of Land. It does not necessarily have to be a majority property, but it needs to be that the State has a key place in this area in the face of scattered holdings. It is also important to ensure the diversity of other banks in Iceland. Preferably, one bank comes to a pension fund and a foreign possession becomes the third. A foreign holding is important in reducing the risk in the financial system because when it comes to the Icelandic economy and it is difficult to finance banks, if the economic crisis is special, downturns in Iceland, support in having a foreign possession where foreign owners can finance their own banks, thus reducing the financial benefits of a small banking system with a substantial currency. It is also important to consider now whether there is no opportunity to make more fundamental changes in the financial system. All over the world, the financial system as it has become today to serve itself, to suck off the value of valuable employment and homes, to create ever more complex and complex products to secure governments and those working within the sector, to make enormous profits, to make a living, and to make money for the common people. I quoted a recent book by the famous economist of John Key, Our People's Money, which deals with how the financial system is based on taking over other parties. We in the United States will have John Key here until springtime. It is important that we take advantage of the opportunity now, when the ownership is due to various events, in order to reflect on how financial systems we want them to have. Do we want to clear up a financial system that is primarily for people and valuable enterprises and not ourselves? Do we want to turn our backs on the money markets that have been in general since 1980? [[The president calls.]] The opportunity for this is now, and therefore it is important to make a balanced decision about policy now at this point before starting a sale for a share in the state's banks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u24	V.E.G. President. I would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss these major issues related to the government's ownership of financial enterprises, on the one hand, to the National Bank, perhaps what we have been discussing, and, on the other, to Iceland Bank, which is now in the hands of the state as a stability project and is a relatively recent situation that changes the environment considerably. By so doing, the state has become the largest owner in a commercial market in Iceland. It has been government policy, as mentioned in the budgets of the past few years, to sell this item at the Lands Bank, i.e. Section 28.2%, this is less than 30% at the bank. I don't think it's desirable in the long run that the state has as much share in the financial system as it currently exists. It is both unnatural that the State has a high level of risk - related activity and, in the same way, a great deal of competition in a financial market if the State has head and shoulders over other people. I'm going to start by saying that I'm basically in agreement with the basics of the original - language program, i.e. that the financial system does not have a place to be in the government's hands, it may be ideal for us to have a substantial share, though less part of one bank for a longer time, but otherwise the banks and financial systems should be in the hands of private people. I agree with you, too. A senator when he says that it would be nice to receive a foreign ownership of at least one bank. That's something we've never accomplished in Iceland. There's never been enough interest elsewhere in sharing in a financial company in Iceland, although at a time we thought there was a witness that some interest seemed out of hand. We've seen some sign of interest, for example. to sell financial companies in their time, but it did not prove to be those who were willing to pay the highest price. So I agree with all the emphasis I had. A senator contributes to the long - term tradition of ownership. Then we will ask: What must we sell to the State? We now have very high interest costs. It is the state that has the highest interest cost in all European countries. In fact, we have more interest costs than Greeks because of the interest we live in, more than the interest costs of the Greeks. There should be something to tell us about how much we have to pay for what we own and pay off debts. There is yet another reason, except for the two I mentioned earlier, that the state should not be too busy, should not be carrying heads and shoulders over others, not too much of a venture. This is yet another reason why there is good evidence by selling the property of the Lands Bank. I'm also going to say that I don't think it's possible to say that we're rushing something in 2016 when we're thinking of selling a limited share of the state in the Lands Bank. That's -- pay attention - 2016. We got the bank in our arms in 2008. We've had him in 2009 and in 10 and 11 and 12 and 13 and 14 and 15. Now it's 2016 and we're talking about not even selling 30% shares. It is the opinion of the Bank Office, which has the legal function that now it is creating a situation to implement the plans that we have made for a long time. In a statement published on January 8th, by the State Bank Management Board. can be found four criteria that the Agency has established on when it is right to start a trade process in such large a share as that of the State at the Bank of Lands. The aims are that the Icelandic economy has grown stronger and stable, that the value of financial companies is acceptable, that investors are interested and an investment figure in a holding object, and that operating, recovery, financial systems, and governances suggest that the company can be considered to be a considered investment option. In short, the Commission concluded that these conditions are all met, and it is therefore time to initiate sales therapy in my opinion of the National Bank. We can't determine how the market situation is this year or the next year, but I find that we should continue and follow through on these plans. With regard to the legal frame for financial companies, I am running out of time, but I want to draw attention to the tremendous changes we have already made in the law and are involved in making laws that will transform all opportunities and opportunities for financial ventures. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would point out, however, that there were but the personal requirements that are so much greater and higher than they once were. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u25	Mr. President. Surely, then, we Icelanders cannot deny that we have a penalty to protect ourselves from the privatization of banks. Those who have become somewhat rusty on that subject did well to submit a report of the Allegorical Committee and read, if I recall correctly, e.g. Volume 6 of that. Second, it is proper to remind you that it was not the State who owned banks that put the banking system on its side and near the country. No, it was private. In just six years, they were able to destroy the banking system they had received. If we look at the situation now, the strange situation seems to be obvious to us that the highest interests in the state are in the pursuit of only one of the three large banks that the state does not own or does not own, Anion Bank, selling. By the bank, the bank sells in the next few years. Hence, looking to the market situation, it can be reasoned with the premise that the state is working against itself and its own interests to interfere with its ownership in other banks. The market and investment capacity, even if the pension funds show this interest, are not such that it is likely that many large banks will sell themselves in one piece or in a large way without a substantial discount. There are many other reasons why it is unwise, and in any case, it is premature to begin with some measure of property at the Bank of Lands. Although there was quite a change in financial legislation, that work is not finished. V.E.G. For example, a financial minister knows well that there is not a definitive conclusion on the implementation of future legal legislation on broken financial companies, whether or not it will be of business banking and investment banking, what will be the ultimate financial requirement after the Basel III regulations have been fully implemented. We need a future date. [[The president calls.]] If the government sells some of its share at the Lands Bank, what will it have in the future? May be cited as examples in Norway in that subject, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The conclusion is that this reaction is premature.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u26	A respectable president. I'll be late saying that selling banks is not a problem. It's a private bank. I think Iceland and I have quite a lot of experience with that assignment. We should be able to learn from the importance of not rushing, listening to all views, and making them professional. In short, it seems to me that the plans to sell this limited property are considerable, i.e. less than 30% of the government at the Lands Bank. I believe that it will be done professionally. I think we too can learn a lesson from how it works. To say that you have to face the fact that it's not a simple matter, I'd also like to say clearly that I don't think it's wise that the state has a bank. It may be wise to have a limited share in the financial system, but I don't think it would be wise for the state to have a bank account. I found this to be a bad experience when the government ran the banks in Iceland. There was a botanizing political corruption in that system. I believe the government's ownership of financial systems has offered such corruption. I also think banking is too risky to justify the government's having the current financial share. I think it would have been really bad if the state had the banks that went under in 2008. It just offered a chance in the restoration of the financial system that the State does not own the banks. It is sometimes said that the State will only take the loss when financial systems turn aside, but that is not entirely correct. It was possible to enter the financial system and rebuild the banks with personal loans that were borrowed. They were always expected to sell things and pay off those loans, but they also took over property and the State took over possessions to make sure that they received their contribution back. [[The president calls.]] I think the experience is to show that over time, although the shock has been a great deal, it is the State's authority to come out plus in crowns and pennies because of the growth of possessions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u27	A respectable president. Bank accounts report concludes that it is right to start a trade process in up to 28.2% of the state's share at the National Bank. This conclusion is surprising, especially since the prices of bank stocks in European countries are still very low compared to an historical average, as well as what local investors don't have the resources to buy the item in the bank. In addition, the fact that Anion Bank is in a trade process and the market is saturated. Under the circumstances that now exist, it is not appropriate or possible to obtain the highest price for the State of the Lands Bank. What a responsibility it is to begin the sale of the item in such an unfashionable situation, and the damage of a government fund by its haste could eventually take tens of billions of dollars in the future! The Kingdom has reaped a wealth of wealth and interest from the Bank of Land, a total of 200 billion. In addition, it will be possible to pay 63 billion from the bank this year to a government fund. Even if moderate gain is expected in the future, it will still remain higher than the cost of the State because of its continuance. By continuing to own the property, all the people of the land will benefit from the benefits that go into the Kingdom fund. By selling the item now, the benefits go to a narrower group. The banking board believes that foreign investors might be interested in a share at the Lands Bank. But how can it serve our best interests to sell a share in the largest and most profitable business in the country and that on tomborp? Is it not obvious, then, that for years to come, money will run out of foreign currency? If a large proportion of the banking system ended up in the possession of foreign investors, as some dreamt, it would be the result of a long - term subsidence of the country's standard of living, with only a decade of currency coming up to hundreds of billions of dollars. It must be the government's duty to avoid such an accident. A respectable president. This matter is more important than it is that all arguments can be torn to pieces in two minutes than I encourage all members of the council to examine this huge interest. My conclusion is that under the present circumstances it is not possible to obtain a good price for the property of a trust fund in banks and the interests of state funds, therefore, to be better paid by continuing to own the ownership of it and benefit from it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u28	A respectable president. There is not much that can be said about this matter with great depth in two minutes. Now, once again, I complain that the time in special discussions at the council is too short. When it comes to the privatization of banks, especially this part, I am not sure how best to have it in the future. I don't think there's a way that's safe. The reason for this is because I think the Icelandic economy is very special in important matters, so classical economic theories, which I believe would be much stronger in a larger economy, do not go up in Iceland to the extent that they would go up in larger communities. Much of this is simply the small population in Iceland. Another huge number of dollars is the source of isolation in the Icelandic financial market and in the Icelandic economy. That's why I always think it's important that we talk about things like the personal development of banks in the context of Iceland's symptoms, i.e. The Icelandic crown and the insulation that I think is inevitable, so I don't talk about the situation if we finish this isolation and open again as before a crash. For example, if we were to disqualify the capital, I think that it would be a risk for the public and the company to take up their own business for other currency. I think it would be a very bad development if the decision was not made by the authorities and considering the consequences of such a decision. I think all of this is very important when it comes to banks, especially because they are the driving force for the money system. Whether it is generally good according to classical economic theory that the state has a bank or not - I understand the view that state property tends to promote corruption, but there are other factors that also matter in the Icelandic economy. Unfortunately, I have no more time to get into it, but thank you for this discussion and encourage it to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u29	Mr. President. I'd like to warn you that overindulging is being sold on assets in the banks and that it is now important to carefully weigh the situation. However, it is stated in the Banky's status report on the proposed sale of the National Bank that the Agency now counts, following evaluation of economic stability criteria, stock prices assessment and assessment of potential buyers' financial resources and state of the Lands Bank, that sale of assets in the bank should be properly initiated, and that if the decision of sales therapy is available in the spring 2016, sales of the latter part of the year must be completed according to the Commission's focus on budget for 2016. In recent cases, Gylfi Magnússon, doctor of economics and former business secretary, says that before any possible sale takes place, we need to answer persistent questions. The role of the State, which may be the owner of a bank, must be thought of, on the other hand, to shape and monitor the system's system of things. Gylfi asks what will be required of the bank's own money. Will there be a requirement for distributing property on a bank? Will there be a requirement for further separation of business banking and investment banking? In addition, questions about a future currency need to be answered and how large the banking system should be before selling property parts. The General has approved a study of the personal development of the banks, but it has not been implemented. The results of the study are aimed at making it easier to develop criteria for selling property items if profitably the state sells its property in the banks. We should take time to answer worthy questions to Gylfi Magnússon, decide how we want to see our banking system in the future, and learn a lesson from our previous sales before the wind comes up. There's no hurry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u30	A respectable president. First, in the discussion we often forget that we pay enormous sums of money. Last year, the amount was higher than all donations made to Iceland's Hospital and Medical Insurance. They're not much lower today. Second of all. European banking system is in the hands of taxpayers. That's our problem. We're based on European rules and there's a built-in insurance system that doesn't work out. Likewise, the general rule, and especially in Iceland, is that banks are way too large, which means that they are extremely systematicly important. Third, please. Every bank went under the global bank crash, certainly the bank banks, no matter how private they were. The reserves went down vertically, and especially now the collapse of the bank hit. They know what they're doing. Senators of the government are well aware of the situation. Most of the time, the poor community bank, an apartment loan fund, has cost us so much that we could use them to build a new hospital. Let's be absolutely clear, the Substitute Fund has all the characteristics of a so-called community bank that people talk about so sly both in council halls and elsewhere. Fourth, it's this way, Mr. Honorable President, that the state bank has been criticized, and I think it's legitimate criticism, for not selling property in an open business. It's not new. It's not the company that we're talking about right now, Borging, during the last term, it was the Housemaker, Plastic, Icelandc Group, Reports, EJS, HugoAX and Vodafone that were sold in this way. And still, a respectable president, is that men now speak digrically and have set up a special institution to monitor this, the government's banking agency. A respectable president. I hope people will realize that if we are going to achieve the results that humans are talking about and even A word of speech, we need to discuss these matters in principle. [[The president calls.]] There was a lot in the matter. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's aged Árnason, who indicated this, I hope that the discussion will be that way in the near future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u31	Mr. President. Hv. A minister of Guðlaugur's people suggested that Þór Þórðarson be able to sell banks that are not owned by the State, on property items that have been highly criticized recently, such as Adoni banks in Shimanum, etc. That's right, we pay a lot of money to grow, and it's just good to have milk cows like the Lands Bank, which has been paying tens of billions of dollars each year for financial gain. They can be used to pay interest and keep the bank, that is, now, the advantage of having a lucrative business, they give of themselves year after year, but men only sell it once. In fact, I think all of this is premature, especially because the government groups clearly need to start talking before they begin delivering it in the council hall that they are about to sell banks. Or do men do nothing about it when the Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee makes such strong arguments as he did here against the sound of this arrangement? What is the situation in the administrative home in these matters? I agree with what. Sigurjónsson The evidence is on all sides that it is premature and unwise to make such an effort under these circumstances. Government leaders should first try to agree on some created object in these materials. For the Bank of Land Bank, it is the largest bank in the country, and it is the only financial agency in very large territories because it has taken over the savings grid. I believe that there are some ideas about community banks or national banks of some kind in connection with the Lands Bank that are highly perturbed in this context. For example, it would be possible for the bank to render proper service in the large territories where he alone is involved in banking. Consequently, the owner, the State, might agree in their tenant policy and be content with it, even if there was a slight decrease in the interest of the bank, against such social and geographic duties. Finally. Is it not better for the State to have a bank, and we make sure that they are responsible and properly fired and not go to the head rather than give them up and be responsible for them if they are to be concluded? [[The president calls.]] Is it not better, then, to have this directly and directly done, to make sure that the financial system is okay rather than to throw it away at regular intervals in the hands of a private citizen, which, as shown by experience, can be replaced by a miraculous period of time, but the State is responsible? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u32	A respectable president. I had some opinions about this matter, but then when I hear all the views, I'm starting to swing like a leaf in the wind. In general, I don't think the state is supposed to have a bank operation, and we have enough money for an apartment loan, I'd say. However, as has been said here, and you may not have to recite it, of course, you need to be careful and learn from history. I think that the media eye because of the personal developments they would make would be such that if men couldn't do something about it, they just couldn't be saved. We have a report on the World Council of Research, where I think it's a very good assessment of the privateization of banks from the turn of the century. I haven't quite understood why we should go back to investigating it, it's a very good assessment that I expect everyone to read on these matters. I trust the secretary of finance to do what I can. Then, of course, it is our senators, the public, and the media to support it. I think this is a good report that came out at the Bank Office and I don't know if I'm any naive in this, but I don't think it's as great as men talk about. We're not talking about selling the whole Lands Bank. It also makes me feel like it's time to go out like a dog. paritaprevir Gulsome Þórðarson said that the state has a bank is no guarantee of professionalism, as was the case when the Lands Bank was selling its stock at City City. The state of the bank, but what? It just happens in front of our nose, and nobody can do anything. That's the rule of order and the law that needs to be nice to you. A respectable president. I don't have any more to say at this point, but I appreciate this discussion, it's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u33	V.E.G. President. Thank you for this special discussion about the possible sales of banks and its sources. It is very important that we, representatives of all classes, have the opportunity to discuss this matter with the highest degree. Secretary of finance, especially in the light of available sources that have been for some time. Then I'm referring to the sources of funds and the plans for sale for less than 30% shares in the Lands Bank, as well as in the context of the discussion related to the transfer of the property of Iceland Bank to the state. It is inevitable to look beyond the time and visualize financial and financial systems and then the role of banks in that context. The banking board, which has a clear role in the sale of financial assets in the state, has already begun preparatory preparations and has published an excellent status report on proposed sales therapies. There are a number of factors to look into and have been torn up during the discussion, including About property and order. In view of key views supporting sales, the fundamental question to whether the State is to be at the head of this operation is to my mind. Such activities are dangerous. I miss that point during the discussion. You cannot assume as much money as you can so far into the infinite, and it is wise to reimburse an investment in order to pay off a committed debt, thus reaching down interest costs. It must be wise in the long run, and it's about now whether we get an acceptable price for these things, but above all, that all the sales process will be open and beneficial. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u34	President. I appreciate this discussion. I don't understand the enthusiasm. There are many Icelanders remembering how they managed to achieve their previous privatization of banks in the invitation of the groups that are going to do it again. And I have not seen that we have built the foundation to do this so that this process can be credible and that it will not directly harm the nation in the long run. The General had a summary of what was being done to enforce the interpretation that was to be learned and ways to restore Iceland to a more solid foundation. The 11th body of the synopsis, which we all agreed on during the last terms, says that the establishment of an independent state agency will be set up to monitor national economic development and as national interests. Clearly, this has not been done. Events were in place when the Ministry of Economic and Business had been established, but now the Office to handle this has been moved under the Ministry of Directorates. In view of what you've been paying attention to these past few days, I have to say, as it is, that what went wrong will be further investigated. We cannot go into this process with these groups now in charge. We can't do that. I will do everything I can to keep it from happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u35	A respectable president. Thank you for the good discussion that has been here. I think our most important project is to decide what we want the financial system to do, including all banks, so we reduce the risk ratio to the system. The answer cannot be that the State has one bank and that it decides to lose money in competition with other banks. We need to decide what the entire financial system should do and make sure that it is designed so that it will not fall back on the public in the country. The current bank account clearly states that the basis for selling this item, now authorized to sell, is the policy for the future holding of the Bank. How far should he be sold down? Will the State Become a majority shareholder? Will it be part - timer? Is it going to sell itself out? A decision must be made. You can't just walk out like the top. Secretary of finance is doing it now. We read about the fact that it is being advertised for advice on selling the item at the same time that the government has not yet decided whether or how to place the government's ownership in the bank for a long time. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson is no alien that can be looked through and pretend he's not here. He is chairman of the Parliament's Economic and Business Committee, the first spokesman for the Agency in this discussion. To be honest, I don't know any Prime Minister in this government who clearly says he wants to sell the Lands Bank. Homework is unappreciative of the highest. Secretary of finance. If he does this by hiring counsellors to sell this object across the bank office's professional advice, he is failing his first professional test. He must first decide how the government will administer the National Bank's ownership for the future, what these classes want. There's nothing to agree with me about that, he must agree with the company in his own government on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u36	Madam President. It's been a great talk. There is, of course, a short time for all views to be broken, but it has been fascinating to get different opinions. I would like to pause first to the things which are said repeatedly, that the last time they sold them, they were all in the sink. To me it is so that in itself it was not the wrong choice to bring the banks back from the possession of the State. What happened, however, was that the order of order proved to be inadequate, and the dangers of new owners were the same as that of all of us elsewhere. Hence, this does not mean that from the conclusion that selling and using the property of the State today was the wrong choice. There are people here saying that prices are not good enough at this time. The Dutch state is selling its parts in ABN AMRO. Britain sold in RBS and Loyds and parts at Northern Rock Bank, the Irish have sold in the Bank of England. In today's state of affairs, the price at which a person is referring is inadequate. I think people should also be careful about getting a much higher price sometime. Besides, I don't understand the discussion that because the bank is making so much money, it's much better to have it. First, consider the underlying factors for profit. Second, before the bank is sold, there is a lot of money to be taken out. And third, big business is being sold at huge prices. So these are arguments that come to mind themselves. I would like to remind people here, senators and others that the menu companies have emphasized that it is important how we handle the stability progress towards the development of Iceland's credit policy. So there's a connection to it here. Finally, a respectable president, regarding the failure of the Bank Office to advise governments. Hear the endemity. [[The president calls.]] We are not calling for counselling. The banking board is trying to rise up, and he intends to fulfill its law - directed role. [[The president calls.]] I can't really believe that the person is making a comment on their advice that will help him to get the advice we have at the Ministry, and then he will be well thought of at the Senate next step.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u37	A respectable president. I think now, in view of the discussion that has taken place here, and the information that has been presented since then. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson, his position as spokesman for the Agency in this discussion, said that the situation may not be a major matter of selling the Bank of America. We have a report from the Banka County of the State that says that the sale should only be started if people have made it up to themselves how they're going to finish it, how much money the state's going to have in the long run. They're advertising for advice today. V.E.G. The secretary of finance dissuades it and says that they are about to recommend the government. This is where things have to be taken in the right order. Is counseling to advise the government how much it should have in the Bank of Lands? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Is there no advice on the bank's sale? That's a different story. It is unnatural to get started on this process contrary to the professional advice of the institution which should be legalized and counseling us and to say that it is absurd to start the sales process unless the government's policy is in place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u38	The president would like to direct members of the Parliament to see that the team on the President's conference board is not intended to continue a discussion that was completed and that the date was set.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u39	Madam President. However, I don't think discussing the political situation that has been exposed here in this discussion is a misuse of Congress. There is a deep - seated disagreement between the administration parties on what to consider in this matter. If so, point out that these are sources, not obligatory regulations. We're allowed to start sales in banks, but we don't have to. Of course, humans can reevaluate it at any time. In terms of filing the estimated sales revenue in the state's accounting, the property will remain in place so that it is not as if something is going away from human resources, although it would affect the planned decision of the budget in 2016. I think that this situation must be taken into consideration and discussed here at the council, at the council hearings, or after the events in this room, it's impossible to make it this way, unless it's the highest level. The minister of finance is determined to take over his head and go ahead, even if he does not have a congregational part or the other government party in that expedition. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u40	V.E.G. President. I think senators will have to use the opportunity in this team, about the President's conference board, to continue discussing this matter, as this has been done. This discussion has shown that the Agency does not support plans for sales for less than 30% share in the Lands Bank. This is indicated in the talk "What Is It? " paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee. A few days ago, Prime Minister said there was no need to sell a share at the National Bank. The government's banking department is making full progress in preparing the sale. This is the point. Because of their repeated statement by the candidates, that they don't support the sale, you doubt that there is a more relevant body for this sale. That's what's being analyzed. The media, in fact, is the same. Bear in mind that he approved a budget for the sale and assumed revenues this year's sales. [[The president calls.]] What's happening here -- which is a very difficult task, I realize - is to try to figure out if the advance group means anything by what's being said or whether it's just a continuation of warning and can say, "It's the best. A minister of finance who's the bad man who's going to sell.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u41	The President wants to make his words less important. Councilmen assume that this point, concerning the President's conference board, is not intended for any material discussion that has been completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u42	A respectable president. I normally like that members of Parliaments disagree, even if they are both members of government groups. I'd like to make a comment again on the length of this conversation. This is where the president's conference manager is in the mood for some material discussion, and it's critical, just in my opinion, but I think it's a call for this special discussion to be longer. I feel that we need some kind of way of moving on with these conversations. Often there will be a special debate that does not directly address the matter of Congress, and it will be very difficult to analyze such matters at council. That's why I think it's very important that we do this. To say, I'm not going into any material discussion about the subject, I think that to fix this kind of thing, we should turn the mood into a more meaningful conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u43	A respectable president. I'm gonna make comments to the President's conference board because this is the part you're supposed to use to make comments to the President's conference board. However, he is abused, as one respected president has noted. I believe it is true that a respectable president will strike them on the bell and there will be a general rule if we are going to continue like this. We've been here a few days, it's the first week, and we knew what it was. Councilmen have already begun their language by abusing this team. [[Up front.]] Everyone in this room knows. [[The point is, you're not in...]] [[Up front.]] If we are to do so, let us not say in public that we want to change and increase the respect of the council. At this point, let us say that all the factors that can be abused in any cause. There are plenty of other opportunities for senators to pass messages, although we do not take this team hostage.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u44	A respectable president. I notice that it seems like this is going to continue a discussion that has just been completed. According to one reference work, something is blurred about the government's plans for property, and this calls for further discussion. I'm just gonna say that and maybe would have been better at the discussion earlier: The government's policy needs to be updated. You're absolutely right. This will be done, and it will determine how this government will support the future establishment of the government's holding of financial interests. I believe that it is accurate at Bank County that it is very important for new parties to have clear lines about what the State intends to do in the near future with its property and that will be relevant for both the Bank of Iceland and the Bank of the Lands. It's been interesting to observe that discussion here. Here are state bankers who want the state to own these companies, like many others, and then those who want the State to get rid of the holding but want to ensure that the assets being sold are handled carefully and properly. [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna set myself up in that group.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u45	The President still wants to repeat his words about this team and how we use it here, my dear. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u46	President. I'd like to agree with the words that happened here. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. It's so important, when we're talking about this big and complicated stuff, that we get to do it so that you get to experience something real coming out of it and you can get your arms around the seminar. I also want to reiterate our members of Porta's desire that committees be open and especially when discussing such matters so that all members of the Parliament can benefit from what they have found, so that they can participate in informed discussion of such complex matters as these are undisputed. I think that I am here completely covering the President's conference board and wish for a president to take advantage of the general opening of committee meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u47	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize insurance. The primary objective of the bill is to increase the protection of insurance and insurance and to ensure stability in financial markets. The bill is based on Directive 2009/138/EC, on the establishment and execution of an insurance company called the ◯Solvency II•EEC Directive, i.e. is so in English. The directive requires full agreement between the Member States on the European Economic Area and therefore there is little room for keeping the regulations in the bill to be different from the directive. Many of the regulations of the bill are already in the current legislation on the basis of a prior commitment directive. There are a number of regulations in the bill, which are based on current legislation, which have come from the EU directive. Most of their decisions involved government efforts to deal with financial disasters that began in the latter part of the past decade and entered the 2010 Law. I will now briefly review the key indicators in the bill, but there are nine factors that I intend to take into account specifically and that are work permit, oversight, administration procedures, publication information, insurance debt, repercussion, bankruptcy, minimum amount and specific measures. Then, first of all, there are a few words on the license. The bill has a higher demand that insurance companies obtain employment permit. On the basis of a work permit application, it must be followed by evidence that currency requirements and requirements for minimum funds are met with data that governance meets the criteria of the bill. Second of all, the surveillance. The rules for calculating the financial value of a health insurance company have been changed and a surveillance procedure will be risky if the bill is legal. A procedure in the EEA will then be coordinated. A more detailed analysis of the weaknesses and risks of insurance companies will be done, and therefore the SEC methods will change. Among other things, information collection will be used to shape a surveillance programme, i.e. the results of its own risk and tolerance assessment of the health insurance company and its evaluation of the ability of the board and the governance. The F.O. will assess specifically and monitor how insurance companies meet government demand, insurance debt, insurance tolerance, investment restrictions, quality, and money currency. The FES shall determine whether the financial status of the insurance company is getting worse and that it should assess the appropriate insurance company to meet potential events or market changes. The bill has increased insurance data requirements and the frequency and extent of data separation will be increased. The bill puts in front of the SEC to set their jobs in a transparent fashion. For example, the FEC is to provide public information on the standards and methods used in monitoring. Third, the administration. The rules in the bill aim to indicate that the management system of a insurance company is efficient and beneficial and that the operating system is expected to be cleared regularly. Then there should be an arrangement that ensures compatibility and the presence of a management plan. Within the management system of a DNS union, there must be a field of risk management, routine security, internal reviews and insurance maths. Fewer insurance companies may be authorized to delegate more than one of these tasks to the same person or department. A joint insurance company should evaluate the responsibilities of those responsible for the work and inform the responsible for the SEC that may be appropriate for them or those in charge and even the director at any given time. The FES shall have access to all the excluded insurance activities and should be informed before the important work is dispensed. Fourth, the release of information. There is an increasing demand for official publication in the bill. Among other things, in order to ensure market transparency, insurance companies will report annual legal and financial records. The results of minimum budget should be announced quarterly to the FME and, in addition, the insurance company should provide information on their own initiatives when major events impact public information. Fifth, the insurance debt. Life insurance debt is the commitment of a insurance company to insurance policy. The insurance will be at any given time unless the amount of money that a insurance company has to pay if its insurance insurance bond was moved to another insurance company in short notice. The rules on insurance statistics and statistical methods responsible for the calculation of insurance debt have been agreed on in the EEA to facilitate comparison and support transparency. If the bill is legalized, insurance companies will have internal processes and tools to ensure that data used to assess insurance debt are appropriate, complete and accurate. In that case, a insurance company will be able to demonstrate to the UN that the sum of its insurance insurance debt is properly determined and that the statistical data involved are sufficient. If the estimate of insurance debt is inadequate, the UN may require an increase in the amount of insurance money you owe. Sixth, on bankruptcy. To face unexpected events that are not expected in insurance debt, a insurance company must have the financial resources available. Most of the time, the bank's amount is equal to its own money, depending on the reports of deductions. In the bill, the perpetuity is based on established graftiles, which are stratified by the quality of three subsidies. The F.O.G. monitors the right category of insurance companies. All the terms in the bill on the insurance insurance insurance insurance insurance insurance insurance insurance policy are far more detailed than in the current legislation. 7th of the requirement to pay. The bill has two budget requirements that need to be met. On the one hand, it is the currency that covers all the measurable risks of insurance companies. The bill suggests a framework of how it is determined, but further implementation will be set up in Regulation. The insurance company should calculate this requirement at least once a year, but they need constant monitoring. However, that is the requirement for minimum funds, which is the eighth joint I am going to trace here. A minimum amount of money may be worth only less than a nuclear insurance company's annual budget. The work permit of the insurance company shall be canceled if the value of its currency falls below minimum budget and the partner cannot correct his budget in a short period of time, which if the value of the remuneration goes below the minimum budget and there is no way to correct the sum at a short time, the license of the insurance company is canceled according to the bill. The minimum amount of money should be determined at least quarterly. Nine, I'd like to discuss only some special arrangements, so to speak. Among the more recent recommendations in the bill, a insurance company should have a system that allows them to detect a worsening financial status and should be informed immediately by the Commission if there is a risk of inflation or minimum budget requirements. The F.O. will be able to limit or prohibit the provision of a insurance company on its property and money if it fails to meet the claims of insurance. The bill suggests that a insurance company that doesn't satisfy a currency requirement or that this can happen within three months should be informed of that status. In this case, monitoring can allow the insurance company to delay up to nine months in order to establish a financial restoration programme. The same announcement is suggested if a insurance company insists on not satisfying minimum budget. The recycling programme will then not be allowed to take longer than three months, and the SEC will have the authority to restrict or ban the activities of the society on its resources and to publish new insurance certificates during this time. If refinance fails, the Commission should cancel the Community's license. A respectable president. This bill is made up by a committee appointed by the Ministry, the F.A.S., as well as insurance companies and lawyers from insurance companies. The main impact of the bill on insurance companies, if legal, is that they need to promote their internal work and reorganize, on the one hand, to have information available to cut-offs and new reports expected by the bill, in order to comply with the rules of planning and management, where new and more detailed rules are implemented. If the bill is legal, it will greatly improve the protection of insurance companies and adventurers as well as contribute to a more stable financial market. The entire range around the DNS will be enhanced by this bill, with rules being more detailed and the basis for the operation of the DNS to be tailored to the risks it will face. Another impact of the bill is that environmental insurance regulations in this country will be consistent with the EEA regulations and the cooperation and monitoring of the region will thus be simpler and more economic. I think it's important that the bill succeeds to support the activities of insurance companies in this country. It is important that consumers have access to the information on the health insurance business and that it is clear that the methods of the UN are used to contribute to the adequate monitoring of insurance companies at all times. Such transparency increases credibility in the insurance market and makes it more stable in the eyes of consumers. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u48	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a synonym for understanding the validation of a domestic agreement on the Asian Investment Bank. Iceland sought to be among founders at the bank in March. Following a government decision. After the negotiations that Iceland actively participated in, the bank stock documents were formally signed by founders on June 29, 2015, in Beijing, including Iceland. The bank then formally began in January following a founding meeting held on January 16th. but the secretary of finance attended the meeting for Iceland. A respectable president. The Asianinvestment bank is a multinational development bank that will support measures to promote infrastructure in Asia and thereby contribute to economic growth and sustainable economic and social development in the continent. Will especially be considered to be the needs of the poorest countries in the region. There is a great need for long - term funding for building timber, such as transport, energy systems, and communication systems, and it is generally believed that the subject is of such magnitude that banks such as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank do not have enough body size alone to handle such projects. According to this, the bank is not founded on the head of other multinational evolutionary banks. On the contrary, the bank's activities will support the activities of those who are already building structures in this part of the world. Close cooperation with other international and two - sided development agencies is expected to address existing challenges. The bank's work will thus contribute to the development of new world goals for sustainable development in the countries of Asia. The 9th world goal is to develop strong infrastructure, to promote sustainable industrialization for all, and to foster innovation. In addition, the bank in my opinion can play an important role in ensuring access to safe and sustainable energy in line with the world target of No. 7. A respectable president. Iceland's Member States to the bank will further strengthen the communications between Iceland and Asia and support new growth barriers in business areas. It can mean more opportunities for Icelandic business life in Asia as well as for making Iceland visible in this largest growing area of the world. Founding that the bank will also give Iceland a clear advantage, which includes direct access to negotiations across the global legal and legal framework of the bank, its business and its priorities, thus ensuring that Icelandic interests are taken into account at the outset. The bank's total stock will be worth 100 billion dollars and total debt to Iceland will be about 17.6 billion. a dollar or 0.019% of a stock. This corresponds to about 2,3 billion dollars. But Iceland's vote will be much more a founder or more than fifteen times compared to the stock market. The largest part of commitment will be so-called stock money, but only one fifth of the budget will be paid to the bank in five equally paid in the years to come. Has financial and economic minister already obtained the approval of the Generals to handle the overall commitments of part of Iceland under budget 2015. Funds for 2016 also provided sources for payment on the first deposit. I'd like to state that the OECD, Dia, developing teamwork committee, will in the months that will determine if the bank's budget will be fully supported by the official development programme, ODA. Is that likely to happen, but many European countries have discussed this. A respectable president. As indicated in comments to the synonym, comparable arrangements will be made on the control of the bank and other international financial institutions. The bank's highest government will become a board of banking, which will be appointed representatives of the Member States. The Board of Banks will vote for the administration of the bank as well as for his President. In that case, the Member States will form a prime example called the nomad of the bank's administration. There will be 12 of them, nine within Asia, and three outside Asia. Iceland is expected to be part of a prime example among other countries in the north, except for Finland, as well as Britain, Poland, and Switzerland. Iceland is going to have a way of active participation in the bank management work, and thus can monitor the progress of projects and effectiveness in a systematic way. Then Iceland will have a subsidiary in the management of the 20222/2024, in line with the internal organization of the district and thus can directly influence the bank's future activities. Our experience with the World Bank is similar to that of a good person. A respectable president. The development of recent years and prospects shows increasing importance in the international context of Asia. Member that the Asian Investors Bank will include an opportunity for Iceland to influence the development ahead. As a bank member from the beginning, we can speak for his interests at important times in the bank's work, when emphasis and policy will be defined. This could be an opportunity for a business life, especially for the development of clean energy in the area. A respectable president. I suggest that this agreement be followed by the discussion referred to a further discussion. ... andwhat. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u49	Madam President. There are a few questions I would like to direct to the highest level. Secretary of State on this proposal. I would have felt more convenient that we had been doing this council agreement before a permit was made. In view of the fact that the government agreed to make this decision for us, I ask the highest degree. Secretary of state what has taken the matter into this council? It was not distributed until December. In the paper and in a talk at the highest. According to Ministers, the OECD Development Committee will evaluate whether Iceland's establishment into this is a contribution to development cooperation. If I did, I'll ask the highest. Minister: Will this, then, be added to our contributions for developing cooperation? Because I read the bank's registration documents, I see no better than the fact that this is a very standard banking operation, at least In some ways. Our aims simply speak of investments in the interior, not specifically what. As a matter of sustainable economy, sustainable development is not defined in these areas, nor does it mention whether investments should help combat climate change, for example. At one point, social developments are mentioned. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on his vision of this. The DAC doesn't have a decision yet but it looks at the top. A minister is primarily to be a teamwork of development, or he looks to the highest degree. A minister prefers this as an investment opportunity? The rationalization of the proposal is primarily a growing economy, huge investments ahead, and it is important to be a part of that opportunity. I think it's a little important that we at the Council discuss whether we're here talking about a contribution to development or whether we're looking at it as an investment in some form of international business opportunity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u50	A respectable president. You might wonder, " Would it have been more convenient to have a different order of how the matter would fit into the council? ' However, it is quite clear that the Council has given authority, first of all, to financial aid and so forth, and has thus had the opportunity to address the matter. The reason for the controversation proposal is that it has simply been a speed of action, while there is a problem with obtaining information and such. We wanted to do this carefully and carefully, and as a result, we are later in line with the Senate arrangement, that is absolutely correct. There is a chance that contributions to the bank can be counted as a means of development, that is correct. This has not been resolved, however, as shown in my earlier story. Of course, this is also true of the case in the case of men who consider these institutions to be developing cooperation. Is the bank an investment bank primarily, or is it a developing bank? I believe that he is closer to being an investment bank than an investment bank. That is because of the way humans fulfill their assignments. As I mentioned earlier, he supports some of the world goals, at least One or two of them, if we simply don't dive deep into things. There is a full need to strengthen the infrastructure in Asia, both when we go there and when we watch the news and other developments there. The power system, the access to energy, etc. It is clear that there is a full need for projects, as the bank is about to focus on. He will have a similar arrangement for his activities and the World Bank, as mentioned in my history. For example, the World Bank is working very closely on projects related to development, and we Icelanders have put great emphasis on renewing energy and using such knowledge as geity.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u51	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. If it's true that the FAC decision that we find within a few weeks is that contributions to this bank or this investment are considered to be developing cooperation, I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. Minister if it is not absolutely clear that there will be a clean addition to Iceland's development cooperation contributions and will not be used to further reduce them. Then I'm naturally referring to the rate, not to the quarter. However, I would like to ask the highest. Ministers about one because I simply don't know it well enough. For example, we have a bank called Asia Development Bank, and membership in the Asian Investors Bank is offered to those who are part of the Development Bank of Asia. The highest. A minister explained to me exactly the difference between the Asian Development Bank and Asia's Investors Bank? The stock documents are signed in Beijing as I please on the report. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary if the Chinese are leading in this cooperation. V.E.G. A minister mentioned the need for the investment in electronic energy systems and such things in Asia, and I ask if there are areas that are below them rather than others. Is there then some special geographic object in the participants, i.e. are the Chinese primarily, or are very strong members in other Asian areas involved? I'm asking about the political situation inside the bank and who's in charge of it. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of what he sees in his mind the potential benefits of the Icelanders from participating in the bank. Could he at this very brief time go over the opportunities he sees in the anticipated Iceland of becoming a member of the United States?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u52	A respectable president. So I first answer the difference between this bank and the evolution bank, he may not be so great at first sight. However, the projects that this new agency is working on are more complicated by certain things than the developing bank, perhaps the difference most. So it's a similar approach to the projects. I think they'll strengthen each other, at least that's the way we see them. With regard to FAC and whether this is a general supplement, I'd say this is going to be an additional one, but this is not going to interfere with the contributions we contribute to the seminary today. I don't think anyone's gonna think of it. Regarding the central center, it is true that the Chinese are responsible for this, while all Asia is under when it comes to the infrastructure and the projects. We know, for example, that there is already an Icelandic company, or at least an Icelandic company, on a field of geothermal work in China, Indonesia, in the Philippines, possibly in Vietnam, and in other places. All of this is a case in which we are working to strengthen the core, to find renewable energy, and especially at the same time an opportunity to strengthen an electrical system that is necessary. Transport is different and then access to what we think, clean water, etc. There's plenty of work to be done. They don't need it. And for Icelandic people, there's clearly an opportunity to participate. I saw this on my journey to parts of Asia earlier in the fall, where they saw opportunities for such projects there. [[Up front.]] There may be a participation in this bank account for that, i.e. that when we come up with ideas that a project can be financed by the bank. I don't think I have time for everything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u53	A respectable president. We agree to the Asian Investors Bank. As noted, in 2015 the Ministry of finance was provided with financial funding to oblige state funds about 2.3 billion because of the purchase of the Asian Investment Bank. In a Senate hearing, I strongly objected to this arrangement, for its benefits are very uncertain, but in addition to its budget, the bank insists that he and his employees be granted special benefits and legal and supervision. It is hard to see that such an exception can be given without the permission of the Generals, and it has not yet been granted. I will argue that it will be granted. The field of this bank is to be a multinational investment bank to lend to build up the interiors of Asia and the island alone, and the bank's headquarters will be in China. It has been discussed here whether this may be considered a development aid, our contribution to the bank. I think everyone here realizes that the rise in Asia and prosperity is far higher in this country than in the countries suffering severe poverty and poverty. I think if we want to contribute more to development, we should direct it to where it needs more. Three hundred and three billion could be extremely comfortable for starving children, but it will not matter to those structures. We're not going to make any difference in the bank, but we're going to feel this total debt in our economy. That's 2.3 billion. True, only a fifth of the commitment is paid in money, but the rest can be called at any time. The share of Iceland at the bank will be less than 0.3% and Iceland will not be represented in the bank council nor in the bank's managership will have little or no effect on bank policy and will run blind with the politics that will be fired by the bank, which will be 26% controlled by the Chinese. The Ministry believes that participation in the bank will promote good relations between Iceland and Asia. I think there are a lot of other ways more direct and capable of doing this than being owner of a tiny part of this bank. As for Iceland to be visible in Asia, I think it takes a lot of binoculars to see Iceland from Asia, but if you can arrange it by this investment, it's a big adventure. To Iceland's involvement could give rise to greater opportunities for commercial life in Asia - do you hope to do so? What companies have requested that the government fund be mortgaged $2.3 billion so that they will be better equipped to sell their solutions abroad, in Asia? My experience is that if this technology fails to compare with what is best, both quality and price, it will not be purchased. If you read the approved bank we are considering, it is one of the conditions of the bank for financiers that the solution no one can be limited to the one involved in these projects. It is necessary to buy what is best and most practical at any given time. Then, of course, Icelandic companies will have a chance, if they have the best and most practical solution. It will not be considered whether we have 0.3% in the bank. Therefore, from time to time, this will have some effect on the benefits of Icelandic or Icelandic taxpayers, or they will be of any importance in the world. I think it's very critical. It's different. In answer to me, a minister of finance felt that this investment would form property, sell property, and that there would be all signs that by participating in the bank institution and being a founder, people could see to it that the value of investments would grow, and so on. But if you read the agreement, it turns out you can't sell the stocks in the bank. You can't go out there and sell them out on the market. You can cash them out at the bank at a recorded price. Then you read in magazines dealing with this bank and general political that the bank's role is to be a community bank. It's a bank on the other side of the world, a community bank that doesn't have the job of making profits. Stocks in the bank won't be good sale. It would be nice to get your money back without a loss. I don't understand that at the same time and you can't listen to the idea of turning the Lands Bank into a community bank lies angry at buying a share in a community bank on the other side of the world, a state bank owned by some government fund. I don't understand. Are we going to accept this? I have to say, when this warrant was given for financial aid, I spoke to many members of the council, and they said it was a warrant, and I don't know if it would be new. This was exactly what was to be considered and all the benefits and sources that are being given to the bank. If we look at the sources and read them carefully, we have agreed that the bank does not pay taxes, neither his employees nor full - time counselors. Fifty-one, par. 51. He'll get his ass kicked. Thirty-three. Having an account at the Penitentiary. No one has to investigate the bank's activities at the time. Forty-seven. No holding the bank's property at hand. Forty-seven. No stopping bank transfers. Twenty-niner. Are we about to allow this to be a bank, a multinational organization that we have no involvement with, and that has no impact on our policy, that we must have no control over? There is still a capitalist in the country that the whole nation has to put on, but this bank will not have to suffer them. He can move in here money, in and out at will. This is a far - reaching record that will not be granted without our consent. But if it is granted, this bank is authorized to contribute funds to and from the country without any support. The origin and purpose of the capital transport cannot be explored or imposed on any tax of any kind. Why should Iceland give any body of such legal rights to any body of such rights? That's the question. To justify such an exception, there must be great social interests at stake. Are they under here? That's very vague. More questions arise. Why is Iceland's contribution thirty-fold greater than Portugal than the population? Why are only 50 of the 200 members of the United Nations involved in this bank? Why does the United States, Canada, Mexico, Japan, Taiwan, Argentina, Morocco, and other countries not want to join? Why should Icelandic taxpayers set aside $2.3 billion in currency to support the Icelandic business in Asia, a company that we do not know who are and clearly show that we cannot be happy if we stake this money? Has any Icelandic company ever pressured into this bank? I haven't heard of it. I hope the committee involved in this matter will discuss this. What are these companies? Hopefully, the bank will play an important role in the future construction of Asian structures, but the results will depend on whether or not Iceland will be involved. This is not a developing bank that will help starving children. If there is an added need for development, let us direct it to the point where the distress is most intense. It is difficult to see that this membership will have something to say for an Icelandic job life. Everything that's been seen here is a motif. The other is clearly clear that $2.3 billion is a lot of money that could contribute to more important projects here, and Iceland needs to be very careful about providing access to law, tax and observation to institutions where Iceland has no influence.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u54	Madam President. I rejoice that I have the opportunity to discuss this matter materially, not just in the general financial matters. I've said I don't feel so good when decisions are being made primarily through budgets and budgets. This criticism focuses primarily on the form. I find this discussion very interesting and our goals. I have the feeling that there are several different ways in which people see goals involved in this bank. Of course, Iceland is a participants in international banking institutions whose CV differs if we can put it that way. I'm not saying that this bank will necessarily be worse than any other international bank. It was interesting to read a discussion about the leading element of the establishment of this bank. I asked you before the time came. Minister on the difference between this bank and existing Asian Development Bank. V.E.G. One minister said that there may not be a major difference between the content of these banking institutions, the subjects being really somewhat similar. I think you're right. However, based on what you can read from those who have discussed this international issue, the institution of this bank seems to be primarily concerned with strengthening Chinese interests in the economy, since Japan has had a prominent position in the Asian Development Bank. This is a time to strengthen the position of certain countries. There's more to it than that. Of course, that is why the United States has been highly critical of this, since they believe that their power through the World Bank is reduced as soon as this bank arrives. We see a great struggle for power in the world's economic system. We see another development bank, the New Development Bank, where Brazil, India, Russia, China and South Africa come together. They're moving quite a bit of the world's financial and economic struggle into the form where countries come together and band together to strengthen their positions. It has been observed that this decision has been made by means of financial resources, and a financial minister has gone to Asia and signed. I feel that people speak here in different ways. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs has stressed the development program. I feel that other voices have been heard, in particular, to the suspected opportunities of Icelandic companies through this, that this is primarily about Iceland's interests in this matter. But what I'm worried about is what you can read out of your original contract, if we choose to view this as a positive step in developing cooperation. I hope so. The matter will be handled properly by a foreign - language committee in their discussion of the matter. I don't think it really points that way. Although there is a word such as sustainable social development, which I mentioned earlier in a short answer, you cannot read from this stock contract any change, e.g. with regard to the real environment. I've also studied a few discussions in that field, and people are very concerned that it will not necessarily be there to look at climate change specifically, because I haven't seen them, I'm going to read it better in this stock deal, which should be the headache of all the social banking institutions that we're participating in right now. We are coming out of history's warmest year since the beginning of the measurements, and 2016 is predicted to be even warmer. After the Paris Summit, everyone should deal with how we can make the whole system work toward this goal. Since I have studied this matter, it is a concern that while the above talk is about sustainability, there are no realistic objectives to set investments in achieving the climate goals. If Iceland is going to be the founder of this bank and it's actually become the one who's going to take part in it and have some agent then Iceland should be talking about climate goals being part of the stock deal. Obviously, nothing will happen unless someone expresses such views. Otherwise, nothing happens. If we look at the situation in China and what's been going on there about industrial development and other things, I think there's a great need that there will be a clearer goal for combating climate change. There we have seen a large investment that has not really helped that development. I believe we are looking primarily at international political issues that support their position in the political international context. I think it's normal for us to discuss it on the basis of where we'd like to sit down and put ourselves on a booth in that regard. I have followed this discussion, and I know that other northern countries and European countries have decided to participate in this, especially because they believe that there is a great growth ahead of them and provide an investment opportunity for them. At least I think it's important that in the discussions of the State Department, the difference between Iceland and Iceland is about to create a better opportunity for companies - but like what. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónjarðsson mentioned earlier is not necessarily involved in this bank, and it needs to be discussed with the Foreign Affairs Committee - or if we consider this to be a contribution to development cooperation, and we really believe that adequate arrangements in the foundation agreement are valid. I have to say, after the first round, I don't think so. I don't see that this bank should work on social and environmental objectives, as if we were going to make sure that Asia would actually be sustainable and truthful and would not overdo the earth's resources for a long time. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I'm going to present this concern in a previous discussion, hoping that these views will be taken into consideration. State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u55	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 115/215, change of XIII. Annex on transport and XIX. Annex on consumer protection at the EEA Convention, including the National Competent Regulation for passenger rights in group vehicles. The protocol aims to improve the rights and the protection of passengers in pack cars to the level of rights and consumer protection of airline passengers and passengers at sea. The rules take the first place for passengers on planned trips, which are at least 250 miles [250 km] away. The regulations of the Regulation shall ensure adequate assistance and compensation for passengers if there is a delay. Help for disabled and motorised vehicles is then requested at groups of vehicles and on board groups of vehicles. A minimum set of information guidelines for passengers on their rights and travel information, on their complaint services and on their own independent organisations in each Member State to comply with the Regulation. The implementation of the Regulation calls for legal adjustments in the country and is assumed to be the highest. Minister of Internal Affairs will present the bill for public transport legislation during the current council. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a national legal adjustment, it is taken under controlled alert. Therefore, the General approval of the changes in the EEA agreements in the decision-making process is requested so that the government can be removed in advance. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u56	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 116/2015 on the change in XIII. Annex to the EEA transport agreement and enter the contract of the regulations and rights of passengers traveling at sea. The objective of the Regulation is that the rights of passengers on sea and sea routes will be comparable to the rights of an airliner and a passenger on the land. The design set the rules for transporting by sea or by boating aqueducts in terms of the prohibition against segregation of passengers in terms of transport conditions and the prohibition on discrimination between disabled and motorists. The responsibility of the operator in the event of an accident, availability of disabled persons and persons with impaired mobility, passenger rights and duties when there is a disturbance in travel time, information operator, and speed of hearing treatment in connection with violations of the passenger's rights. It includes all types of ships that are responsible for commercial transport in seawaters and coastal lakes. The implementation of the Regulation calls for legal adjustments in the country and is assumed to be the highest. Minister of the I.R. will present a bill for changes in shipping laws during the current council. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a legal adjustment in this country, it was taken under administrative notice. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in which the decision takes place so that the government will be removed foreordained. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u57	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 188/2015 on the change in XIII. The addition of the EEA Convention on Transportation and entering the Convention Directive for pollution originating on ships and induction of violations. The directive changes the older directive so that further emphasis is put on violating the rules of pollution of the ocean from ships' penalties under penal or special law. Such responsibility for dealing with individuals is also to be taken into account as responsible for legal matters involved. The demands of penalties are general criminal conditions, intent, or gross inadequacy, as well as a lack of quality of water. It is not expected to be punished for minor fractures that do not reduce quality of water, but it is expected that incessant violations such as these will lead to penalties. The directive does not include conditions for application, and its jurisdiction depends on the laws of each State on its own. The directive does not state the high degree of fines or the length of prison punishment for the particular offense, but only what sort of environmental violations should be considered guilty, who should bear the criminal responsibility, and what kind of violation should be considered to be punished. The implementation of the Regulation calls for legal adjustments in the country and is assumed to be the highest. Environment and resource administrators provide the bill for changing the defence laws against pollution of the seas and coastal areas of the current council. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a legal adjustment in this country, it was taken under administrative notice. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u58	A respectable president. By the Parliamentary resolution of this decision, the Council is requested to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of a direct decision. 191/2015 of the change in XX. Annex to the EEA Convention on Environment and enter the Convention Directive for environmental protection by judicial regulations. The directive states that judicial decisions should be used to provide more effective protection for the environment. In this way, it should be ensured that violations are effective in accordance with the fracture and have a warning effect and that certain practices are done in a judicial manner when they are not in accordance with law and regulations and are committed deliberately or wonderfully unscrupulously. According to the directive, there are not only illegal acts of penalties but also certain neglects. The directive does not state the high degree of fines or the length of prison punishment involved in the matter of violations, only what kind of environmental violations should be punished, who should bear the criminal responsibility, and what kind of participation in the offense is punishable. The implementation of the Regulation calls for legal adjustments in the country and is assumed to be the highest. Environment and resource administrators provide the bill for changes in commitment and pollution laws for the current council. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a legal adjustment in this country, it was taken under administrative notice. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in which the decision takes place so that the government will be removed foreordained. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u59	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 195/2015, about the change in XX. Annex to the EEA Convention on Environment, including the Treaty Directive for electronic waste. The directive is a re-version of the earlier regulations for electronic and electronic waste introduced here on the country. The directive has several new indicators such as re-programming electrical and electronic systems, new targets for collection of electrical and electronic wastes and recycling. This means that waste materials collected are treated appropriately and special monitoring of the exported waste is carried out. The directive also includes additional requirements for registration in the manufacturer's and import systems. The implementation of the Regulation calls for legal adjustments in the country and is assumed to be the highest. Environment and resource administrators provide the bill for changing waste management legislation on the current council. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a legal adjustment in this country, it was taken under administrative notice. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u60	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 3/2006, on the basis of annual accounts, with subsequent changes, on the basis of thawing. 730, case No. 456. With this bill, the main focus is on streamlining jobs in the country, reducing the costs of the smallest partners and improving their business environment. As the bill was prepared, the articles of the law were reviewed, examined in the light of the potential simplicity, and the tips on what might be considered better. Is this in line with the government's policy of reevaluating the regular work of the economy with its simple and more efficient effectiveness in considering, reducing unnecessary writing and simple contact with public agencies while the cost is being held down. It also contains the bill introduced by the European Union Directive, which deals with the annual accounts of certain types of partners and leaves the values of the older annual requirements for the European Union. The aim of the directive is, among other things, to reduce the costs of SMEs and to improve their business environment. A working group with the head of the Ministry worked on the bill. In the work team, representatives from the annual bill, the FEC, a member of a legal accountant's team, and a Society of accounting firms. Last September, stakeholders were offered an open presentation meeting in which the bill was introduced and then placed on the Ministry Homepage and requested reviews. A total of 11 reports were received, and changes were made in the bill letters that were taken into account by some of the comments received. For example, the main indicator of the bill is that it presents a new size category of members. A new category, called micro-organism, is a society that does not exceed at least two of the following factors: to have 20 billion. K. in the balance balance sheet, 40 million. K. in the pure well - being, and on average, three - year - olds. Other categories are small, medium-sized enterprises and large societies, but they are the same size as in Europe. A team of micromates, and this attracts more than 80% of all Icelandic partners, and therefore the bill will have a broad range of impact to simple commercial life. These partners will be permitted to submit a simple version of their annual accounts to the annual accounts based on the company's tax returns. At the same time, representatives of the Community can make tax returns choose to agree that key numbers from the company's tax returns will be submitted a annual bill as a valid due for publication. We've been working on this for some time in good cooperation with the head of state taxation under the job vow ◯ Where it's supposed to be done in the simplest electronic way and that we're going to make a tax returns on the 2016 account year, we're going to have the push button in place. I allow me to say here that this will have as much influence on simplicity and increased efficiency as when taximmunications of individuals and companies were done electronically and facilitated by much of the management sector. Such a bill does not have to be reviewed or reviewed by an observer, and it does not need to be accompanied by a government report. This simple understanding of about 80% of Iceland's partners reduces the administrative cost of these partners. It may also be expected that more companies will submit annual accounts at the appropriate time with this arrangement, which will improve the quality of the annual accounts. This is also an opportunity for the Rapporteur to concentrate on the results of larger partners. The directive's requirement is that the simplicity for micro-organists is a preferred option and it is left to the EEA to decide whether and how they want to use simple ones in particular for these very least of Europe's societies. When these sizes were set by the European Union by the directive, it was estimated that about 75% of European partners fell below the limits of the directive. The Ministry's work force I mentioned earlier considered these boundaries in view of the country's market. If used entirely the same criteria as stated in the directive, about 90% of Icelandic partners would agree with the definition of being an enterprise. It was assessed by the Committee that between 75% and 90% the size limit should be covered by 80%, which is similar to that of other countries in the North. Of course, where this line should lie may be considered, and I would like to encourage some. The Economic and Business Committee to review it and to determine if change should be made in the market. My decision was to agree on this matter by the committee and to make sure that this change is made. According to legislation on accounting, balance between the interests of the recipient of accounts and the interests of associates must be ensured, taking into account that the obligation to report is not unduly burdensome. According to the bill, a cut-off of information has been made in the annual account of the small partners and it is not required that small companies publish their annual budgets. Also small kits are the exception of the obligation to create a kit. A respectable president. In addition, the bill suggests changes in the experience of the past few years, and the individual aspects are further defined. These include the transformation of Article 19. The law of the law, which includes the transfer of your own items to reduce total share money. According to this, having personal possessions is forbidden, since they are not owned in themselves, but they are merely a change in the financial structure of the society. Liberation of regulations is also being taken at 110th. The law that partner enterprises and communities should submit their annual reports of name, address, partner form and sector at the same time as sending it for the first time published data. This information is now listed in the firm file saved from the company file of the head of the company and is therefore not considered to be necessary. The bill also involves the implementation of the EU directive for the release of certain big partners and the partnerships of economic and multiplicity information. In accordance with the Directive, large companies with 500 employees or more should be informed about their impact on environment and society than its aim is to increase transparency in companies and improve their performance in environmental and social matters. It is suggested, back to the work force's suggestion, that the law covers large communities in this country with 250 or more in accordance with national legislation around us, of which about 90 societies of that magnitude are of that magnitude in Iceland. This is another thing I'm waiting for. A financial and business committee should take a specific look at their treatment whether the limit of size should be determined by the directive or the size category proposed by the working group and is written in the bill. Other changes in the bill aim to increase the market in the business, including tracking social security and adding annual accounts. In this regard, the change in 1st paragraph is proposed. The law to ensure that all enterprises that are under the law on annual accounts will return annual bills to their annual accounts, whether they are employed or not. At the same time, it is suggested that the licenses of the annual bill be reinforced so that the process of moving forward on annual accounts takes less time and is simpler than has been performed. Furthermore, it is suggested that the cut-off procedure for broken partners has not been submitted annually. At the same time, it is suggested that the license to demand a wearout be submitted to the annual bill, which is now a minister's authority. The objective of these changes is that the annual bill will reflect better than today the reality of a modern commercial life in which it is resorting to what has been called the so-called uninhabited places of the registry for years, although there is no activity or being a member of that partner. Moreover, the laws of the law were reviewed, and the changes were made to the contrary. First, these include changes to simplicity in the pressures of management guilty enterprises, in order to account for annual accounts or inassibility for official publication within the required amount of time, or to provide insufficient information or explanations of the annual bill or balance sheet. It is suggested that each year's bill be sent a letter requiring reform and also placed on the administrative board a sum of 600 yous. K. If the organisation then provides adequate data within 30 days, a annual bill should be submitted to the level of fines by 90%. The divorce rate within two months reduces the guilt by 60% and within 3 months by 40%. If none is performed after eight months, the annual bill should be replaced by the company's farm. In addition, in view of the clarity of penalties, the penalty law is specific, i.e. For what offense is the punishment and the severity of that punishment? Then the bill suggests less changes that result from a general review of the law, changes that result from the directive, and indications of what might be done better. Mr. President. With this bill, we're simplifying our work environment and reducing the cost of about 80% of the country's enterprises. We are also making the market more beneficial by bringing in annual accounts and cleaning up the market of non-active partners. This will help us to get a better picture of the market, which is a basis for creating an attack on the social security network that has been widely discussed and that is a serious problem in the economy. Mr. President. After these discussions, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u61	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I wanted to ask specifically about what she mentioned, and it is shown on page 18. 25 in the report, which are the changes that are said to help prevent social security. Social security has been very much under discussion, and many have become long - forgotten after the highest standard bill. Minister on specific measures to prevent this. First of all, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister will be able to explain to us the changes suggested in the submission of annual bills to dead companions, as it is said. How will this change work to counteract social security? I'd love to if it was the highest. A minister might oversee it in detail. V.E.G. Minister has also said that this bill is necessary for other changes to be made, as I understood it. It can correct me if it's a wrong idea that this bill has to become a law before a bill can be submitted about other changes to resist social security. I'd like to ask why that is, if that's the right understanding for me. Finally: When will we expect a bill to counteract social security? I think we can all unite in the fact that it is totally unacceptable to still be seen in the good will that has been observed by politicians on the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u62	A respectable president. What is important in the fight against social security, which I agree with. A senator is an evil that all of us, no matter where we are, debates that need to be uprooted, is to watch out for a certain balance. We do not want to bring up burdensome measures that aim to uproot a problem that is only in a part of those who run a business but will take on all the others as well as those who have an honorable and successful business anywhere in the world. When we started this work, we found that we did not have enough information about people doing this work that has been called a landmark, but we do not exist in the letter of the Law. If there was something called a social security number, we would all be united in banning it. But social security is a factor when a person is running a job successfully to leave a commitment, whether they are tax commitments or debt to suppliers, and to set up another company free of all causes and to have the competitiveness of it. This bill, I've said, is an essential prerogative because that's where we're cleaning up the record and checking Iceland's injured company. We'll see better which company is in business. We're cleaning out the list of non-active enterprises and often the enterprises which are used in order to take over a new business. The action offered to cope with the problems that follow can be very burdensome if they take hold of all the others. [[The president calls.]] At the same time we want to get these operators, we don't want to undermine infrastructure and vegetation and innovation in society. [[The president calls.]] It's part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u63	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer to this bill. I'd like to reiterate my question. When do we expect other proposals to change the social security laws or the activities at the highest level? A minister described where debts were just left in the swellingers? There's been ideas, and I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on her view of them, that it would simply be possible to set rules here to further examine the qualifications of corporate guardians. If I recall correctly, for example, the chairman of the Council's Economic Committee has, well. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónnsson was talking about these ideas. I don't see the need to be a burden in itself because of the utmost. A minister emphasizes that it is simple. First and foremost, I want to emphasize the clearness of the principle. It may be simple, but it must be clear and reach the intended goals. As the situation is now, we will not reach our declared target of resisting social security. Would a rule that aim to measure the properness of the executives of an enterprise, as has been in the discussion, be so burdensome? I wonder, sometimes, when I hear stories about companies that put a black mark on everyone else and go between them and leave a staged earth behind. In fact, consumers who are often the victims of these activities have no chance of learning the history of these enterprises, which should still be available. It is very burdensome for honest people who are engaged in a business venture to see that this black shadow falls on their company too while we do not take decisive action against social security. I think that when we discuss burdensome measures, it can actually be a very positive step for the job in Iceland to get targeted actions against the social security network that repulsor problems overall, although most people do not.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u64	A respectable president. I agree with you completely. This is about the fact that this practice cannot be banned by simple legislation. Rather, it is something that all of us need to take part in changing. Hv. A senator mentioned that information cannot be traced. It'll make it better. This is where we're adding a year's tab. Here, suppliers, creditors, and others can simply get information. Once we get the company file and the annual bill into an electronic form, it will be simple for creditors or supply to find information. Of course, we now need to ask ourselves, " How can these activities take place? ' Why? You hear stories that the others and these have run a lot of companies out of business. Why do these individuals always receive a loan? Why do these people always sell goods on credit and never get paid? This feels completely incomprehensible to me. For example, the tools we can use are setting up a partner file on the Internet, as has been done in Denmark for a little while, it's complicated, so you can always observe. The file is alive. There is also a balance between personal protection and that, therefore, has taken a long time in Denmark. You can also go to law school and ban people who have gone under, whether they are once, ten times or more, i.e. Set up some boundaries, re-create an enterprise or sit in corporate management. This is something we can look at. However, we must always be careful that it is not illegal to go under, e.g. in the innovation sector where we see the amazing growth in Iceland today. [[The president calls.]] I know why. A senator shares this vision with me to promote innovation. That's where people go to pieces, change their ideas, come back. [[The president calls.]] That's where it's considered an option. But that is not possible if a person is cheating or stealing. [[The president calls.]] We want them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u65	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I have to say, I was just about the same way I was. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir with questions I was going to ask. I thank you for the information that was presented, but I still have the highest. The minister still does not comment on when the Senate can expect to receive the social security bill. I feel like they're a little pushin' it down. I know it's not easy, but I still don't think the explanations given here are satisfying why a very important bill is not presented. Of course, it's true what the minister said that a company can become a ◯fallite, but it's a completely different story than this social security network. If all this is going to be electronic, which is really good and I'm following it, I wonder, because the minister said it took a long time in Denmark to get the electronic system on: when do you think the highest number is? Ministers that the system will be created and the information it says is necessary before it can bring up the social security bill, which it was during its last term very interested in and talked about? When does she think it can be, not just when it will be ready, but everything that needs to be in place before the bill comes out? When does she think it might happen?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u66	A respectable president. Now, I'm not interested in bringing a bill that I'm not convinced to solve the problems we are facing. Because the senator asked about the development of Denmark, at the beginning of the season, he set out to consider similar cases elsewhere in the north, and we asked: "What do you do when people don't return annual bills? What do you do when the file doesn't reflect reality? How are you with this information? The answers were: It's the law that people should return their annual bills and companies, and we don't have this problem. It's something you don't know there. The files and information that our cousins have in other parts of the North countries, and I would especially like to mention Denmark, reflect the very reality of it. That is why it is in my opinion that it is necessary for us to do exactly the same thing so that we can build up the decisions we deal with information and not some feeling that we all have and that we completely agree that we need to fight. When do these bills get here? Why don't we say that when we're convinced of the way that it's decided to go, the bills will come. We also have other items on the die which, for example, have been pointed out by ASI, which published a fine report for some time ago, have to provide more information and guidance to those who are setting up companies on their rights and duties and are in preparation to start some of the measures. [[The president calls.]] But I say it over and over again that I said in my previous reply that I have no interest in performing actions that are worse for most people and that may not be able to solve the problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u67	A respectable president. I understand the highest. The minister doesn't want to do a bill that no one knows what to do with and die at the council because it's so thoughtless and so thoughtful. I understand she needs to think about it. Of course, they must be careful not to fall into that pit twice. But that's not the answer. Sometimes you feel like the highest. The minister has entered the minister's chair yesterday or yesterday, but it's been three years since, and nothing about it is happening to her special interests and is, like my hobby, getting a link to this social security travel. I don't like it a bit when there's bills that are in order to introduce some directives, but there's a lot more to it. It's just a little bit like the Prince's Tip that I don't think it's clear and there are times when you can talk about smuggling with the ES types that come in. I haven't read this bill very carefully yet, but I would like to ask a simple question: Is it clear in all of this about the plans and what is at home? What can be said about home markets, local markets?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u68	A respectable president. First only because of the senator's interpretation that I said I don't want to bring a bill that would be rejected by the council. It's not that. I'm sure I'll be able to get the government side with me to ban and set very strict rules if I thought it was the way to stop social security. That's not what I meant. I want to make sure I'm solving the subject that exists before such a bill comes. And this bill is part of it. You know, about a mold speech or something. So this bill, as I said at the outset, is a two-way one. On the one hand, we had started that job, and we began to review these laws, such as any other law under which we receive it, as we took it with simple and efficient guidance. Then this European directive arrives and has been in preparation for some time, and I know it will please you. A senator, perhaps more equal to the European Union than the one listed here, that, in this case, interests and emphasis went well together. The European Union's directive was guided by increasing efficiency, especially for smaller companies. So it worked out well. This is clearly stated in a report on what belongs and is necessary on the basis of the directive and what is not. I drew attention to two sizes that are different in this bill from the directive and reiterate the fact that I'm shocked. A committee to examine it. This was the conclusion of the work group that had examined this thoroughly, so I propose. But I feel that these matters are very important to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u69	A respectable president. This bill has gone out a bit in many parts of the world, I think, because it's as if the bill is primarily designed to handle crime, I can call because it's selling goods and valuables and leaving debts in partnerships without any responsibility, natural crime and fraud. First, I'm going to say that this bill is primarily designed to increase the growth of markets in business affairs and that accounts are organized for the implementation of financial information, the publication of the annual account form of financial information. Anything that enhances business clarity should be improved. I'd like to remind members of the Parliament that, in various laws, they are dealing with what is called social security, e.g. criminal law that deals with fraud. In the event of fraud, it is naturally discussed by law on pledges. Who Will Be Hurted? Yes, often there are times when, as fine men say, banks and gas stations, banks, and suppliers. In this regard, I really feel sorry for banks, since they have all the circumstances to make sure of this for the sort of business relationship they're forming, and they don't need legal adjustments. Let us remember that. Also, the client's claims on the information he or she has made on insurance on the basis of a planned business may be met. You can't put everything on top of it. Secretary of the business, that she'll save everything in this matter. Those doing business must be required to do their homework. Many of these devices are available. Also, I would like to draw attention to the fact that a member of my society's management board can lead to a great deal of responsibility. If your partner's rules are not followed, i.e. The law on limited responsibilities is whether this was ever part of a community. Rather, it was the personal business of the business people. There are ways I'm not going to solve. Next thing I'd like to say is that the government has been a partial guarantee, e.g. In holding taxes, where very rigid penalties are laid upon those who are involved in business. There are some sources that prevent companies from being emptied of valuables and that leave behind debts. One thing I'm going to say is in an escape, which was kind of gone with the savings. It became an all - time climate in savings that people came down from the south with great seams and were often great saviors of savings for a while. But such southern gentlemen with great wells left behind debts and trails. Then I come back to the beginning that financial institutions have responsibilities to protect themselves and have tools to protect themselves. I'm just counting on that. The Economic and Business Committee works their jobs and puts this bill through, of course, simple divorce, and it adds to the transparency and function of the business. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have any more of those words.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u70	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of restaurants, restaurants and entertainment, No. 85/2007, on deck. 371 in case No. 457. The bill is based on a bill of the same material submitted during the last assembly, but it has made some adjustments. Here is a more extensive bill in which the emphasis is on simple regulations and on the changed category of homelands. The main subject of the bill is the change in definition and use of host class I, homemaking. Secondly, group I, i.e., a protocol dissociation for Group I restaurants. Restaurants without liquor squads. Third, inaccessible commitment to management provided by the businessman. The more detailed explanation for the changes in the bill is as follows. First, there is a change in the definition of homemaking. As everyone knows, in recent years tourism has been increasing. This increase has led to the lack of demand for hotels and accommodations. For one thing, we have seen a great deal of growth in our country's homein', especially in the capital area. This has also affected the growth and popularity of the so - called shared economy. In other words, the law and regulations regarding resting places and restaurants did not match this new reality in which it was difficult for individuals to make a legal offer. The environment has been complex and disintegrating in this matter. This is shown in a recent report that according to the University of Bifrast, for my ministry, only about 13% of homework are available in the capital area as the law is currently assuming. It should be noted, however, that this bill does not include all of this but, rather, the group that has to do with individuals, not lawyers. Inside Bifrastar's numbers are bigger, since those who rent professionally are also under it. With the bill, legislation is being updated in line with this changed reality and the existence of the shared economy recognized, as it is a simple rule against individuals who wish to participate in this. The bill suggests an dilation of a category of home housing, a host class I, but today the category is defined as a rooming of the landlord's private home for money, and it is assumed that at least one of the household members lives in the household. The party will now be reassigned to take up rooming for the payment of a person's legal home or in one of his personal property. The house - to - house service must not exceed 90 days in total each year. It's those two properties. In order for a job to be visited, individuals need to check into the county's website at the local site or on a specific common website or website. The attorneys will not be allowed to register as locals, only individuals. Negotiations will no longer be required, and these individuals will not undergo the same procedure as other persons for hosting persons in other categories. However, the requirements for burns should be met as per regulation, such as the number of smoke sensors and other burns. They include in-house activities, including homemaking, commitment and pollution Marketing Authorisation, No. 7/1998. These legislation consists of the Environment and Resource Ministers, but when this bill becomes legal, the Environment and Resource Ministers will change the health laws and regulations of loyalty so that localisation can be able to report abroad and receive close supervision by the National Competent Committee. At that time, the bill also obligates the demands of a registered home-based party that they give a recruitment statement to the businessman in the relevant area. Agencys will be surveillance partners with registered and registered organisations in their homemaking and will be authorized to use new resources such as registration, re-registered, and as well as to commit obligatory guiltys to those persons who practice unregistered work. The Commission is given a number to be distributed and shown during the marketing of real estate, including web pages and advertisements. This is true not only of a local person but also of a legal body of other hostels or restaurant groups. This will make it much easier for monitors to monitor the host and restaurant industry, especially those who do not give up numbers. This will also strengthen consumers'protection, for consumers will be able to direct their trade to those who serve in a legal way, including fire - protection requirements, whether at home, in boarding homes, or in hotels. A respectable president. Another factor the bill takes on restaurants without the liquor squad. There is no longer a protocol to be performed, i.e. Permits at restaurants that don't sell alcohol fall down. This simple permit case is considerable, saving costs. In the near future, this situation will only be subject to permission from the local community, and the activities will be determined by a method of loyalty, building order, and planning. The sites will also remain under legal supervision. This is where the responsibility and oversight are entrusted to the rural groups, who are much better equipped to care for these activities. Groups II and III restaurants and residences in Groups II, III, and IV will be provided with this bill for future use. In current systems, the license is granted for four years at a time, and it is possible to apply for renewal after that time. This change is in accordance with the motion of a travel agency's management team for a simple work environment and routine for tourism. Permissions to cancel, however, remain the same. A new law on rentals approved last year may be found to be the exact same, untimely license. In view of the goals of simple regulations, there is also the bill that harmonizes with local society's comments, construction agents, fire departments, and health care. The aim of the change is to simplify the application procedure to the candidate in a way that a local government gathers information from members of its administration system and provides a collective review. Each community is expected to have sufficient space to process the process. So the goal of the bill is to achieve a much more simple work environment for restaurants and a place to stay with a release of permit and non-term permission. Our goal, then, is that with the change in homemaking, people will be simplified to rent out their homes to a set maximum time each year. This will include the removal of unauthorized accommodations. Homemaking through Web sites such as Airbnb andbooking.com has greatly improved the weather in recent years, and this is simply meeting the positions and making the order around the reality that we experience so that humans can participate in this in a simple, legal way. By so doing, we too will reach to black employment, get it up on the table, and, as I said before, it will be much easier for individuals to do so by standing legally on the table. I believe that the majority of the public want to be legal, so we have to admit that this reality exists and make the environment simple and clear. In this context, I'd like to specifically mention real estate taxes. There is a big difference between real estate costs that can be paid by housing on the other hand and professional living conditions. The purpose of the bill is light for homemaking, i.e. those who are not employed by individuals. It is that locality is generally not to include individuals in employment activities, rather for personal use. It is also clear that there are many apartments in blacklets throughout the year that should be recorded as job homes. It's where the rural communities are losing their income. It is therefore a big matter of interest that this issue will succeed and that by means of the bill, you will have better opportunities to focus on the group as well as on those who are determined to cheat on taxes and to compromise rules. The bill has been employed in a wealth of cooperation with the tourism services as well as cooperation with both the Home Office, the Ministry of Health and the Environment and Resource Ministry. Now we're taking a closer look at the job board and a review. We know that various viewpoints will arise, and among other things, we have heard reports of criticism because of the 90 - day rule. The bill submitted to the council at the last council had eight weeks, but it was because of the review given to the council at the time the decision was made to extend this period to 90 days. But there may be a point of view and may be a concern, that this may be an abnormal competition between those who say that they run a boarding home over the middle of the month, which could be 90 days, and that these would be considered competitive. So I encourage the committee to review these views carefully, hear all the sides of that matter, and decide if this should change. I now state that the Ministry and its staff, whether me or my employees, are prepared to cooperate in this regard. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u71	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the bill. I see that it has changed well since it was submitted to the last council, although it is always difficult to handle these matters as we would like to. But there has been a marked improvement between the councils. Only in terms of grouping. If I run a ten-bedhouse over the middle of the summer, let's just say for three months, I'll have to pay permission and go through the process, but I can also record that as a homemaking, and I can't pay for it. I need a little more explanation for that. This is the reality of the country. There are some ten - bed beds in which there are no special fireproofs and so forth, but the boarding home is brought in as a legal entity because of its requirements. But then people rent out the same number of beds and according to this, they don't have to go through the same programme or pay the same fee. Also, I would like to ask about having an apartment There is a report on page 14 that it is being measured so that it is preferably in another mail number, although it is not conditional. We also face the possibility that people may have two possessions in the same address number, and they have two possessions in the capital area in each of the numbers. Is that all right, then, but the rest not okay? I feel that it is suggested on page 14 that we really need to be on our separate path.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u72	A respectable president. The idea of the bill is to cover a certain part of this reality, i.e. that when individuals, families, want to improve their income by renting their homes or houses or other possessions, for example, when the person goes on vacation or when he does not use his property at that time. This includes the shared economy idea. It is difficult to establish clear boundaries, so we are sure that these will not be abused or detracted from the competitiveness of those who are engaged in employment. Regarding the senator's question about the ten - bed beds home, it is set in place here that it is a legal home or other property for personal use. I don't expect a lot of people with a ten - bed house for personal use. Of course, it will be a standard, but the thought is that it is a home or a cottage. It's the injury. For the burn prevention, it is required everywhere, including this product; certain requirements for burn prevention must be met, so that this is clear. About the mail number. At the time of this bill's preparation, it was a lot discussed, and it was also an idea at some time to suggest renting out legal homes and other possessions, but not in the same mail number. Then, for example, I can mention an example from my district - that if anyone lives in the Cape of the Hornfjord, in a cabin in the lagoon, it is the same number. So we did not want to make things difficult. [[The president calls.]] So the conclusion was that this was for personal use, while the explanations were included in the report in order to see what is meant.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u73	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. Of course, that's based on five rooms with ten beds, and that's why it's expected to be there, that's why I ask. But it's good to have those answers. It's a good idea, but it's assumed that a person can be rented out for 90 days all year, if I get it right. This is not necessarily necessary; it may cover the whole year. The surveillance must be pretty tricky, I think that's just gotta be it. The date-use reports should be submitted. Returning it is not complicated in itself. It is possible for each one to do so, but then rent more than that, and then choose him. Well, it's a business we're trying to get to the surface, something people's done by the law. Also, I have wondered what is stated on page 24 that the police have not really monitored unless they have been advised. The rural communities have something to hold their arms around it and report it, especially the restaurant business and that sort of thing. But what really changes with the surveillance factor other than that someone will be benefiting from reporting it to the relevant person? Then there's this thing about business or not professional work. Then I think of rent income. Why not? Here in the capital area, for example, we know that you can rent out houses for 90 days for huge sums, but you may not do that somewhere in the country where income will be much less of this kind of activity than it can be here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u74	A respectable president. If I understood why. A member of the council was asking if it would certainly not be proper for 90 days alone but for a total of 90 days, that would be the correct understanding. This totals over a year for the two relevant assets. The surveillance is moving from police to county. It is noted that both the report and the financial cost have to be added. This was made clear by a representative of the Minister of the Interior. In fact, as shown in the expense report, other tasks fall down, which are always trudging about how much this will cost. But it is absolutely clear that if this is to happen, there must be supervision. You must be sure that if you do not submit the data or engage in these activities for a longer period than is permitted, you will be advised to do so and you will be monitored. People miss this now, huh? Senator. That's right. It's the reality we're dealing with. One explanation of that reality is that the application procedure and the rule around it is too complicated. Here we are reacting to it. Of course, we're going blind, because it's new. We're trying to reach out for this new reality. If it becomes obvious that it is not available, it will be evaluated, of course. But how fascinating it will be to see how this law, which is extremely simple to the extent that it is relevant to the individual part, will have to bring this activity more to the surface. Now it is that if renting out, they fall upper in real estate. [[The president calls.]] They need to apply for licenses, proof of health, and all that drives people away from registering, but they may still be doing this work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u75	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by thanking the Minister for bringing this case right now. I'm sure there's a lot of benefits in this bill compared to what was delivered last spring, but here are still some things that I'm really thinking about. This is primarily about the simple system, and it is of the good, but I wondered, " How simple is it to bring police surveillance to the county and to take over this matter from the police to the county? ' As far as I can see, there's surveillance and registration and so forth on two hands, i.e. County officials are expected to register, and then they are to inform the police to keep an eye on them. That hurts. I'm also convinced that it's more expensive when it comes to government funds than having it all in one place, under one roof. The police are far better equipped to oversee these matters than the county office. I think if you're going to maintain some serious surveillance on the part of the county, that's gotta call for a man-sponsor. On the other hand, the police can effectively match these other monitoring projects they perform. So that's not where I see the simplicity. There are also other things I only wondered about, e.g. About fire protection. I see in comments that Catalonia, Spain, is stricter policy on renting tourists, i.e. Regarding homemaking, it is recommended that the owner be present. It tells itself that if a owner is not there, then there must be a very good mark and a great deal of walking from fire signs and escape routes that are naturally known if the owner is there. So I don't feel quite clear enough to put it there. There's one more thing I want to say and I'm in eight. the bill, which says: 'Environment to function under these laws shall be non-term.' However, monitoring is then referred to as being subject to monitoring costs. And now I'm still asking about simplicity. Is it not more correct to have your license for perhaps four years, then renew it for a price? A lot can happen in four years. It's possible they'll relax the clone. I think it would be much closer, and it would also be simple to arrive at the place every four years, even once every three years, instead of being monitored for the unscheduled surveillance fee and would be a burden to those who run this operation. These are all factors that must be considered when it comes to the committee. I want to be happy that the duration is 90 days. I think that's good because the eight-week period was completely unacceptable to me personally. I also don't think those who run a year's checkout are going to be tormented because this room is in category I. If it's recorded correctly, it's not supposed to be a threat to those who are in a 12 month bed with a real home, as one says. That's definitely not supposed to happen. I'm very happy that the bill has been shown right now because the situation as it has been, that only 13% of this facility has been registered, has been intolerable, there's an intolerable exchange of taxes. But then I'll ask myself, too, about the registration. Since the bill is supposed to be homemaking, we must also now, as soon as the bill passes its way through the council, speed up immediate surveillance of unscrupulous lawyers. There's nothing to wait for, because this few thousand cabins, e.g. in the busy capital area, not all are at home. It's got to be good for us to get them started right away. I just want to tell them they're gonna sign up immediately. Then I'll say again: That's why it's necessary for the police to hold this case from all sides, not that it is thrown between the county and the police. I don't think that's good. Then comes the registration fee. Unregistered registration fee for 8 of you. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. That'll cost you 25 yards. Call to have a jeep for six months to drive through the country. There's someone there who can make 8 of you pick up an 8ford. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. I'm not quite sure that I feel that this is close to high enough, i.e. if we are not going to time the price. But I'd say again, "I'd love to pay this amount if the season was four years, or something like that." That's where I think we need to look into our issues. This is shown in comments with the bill, with president's permission: ◯ Lawmen are not permitted to sign up to be members of a locality, only individuals. It's a very good law. The warning ones I am now crossing are all focused on the fact that I don't feel that I'm going too far into simplicity. The simplicity is on the side of the hosting, the simplicity isn't on the State side. Money is not being saved through this arrangement. Then there's one point I didn't know was that I was making comments with the bill. Now I have just distributed it, so if I'm being wronged, the minister of this operation is asked me to do something good. But in a report a minister quoted earlier, which was made at the University of Bifröst, it is said of the revenue of this operation or what I should say, where the income of this activity should be paid at home, how to tax this income. It's a question of whether it needs to be sharpened. I took what the Minister once said about consultation with other departments, that I didn't hear from the Ministry of Economics and Economics. Maybe it's just because I don't hear well, but it would have to be with because on page. 15 In the University of Bifröst, the report says, with the permission of a president: Short - term rent tax returns are not clear enough. Cabin income is generally tax-related according to c- team 7. income tax law No. 90/2003. The C-age tax, a so-called fiscal tax, is 20% on the 3 mg basis. 66. g. income taxation. According to the same paragraph, 30% of a person's income comes from an honest living house. Business management, on the other hand, is tax dependent on the 7th Team. income taxation shapes That's where I agree with the press. I would have felt that with this bill, which is available here, there would have to be an improvement in how income of short-term rent is taxed. It also helps to clarify matters to those who intend to have a good time in this regard. Of course, they have not had to worry until now because they have paid no taxes. But if they become legal, they may be fine to know what it will cost. I think it would be good for all, for those who intend to rent out, and for the treasure of the state, that they know exactly what they're going to do in this business. I think the four points I mentioned mainly need to be considered more carefully, primarily the simplicity, i.e. that the police are taking care of everything with this case, and I need very strong reasons to believe that it is not right to do so. I know this is being moved away now, but I must get very strong reasons that it is better for the police and the county to throw it between them than for the police to have this completely in their hands. Then, so I reiterate it, I think it would be a great improvement if we were to insert conditions into the bill similar to what is done in Catalonia that when people rent their homes or parts of it, they are there, and that's why they're not given discounts, they're making it easier to use burning protection. But so I repeat, I'm glad that the bill has been released. I have no doubt that the bait or the points that are not clear enough to my opinion can be removed, and I look forward very much to sharing in this job on a professional committee to resolve this matter quickly and safely but with needed changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech and the interest he shows in this matter. I know he did the same when the bill, which was not completed here at the last council, was treated by the Committee. First of all: It may have been the hardest thing to find out how to manage it. I encourage the committee to examine it. It was our decision to hide that surveillance from the county. Yes, it will be more expensive because the police involved today are not caring for it just cannot get over caring for it. The newer you are recording, that you have a obligation to have a number, you can look at it more online. Then, of course, there will be good cooperation between the police and the districts to go to the place. I can't agree with that. A senator means they're throwing things between us. I think it's a good idea to put the politicians in charge of this so they're responsible. It is also in harmony with our objective, when the county office was united, to give them additional assignments and to have them all over the country. There's a good reason, and I encourage the committee to review it. The fire protection requirements will be implemented in Regulation. When it comes to being temporary or temporary, I simply don't agree. A senator on that subject. I don't think there's any reason to use it as a reason to renew a permit, as a reason to turn people into unnecessary, whether it has to do with individuals or business. This is the way we're going. [[The president calls.]] I'll finish the notes in my second answer, but I'd like to finally say there's no surveillance fee here so that there's some misunderstanding on the Senator's side.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u77	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for this answer. It's not out of nothing that I'm talking about the county being out of position to monitor their hands. Yes, it is true that the county service has been assigned to work together, but the problem is that funding has not been followed, not enough. It's been made, and that's what worries me. I see that it is in comments that there are 30 to 40 million people, if I remember correctly. Then I'll say again: I think that money would be better spent to support the police if necessary. V.E.G. A minister said that the police had not been able to oversee this operation, but still there's a police patrol on the part of the police so I don't see how the police are going to continue with it. [[Up front.]] Actually, there's one thing, too, that's the highest possible. A minister mentioned, which is a cause for rejoicing, that is the number given to hostels. I'll take it then so that this number, such as at the front door, will also be marked by the host's accommodations. I think that would be a great improvement. In case there's such direct surveillance, it's gotta be an improvement to see if there's a number on it or not. Then you can avoid visiting those who are really marked. As for the monitoring fee and the misunderstanding, I'm going to take it in the next answer because I couldn't better see it than it was here in comments with the bill that it was expected to be done. But if it isn't, I'm still going to insist on it to 8,000 bucks. The specified untimely leave is too low.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u78	A respectable president. For the last one, I just want to say it specifically until this 8,000 k. A registration fee is not intended to be a large profit raise for the state fund. Rather, it is the price used by men to register to bring these items and this activity to the surface. However, we do not view this as a major source of income. Another thing I didn't come to in my previous answer was the taxation of different lodgings, different rent incomes, and all of that. Everything's true, as a matter of course. A senator mentioned, and that is why a RSK work force is looking at these things. This does not refer to the taxation section end it in other laws, so this work is referred to by the government tax manager. Regarding what the senator mentioned about Catalonia, making it a requirement for people to be there, that's exactly what we're changing. It wouldn't cover this operation the way it is; the balance economy idea is that I rent my apartment to tourists here while I'm a tourist somewhere else. Or I'm away and I'm not using my property. It was the conclusion of this work that this would not fit into the thought we are making here. Whether the premises should also be marked by the number, I encourage the committee to examine it. That is something we have not specifically considered. I would encourage you to look into the safety issues as well. If your house is marked in a prominent way with such a number, it could have the effect of burglary to consider burglary more likely to be a burglary in which the householders would not be at home. [[The president calls.]] I encourage the committee to examine such views. But I wanted to challenge these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u79	V.E.G. President. With respect to 8,000 k. Neither shall I be to receive the treasure of the kingdom, that I will present it as an old tax collector of the state's treasure, and a treasurer of the state's treasure of 8,000 years. is just not enough to cover the costs of registration and monitoring. [[Up front.]] I'd like to take a look at this as if it fell into an idea of service fees, i.e. that the amount paid will correspond to the cost of the service or the monitoring that needs to be performed. [[Up front.]] I've taken it so much, you know. Minister, thank you for this. But I'm still going to claim it to 8,000 bucks. is too small, since the work of a government employee is at least 12.500. if I know the truth, a specialist in the Bureau or Department. But, of course, these are things, such as the ultimate. A minister rightly mentioned, which the committee may review. For the fact that the number of this house is likely to be a magnet for burglary, I'll allow me to doubt it. I'd like to refer to good experience with the sound of summerhouse security all over the country. Some houses have a security number, and if anything comes up, they're charted, so the Rapporteurs can arrive at the site. Apart from the numbering of the premises, the renter also tells the customer that there is a registered operation, that taxes are not being dealt with, or those who do tax practices, so that you are polite. So I think that might be a good thing. But, of course, we do this on the committee, and as I said earlier, I look forward to taking care of it quickly and clearly. On the other hand, I would recommend it very strongly - it is, of course, true that taxation is elsewhere and in another government and other laws - that it then be taken into consideration, or that the law, at the same time so that both will be paid at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u80	Mr. President. I'm just gonna go through this thing. It was a fine discussion, and it also led to the fact that the bill has improved between councils, as I said earlier. Among the things I like about the bill are the non-term permission that is being given the smallest positions, and I think that this is exactly the way to ease the whole process and is necessary to meet the factor that has been highly criticized, that small parties have to go through exactly the same procedure as big ones, though they have much less size. I think it's very good to be dealt with. Still, I kept wondering where I was from. Actually, I think 8,000 bucks. let's make a fine amount of money because it matters, it may be convenient for the man renting out his summer house a few days a year and still want to be legal and with everything on the table, as they say. He may even rent it out so that he needs to prepare it, make a bed and clean and get ready, but it may not be 90 days that he can rent it out, perhaps only 20 or 30. But here in the capital area, you sometimes get very large amounts of money on a few nights. I don't know, it's kind of a moderate kind of thing, but I don't know what it was, so it would be a year's time. I would also have wanted to see that it was not just thinking about day - to - day living but also of rent income. If so, it might not be able to reach the business on the surface. I'm worried about real estate cats. I'd like to have a little discussion about it on the committee because it's a lot different how rural society does it. They place property taxes on a person who rents out days per year, and these eight weeks as in the law or what it was, as if business was involved. I think it would have to harmonize much better, so it's not a suitable country policy each time what it is like. Next time I'd like to talk about what's called restaurants without alcohol, no longer doing business. I just want to roll it up, though, because here's just an example of a bakery with several boards, that, of course, this can be a big place. It can be a place with 100 seats. There's nothing against it. All it says is that alcohol cannot be sold. That's really what's different from another restaurant. I would have felt that the committee had to see if there should be any climax to how large places could fall under it or how many seats they could have. Then there is the surveillance that we've talked about and that's what we did last time. I have, like, a whisk. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, concerned about the surveillance that as indicated in the report, the financial review, I think, is said to have been small and mainly based on observations from neighbors or sources. As I said before, there may not be anything that says there will be anything different now than it has been. There is really no support for this, although it is entrusted to the Commission in part or so. It is later stated that certain individuals are expected to gather and announce this so that this can be further monitored. As for these 90 days, it's very hard for me to hold it if you get to rent for 90 days over the whole year, you rent three days in January, seven in May, 30 in June, but who's to watch? Really, it can be that way if you have a vacation or an apartment that you really have, in fact, is really hard to grasp how much money you rent out. This is an attempt to control it in some way, but I have serious doubts about the surveillance. The minister responded well and said that the renting of the home was not a matter of major importance, whether it was a vacation home or not. She pointed to examples from her own district, and I also know such things from my own district. About the D- force, 8. ... ofthenumber. There's a lot of talk about it in the bill that when it comes to renewal, people are allowed into this new system. Is this going to follow the number distribution, or are you going to try to put your arms around it immediately? Then it's in D-Dret 15. for which you will need to apply for three weeks in advance of one. The evidence that there may be a need to look for accounts and may take time. I feel like three weeks too long, see the D- team 15. on page 24. 19th Often, something comes up. I've been in a business like this, and there's a lot of situations. [[Up front.]] For example, you may be offered to take some entertainment or something in a relatively short notice, not necessarily three weeks in advance. I suggest there's a chance there's a chance we can meet up there somewhere. A week may be too short, but three weeks I think it's too long. Then, finally, I have to come to my consultation and to the expense, where the surveillance is actually being done considerably in the countryside, in the health care department and in the building manager, the fire department, etc. These people are expected to deliver uniform messages. It certainly is. In fact, the rural communities provide permission, and this is a partnership between them and the county and all that, but it is said that this can lead to some of the expense. Although the Ministry does not expect it to be high, I suggest that the committee check that the relationship is making comments and now wants to have the influence of planned changes checked and to determine if they are causing significant expense. Whether the efficiency produced by the bill is going to be achieved significantly because it stands and falls by these sides, i.e. The rural groups and their surveillance are up to their expectations. The module was bringing more work to the county. I've been talking a lot about it. Five of the values mentioned here are listed on page 20. 25 C.E.S. Department of Economics. If I understand that correctly, they all go to the capital area, where there's certainly a lot of pressure and pressure. This is said to remain within the State Department's budget. At the same time, the cost of programming is 10 billion. K. etc. I know there's a need for extra funding for these five standards, but monitoring the home environment should fit within the Ministry's financial frame. Are they going to transfer between the police and the county? It can be understood this way, since the same phrase refers to the withdrawal of the cost to the sheriff and then increasing again to the county. All these parties have been complaining about not having enough money between their hands or to run the office. That was the first time. This, of course, results in an increase of over 30 million. K. Annually, which is expected to consist primarily of the support of the EICs and the management of the majority of domestic registrations. I feel that the local administration should take this off most of its money, but this is to add quite a bit of humanity here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and fine tips, many of whom I encouraged the committee to take a good look at the council. The Senator spoke of the need to send a clear message to the countryside on how to pay, the real estate fees, as I understood. That's where I agree completely. The purpose of this is to reach individuals, not lawyers, is not to. Today, individuals have to pay higher mortgages and have to pay higher costs, and this is one of the factors that discourage them. So I think it's very important, and I encourage the rural communities to come together to think it that way with us, that they have this without bigger real estate bills, and that they focus on us with covering the lawyers who are doing this business. I don't understand what it's like to enforce it either. Suppose a community plans to bring a 90 - day charge to registered persons, but the warrant is until 90 days, so it may well be that the property will only be rented out during a week when the family is on vacation. How can this be monitored? I think it's complicated and it dissipates individuals from participating in this. So I want to send a clear message to the locals about it. For the surveillance and the county, and the authority for the businessman in the capital area, this is mentioned in the sum of expenses and, of course, must be transmitted by the Ministry of State and by them. [[The president calls.]] I have full faith that there will be a good consideration for the views as a matter of course. A senator mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u82	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. You can take an example from your surroundings, you know these things, and the real estate spending is very important. This is a large package that may go from tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands when you're paying real estate dues because you're in business. That's why I don't like it if those decisions, as it seems to have been in some way. That's why I'm worried too. We were talking about those 90 days - you can have a house you're renting every once in a year, some days at a time, or night and night, and that can lead to people believing that it's a job, allowing them to interpret it that way. Even if you check in in in the suggested way that the local resident is doing, you might think, " Wait, she's renting more than 90 days, or is she renting less? ' This is one of the things I think it's a little hard to deal with. I'd say, if you check in, I'd think, unless you can get a chance to prove that it's on the shoulders of the locals to prove that they're doing something other than he's written he's doing. There may be some kind of card that you can post. At least it's got to be taken care of, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u83	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator and reiterate the thought that we are talking about authority to individuals for 90 days, unlike what happens when people have jobs that have higher real estate costs. About the D- force 15. Gr., week or three weeks, I've planned a number of events short notice that I have a measure of compassion on this point of view and that I encourage the committee to look at it. For Group I, which may be large and needs to be taken into account: Yes, I agree, but I think the locals are the best way to determine how long they're supposed to be open and where they can be. They have the organizational authority, they have the closer environment, so I think it's good for the rurals to be able to make this decision on their own. That's what we're referring to with an opening time: this will fit into their general field of activity. With regard to the surveillance and encouragement from members of Congress, as I understand it, to monitor immediately, to cover this thing immediately, and to make sure it works out well, I agree completely. I think that's what has to be done when this system starts, i.e. to see that we trust people. We're saying, come along, we've got a suggestion for this particular subject, we're gonna keep the rules simple and clear, but we'll follow them closely. You come with us on this mission. I'm very excited to see if this works. If it turns out there's a need for more supervision, for people to be cheating, then I just have to eat my hat and admit I've been too gullible about human nature. But I want to believe it, and have heard enough people tell me, that they want to be involved in this shared economy, but that it is too complicated to do it legally. [[The president calls.]] I have full faith that this will help us in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u84	Mr. President. I appreciate this to the Minister. What I meant about these places, and the best place to figure it out is, mostly this: Should we say the maximum limit to the number of food, usually or to the number of guests? Or can the places take a thousand, just not sell alcohol to fall into the bottom of a scale? Of course, while selling alcoholic beverages may be the main source of human income, it also makes a lot of money. Therefore, I feel that the committee needs to see if there is a reason for this. Regarding the signals--that's what I was wondering. If I have a business that's going to put into force the laws that are currently in force and they're to be replaced in two years, do I get the signal as soon as the law takes effect on May 1 or not until it comes to renewal, is that it? That's what I was thinking about counting on -- Yeah, it's good to know. [[The thought is now.]] I just think that's supposed to happen as soon as possible. I think it's important that we just get into the system immediately. I think it's been a really good discussion, and it's on its way. We just have to try to do this a little trimming, I think it's worth trying to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u85	A respectable president. I'm sorry, but I missed the top story talk. A minister on this matter and the discussion will follow, and now he will find it fresh. But I've been watching the case with interest, and I've read the bill now and when it came out at the last council. I find this very interesting and important, trying to simplify the order of homemaking and restaurants and trying to deal with the reality of the shared economy simply coming to be. People want to rent their apartments to tourists, and we have to try to put our arms around them and celebrate them. This increases the variety of sleeping opportunities, and I think all of these trends, Airbnb and more websites, increase the number of tourists in Iceland. I find it extremely urgent. I read a report on the simple nature of travel services that were involved in travel services, and I was a bit ◯svvag to the results it contained, especially when it came to home. I have long felt completely obvious that the order around home, where there are actually the same requirements for homemaking as for bedkeeping, is completely out of date with the reality that exists. It simply leads to this service going down to the black economy, people not applying for permission, and we cannot control it. If I remember correctly, this group, or committee, suggested that the book be simplified so that people who wanted to rent out space can only rent out to a maximum of two spaces or whether there were three. In any case, rent was confined to a number of compartments. The procedure on the bill is to tie it to a number of days. The group suggested that homemaking be only reported as being the highest. A minister suggests in the bill, not all these permissions would need to be applied, but it certainly would have to meet the requirements for burning prevention and all that is obvious. But rent was not limited to the number of days but simply to the number of spaces. If you have some space in your home that you are not going to use and would like to rent out, would you like to have tourists inside your house all year round, then according to this committee's motion, it would have been related to the announcement? The bill has begun to bind it to 90 days, and you can only use this life - style to hire tourists in your house, even though there is only one space, for 90 days. My speech is kind of an answer, I missed the opportunity to respond to a minister earlier, but I would like to ask the highest degree. Minister: Why have we gone this way? Why is this tied to 90 days? Where do people who want to rent out permanent one or two spaces at their home enter an Airbnb or for tourists? Will they still apply in the same way that they were running a boarding home? [[Up front.]] If they want to rent out all year round, one space? Why is the rent being tied to 90 days? Why is this group's approach to simple regulations not taken? That would prevent people from going into some masafian business simply by saying that the stay is limited to how much you can rent out but not by how many days a year you could rent out. There's a weird situation where people have some kind of space at their home and want to rent it out and join in the shared economy and invite tourists to this place to stay, they don't want to go to these boarding rooms, but the reality is that they can only rent out the space for 90 days, and the rest of the year it's empty. Why is this road gone? That's what I want to ask you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. As I understand the senator, he's wondering why we're tying it to the property, a certain time, instead of just renting my living room all year to tourists, I'm allowed to do it. I'm allowed to do that, but then I don't like these songs, it's just a room for rent and a lie to public rent, like when you rent a living room to students at the university or something. Then it goes by the law and it's not bound by who the tenant is, if you have the room for rent all year round, as I understand the inquiry. Why 90 days? 90 days is because what you're trying to reach out here is just these normal people who want to recover from their income or participate in the shared economy by renting e.g. out of his apartment when he goes away on vacation and earns his income during, either his property or his cottage, but not someone who normally works rent. That's the thought that comes here. I'm looking at the senator, and I'm sure there's something wrong with the inquiry because he's a little thinking about the look. But as I understand the inquiry, we're talking about two different things.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u87	A respectable president. I don't think we're wrong about each other, but I'm just a little out of the way. Yes, that's right, the bill meets the needs of the people who want to rent out their house while they go on vacation and can do it less than 90 days, but they don't show up to the other people. I think most people who participate in the shared economy and rent a part of their space, a living room or a studio apartment in a basement or something, at Airbnb, will do it all year long. Is it not the goal of the bill to try to achieve it? A great many simply rent the space all year, or they would like to do it all year long. The objective of the bill is to get this work to the surface, to come up and people pay taxes and fees, and the simple rule around this exactly when people rent out their living rooms to tourists all year long. But this bill doesn't. It does not simplify the order to them. It still has to be, if it's going to have this life - style to hire tourists all year, not just for 90 days, or when they go on vacation, to go through all this jungle lets and all of it all go. They will actually be treated as if they were in a rooming business. I'm critical of that. I think it's weird. I liked the better suggestion that came from the group on the simple design of a travel service that said, and I think I'm sure I'm right: you can rent up to two spaces into your own property without having to go through the entire jungle. It was tied to a number of compartments. Then we'll get all this small household business, which I don't think can be said to be some great business, up to the surface. But the bill as it is presented doesn't. They only meet the needs of people who are going to take a vacation and rent out their house. We're not really talking about that when it comes to Airbnb.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u88	A respectable president. Yes, that's the correct understanding of the senator. It's not really under way. The people who are doing this all year long and renting parts of space or property are now joined in Class II, which is actually a boarding home and has to be applied for permission as such. This is where we put our arms around this corner of the subject. I sure hope this will do that. This may be the first attempt to straighten out the situation in a simple way. I really hope that the law, if the bill is accepted, will achieve its aims, and we will, of course, have them in the close mind to see if they will. It may well be that a professional health committee who reviews the case thinks that there is a reason to consider these groups, or as I considered important, that we will look to it when there is experience in how the law works.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-21-65.u89	A respectable president. I'm glad we understand each other, but the whole thing has become quite clear about what they're talking about. It is then that the bill meets only the needs of those who want to take a vacation and rent out their house while or rent out their cottages while they're not using it. That's what I think is a rather small group, and I don't know it like, of those who do it renting out on Airbnb. If the aim is to get the shared economy at home, to get this Airbnb line on the surface and simple rule around it all, to celebrate the variety that appears in the accommodations with the development of Airbnb, I would now have to check that there would be another way. I think the way that was suggested in the report is better, simply saying to people who want to rent out space that they are tied to a set number of compartments. I think it's wise to tie it to two rooms or two rooms or something like that. I think homemaking as if it is now with all the rights and because everything is now confined to eight beds, so it would already be running it very much down. If people wanted to rent out two spaces, they would be within the limit of being out of business, that would be just a normal participation in the shared economy. If we tie in the rest of the day, I don't think we're going to get the conclusion that this operation will surface. Then I think people who want to rent out all year will try to keep it on black.
