ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Environment and Resource Ministry asking for every request to give a written answer for this request. 770 on committees, staff and project management from Birks Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u2	A respectable president. I'd like to call the Senate's attention to the pink tax. It is thus that the same product, which is exactly the same product, very often costs much more if it is intended and marketed for women than if it is intended for men. What is meant for women costs a total of about 7% more, but often the difference is much greater. This is what producers and salesmen put on, which is called tax but is, of course, a pretext against what women buy rather than men. That's a lot of lips. These are baby products, toys, and clothing for children; what is meant for girls is more expensive than what is meant for boys. Also, there are goods intended for us adults. Then I'm not talking about women choosing more expensive than men, I'm just talking about the exact same product that producers have decided to market for women more than men, and I'm charging them for more. Of course, consumer awareness is important. Some might say that consumers should not be offered, women should not be offered to pay higher prices. But as we know, it often has no choice. It is not only possible to place responsibility on women who are consumers there, for the rules of play themselves are distorted, and people may be strangers. Two things must come to change this. We need to increase our awareness of consumers, then we need real government action. We need a financial check, and we need consumer protection, and we need to get this information to consumers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u3	A respectable president. Regular news spread to us and to the community, very sad news, that fathers, usually fathers, do not meet their children; even for years, they do not have the opportunity to meet their children. Children's law makes it clear that both parents have the right to associate with their children and their children, and it is vital, to associate with both parents. In fact, parents are under obligation to associate with their children. I would like to try to put these matters on the program here at the council because we have very often, blessed, understandable, and necessary, talked about sexual violence. I think these obstacles, these obstacles to the right of children and fathers to associate with one another, to be nothing more than sexual violence. I think it's very important that we discuss these matters under that hat. Blessedly, we have decided to take all manner of action against various forms of sexual violence and to try to eliminate it. I think it's important that we put this kind of violence, where fathers are forbidden to meet their children, under exactly the same hat. It's nothing but that. This is violence that is directed primarily against fathers, and as is so often the case with sexual violence, children suffer the loss of this violence. It just so happens that it's completely clear in the children's law. The union is to stop tiping about these cases. It is often said that these are complex examples, that it is difficult to enter them, etc. True, they are often complicated, but they must be recognized as being violent, a violation of the rights of children, and usually of fathers, and we must deal with this as such. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u4	A respectable president. The government has preconceived the affairs of tourists, but it is not to ask that its prowess are at the time of the Law on a Framework Program. Now it turns out that the government has in the middle of the game decided to change the protocols of the project management framework. It began at the beginning of this election period to work on the classification of special products of activation that had special admiration for the government. Then, last March, she started sorting 28 priming options, and she is likely to be well - equipped with her work. However, it is true that the government wants the request of national activation to alter the rules in order to apply for a small change in activation initiatives established in the National Protection Programme. It's so clearly not in the spirit of the law on a framework plan, it's completely immoral, and we're not going to enjoy it. This is about to be illegal and immoral. The government is not to be trusted with a concert of nature protection. It should not be the role of activation companies to decide on which methods of activation are weighed and evaluated. It is the responsibility of the people and their representatives to make that choice. This is done by the rules set here at the Council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u5	Mr. President. Yesterday we received the good news of the Syrian family that has been living here in the country since last year for humanitarian purposes. The joy and relief that the family experienced when she was informed of this conclusion were seen in yesterday's news, but as most of them were known to excommunicate on the basis of the Order of Dublin. Not all yesterday's news, however, was as joyful as it was in the shelterers. Here I refer to the news that it is to dismiss from the country of Nigeria, Martin Omolou, who has been here for four years, which is the time he has had to wait for a decision in his case. He is not the only one to be in this tragic situation, in which two other trustees, Okafor Okafor, who is also a Nigerian who has been here for four years, and Christian Boadi, who is Ghana, who has been here for three years, has been denied visas. If they are confronted with deportation for the Daffron Order, even though they have provisional license until June. No one in charge was given, just one phone call, and they're thrown out of the country. There must be trust in institutions and activities in this category. There's no trust now. Laws and regulations based on humanity and responsibility are the things involved in these matters. Many people ask themselves, " Do governments's decisions about granting permission or not mainly depend on how much the media and the public react? ' It seems random and subject to sudden behavior. The ones who are so lucky that their language is covered in the media and on Facebook pages have far more potential than others, and they don't mess with media family photos. Governments must turn their attention and adapt their methodology to these matters and present a bill for new alien laws right away in order to correct this situation. We are to build it on a human spirit, not just some, but in a way that brings it to the fore. And stop, Mr. President, making such terrible decisions as they were made yesterday. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u6	Mr. President. Now more than 78 thousand have been required by their signature of increased medical funding. The government must respond to that call. But where should the funds be directed? What aspects of our health - care system should we strengthen? How do those who sign in the name of restoration want to see a restored health system? I don't like the way the health system has developed in some areas. In recent years, surveys have often shown that we Icelanders want our health systems to be run for public funds and mostly in public institutions. A surgeon has noted that more of the doctors working at the Land Hospital are also serving in private rooms in town and that there is now a high level of cohesion that damages the Land Hospital. Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir wrote in the days of a fine fistula during the hour, pointing out that the goal of health care will be the first stop of patients and that the Landspians will become a university hospital, a center of professional medical care, is urgent public interest. However, the development of separate medical services outside hospitals undermined these objectives. Personal health care has increased at the expense of public service. Private medical care outside the hospital has been more effective when it comes to public funds. Contracts with specialists assume that growth and increase in the elderly are taken into account while the Landspians do not receive funding for the growth of patients. And now family doctors are looking out with government support. So I would like to ask again, Mr President, where are we going to direct the funding and how do we and the people of the country want to see the health system develop?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u7	A respectable president. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to take my heart to the supreme. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson used to say sexual violence to fathers who are not allowed to meet their children. I'll agree with that. I'm going to talk to you later. Kjerúlf Last night, while talking in the council work and on television talking about dangerous tourist places, the Þorvarðardóttir of Kehrer was an uninhibited son of a bitch. I'd like to be corrected for that. I don't want to minimize the threat to tourists from nature. It's not enough for us to stay awake in that matter, but we have to do the work, and I would definitely like to go there in cooperation with tourism and rural areas in the country. I would like to quote a talk at the highest. paritaprevir Ólína Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir. That's what it says. Senator, with permission from the President: I want to pick up today's poll on the safety of tourists in Iceland. Well, it's not the first time I've made it a subject here. [...] The danger of trying has long been clear to everyone. There, six people have died in a few years. Happily, the senator has not had the correct information on the matter, but two tourists have been struggling to survive in recent years. Of course, that's two too much. Nine years ago, a woman died on the beach when she went too close to sea, and two weeks ago a foreign tourist died in spite of her good circumstances and is an investigational accident. Since 1942, no one has died in an attempt to commit suicide except for these two tragic accidents in recent years. I also point out that just west of a ordeal is the home of residents and tourism in the Western Islands, the land island crew. That port is closed for months each year, and nothing is done to look for the root cause. Meanwhile, travelers in the Western Islands sit with empty hotels, buses, and restaurants. A respectable president. It is of great importance that the islanders cannot be at the same level as other citizens when it comes to taking tourists to the island of Elysar, with the shortest possible voyage from the Pacific, which must immediately be re-evaluated and then adding a new ship on a call to be used for a new port throughout the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u8	A respectable president. In the query to the highest. On Monday, I traced the most devastating situation that is developing in the affairs of tourism, and there is no other way to say it. It is a serious matter when we see the pressures now being made on society's infrastructure without reimbursement to meet the necessary reforms of the interior because of the growth of tourists. In January the number of tourists was as great as in June 2012. We see reports of serious accidents in people and people at risk in busy tourist areas. And the pressures of law enforcement, health care, and the road system have become more serious. If we're going to meet 1.5 million. Visitors a year can be likened to the average country of some 70,000 people in addition to the 330,000 people here. According to one estimate, a nation of some 330 thousand cannot make wood for 400 thousand people of their own tax dollars unless they make serious sacrifices. We then have to accept our own poor health care and a poorer road system than we do. There are ways that these 70,000 people who are here at any given time will contribute to the introduction at the same time. Tourism is said to make so many jobs and to make so much money. All of this is true, and this is an important and effective industry. But every other industry has a national profit. One of the tax revenues of the article today beyond the income tax from the companies employed in it is the value tax in lower levels. If it were adequate, the rest of us would be enough to pay just a merit tax on lower levels and no income tax. But more is needed, and it is a fundamental problem that we are facing right now, at the outset of the article itself, playing out initiatives in ways that can be increased by tourists so that this will not lead to the real welfare loss of all Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u9	V.E.G. President. I spoke here in the council's work yesterday about housing matters, which included a good review and analysis from the Industrial Association, which consider the great need for less and less expensive apartments to handle rent markets and/or young people who plan to make the first purchase. Hv. paritaprevir At the end of the Helgi, Hjörvar used this message to suggest that it was the possible solution to a problem that was too high a interest level, i.e. building them just less, that would be the answer. I found the comment quite interesting, in the context of a loan program available to consumers at a housing market. The question can be asked, " Is the price - insurance policy being added to the head chair and distributed during long loans, or 40 years, does not kill the cost of borrowing, and has led to the actual purchase of more and more expensive purchases? ' Also, we can ask, " Is the thinking of a new generation not changed when it comes to housing, square meters, and the expense they really want to place in an extra carton? ' There's one thing we're a what? However, a senator agrees; the loan system wants to change and call its price insurance the right name, see the variable growth in which the lender values real interest and the real cost he offers to the borrower. In such a loan environment, the law of supply and demand on this market are more likely to work, to increase the population's cost of cost and transparent costs. People prefer to tie the cost to every square meter they invest in and be more careful about when they first make an investment. The important thing here is that we should achieve common goals, i.e. to reach interest levels. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u10	Mr. President. I want to make a subject for the novelty at the highest level. The Minister of the Interior to offer, apparently a presentation, the idea of bringing the road round, highway 1, to the East Fjords, so that it leads the longer way with the beaches rather than from the Breið Valley to the Shire. It is well - known that there is an extremely sensitive subject within a quarter. There has been no consultation with the council members of the district, so I know and may not exist. What makes this even more fragile is that there is no valid transport strategy, so it is natural to wonder: Is this going to happen? Does this mean that there is some adjustment in the priorities of money, which, in fact, cannot be promised, is involved in making road projects? I would now have thought it all right to wait on this until both four years of transportation and a long - term schedule had been completed. Of course, Mr. President, it has become quite shocking that we need to live with the situation that there is no approved transport plan and actually have a two - year hole in that environment. According to law No. 33/2008, on a transport plan, has a clear legal obligation on each transport sector to provide such a strategy. There is no way to put it that the government does not respect the law of the land by not even making an effort to bring up a new transport program for the council. The shame and ganging of this group of paintings, apart from today's tragic little money, are spent on this, for example, by the economist of the industry's economists today, that the infrastructure now recuperates slowly and bites. [[The president calls.]] We need 1% of GDP in order to keep the cost of road loss, 22◯24 billion a year, just to keep us gone. What an ambitious state of government in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u11	V.E.G. President. Today's business magazine reports that the property of foreign citizens at government bonds grew by 5 billion dollars. in January. [[Up front.]] It shows that in the end of January, a total of 24% of government bonds were owned by foreign citizens. Their property in government bonds was 208.5 billion over the last month, and it had increased by 46 billion in one year. This development clearly reminds us of what happened here in the wake of the 2008 collapse. Why does this happen? Yes, this is because Iceland's Secret Bank is inviting these companies to a growing party of few people who don't hear them. Now, when it comes to the next month's sale of 200 billion dollars, you have to admit that you don't fully understand what is going on in the world; now that there's a scrap of about one third of the same amount you're trying to get out of, and that's part of getting rid of it. It seems that the National Bank's growth policy has become an independent economic problem. It's not only a problem for people and businesses who are in the extreme interest here but it's, to this respect, also to undermine economic stability. It must be time for men in the Federal Republic of Iceland to observe the consequences of what they've been doing now, a rare increase has taken place in the United States' last spring following the collective agreements, in clean pank and unnecessary, and has resulted in a total of 50◯60 billion inhabitants of the Icelandic economy who have purchased government bonds. [[The president calls.]] They will not ask for a moment or a time when they will rip money out again and be able to pull their feet off the crown.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u12	Mr. President. For a long time, the weather has been on the back of the network regarding the delivery security of electricity, and people have fought for the ringline of electricity and fibres. Today, some 10 megawatts are produced in the Snowhouse activation of the West, and then people have to rely on the maintenance of the home line. More often than not, diesel generators are being run when the power leaves. It has been a long time to examine the possibility of activating the Whale River in the Undeterred at Beach Today's work in full - time work and inspection. [[Up in the hall: Now you're talking.]] This project is used as a novelty class, but other projects have been trying to reduce the protection profile and have been being cut off by the current government. This activation option, in turn, would be produced by 55 megawatts and would have a tremendous impact on both the potential for electricity ring connection and to disappear from diesel stations and the same way to build up a industry that would use more energy than is available today. Then I'm not talking about big business but smaller projects that fit into the Western society where, of course, there's not much land space. The Westerners want to define themselves as a smoldering region. You are looking at the potential for an impenetrable structure, and there you are up to the government to support the work, to get a conclusion in this material, since the cost of linking the energy produced in Whale to the current system has been high in man. [[Up front.]] Now it is in the hands of the government to speed it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u13	V.E.G. President. This time, I'm going to make a statement about what has been published in some media about the cost of cancer patients here in Iceland compared to what happens in our neighbors, which we often want to compare with. In the magazine Power, the supportive community of young people who have been diagnosed with cancer, an article was published by Jón Eggert Víðisson, a director of the Branch Committee of Transgressors. For one thing, it says that since 1983 the cancer sufferers'credit parties doubled. There's a big difference in that in the countries around us. At the same time, there was an interview in the media with the Ragnheiður of Guðmundsdóttir, who has recently been diagnosed with terminal cancer, which says that having financial worries at the same time is being dealt with by a life - threatening illness. For example, a magazine of power contains a number of Icelanders who were fortunate enough to live abroad in the face of this severe illness. It compares what they had to pay in Iceland with what they paid abroad. They say that in neighboring lands, they hardly ever had to pick up their wallet. Jón Eggert describes what happened to him when he was living in France, where he never had to pick up his wallet, and a social worker handled all his cases that affected his illness. Then he also mentions what we know, that chemotherapy causes limited functioning in most cases, not to mention high drug costs. The same is seen in the experience Ragnheiður the Guðmundsdóttir Ragnóttir. Among other things, it says by permission of the president: But in addition to Ragnheiður pressures of coping with this new role in life, for the next few months, Jehovah's Witnesses experience anxiety over financial concerns. According to her, it is very expensive to get seriously ill in Iceland. At the end of this article, we will note that several people have opened up a fund to strengthen the individual in the fight ahead. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Do we like Icelanders like that in Iceland? [[The president calls.]] If people are not calling for a change in this by means of the telethon, which is about 80,000 names. [[The president calls.]] Well, I'll say it, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u14	A respectable president. This has been an interesting discussion about the pink tax that has made me think again and again about the power of consumers, especially women, in the economy. I have been reviewing a book that I read long ago about the effects of women as consumers, which included the fact that women have an amazing impact on which a car is bought at home. The men actually think they're choosing the car, but that's because the women make the men think they made the decision. I'm not saying there aren't any men out there, and maybe in here also, given the look of horror, at some point. Congress members who really control what car is bought but I find this fun example and fascinating to think of what women can really do as consumers, how they really change the world. The power of consumers as a whole can be very great, and we are not necessarily making good use of it in Iceland. Maybe occasionally when we're late for a while, we're going to buy Arla products. But I've been thinking about this in connection with Arion's sale of banks at a stake in the Shimanium, where some of the best friends were actually sold to him at a lower price. What makes this case particularly gray for me is the fact that some executives are involved in this very questionable stock market. Why should the officers not buy in an open eviction like everyone else? It's also interesting that there are all men who are there to share some cookies. Yesterday, I met a woman who was so offended about this matter that she had to trade a telephone company. She said it's a lot of trouble, but if you really wanted to do what you wanted to do, you had to do it like that. Otherwise, nothing will change, and I'm wondering, you respectable President, where I'm standing here, what the hell am I still doing in business with Simmann?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u15	Mr. President. Yesterday, I spoke here about the Borg and the Lands Bank. I can see that the Secretary of finance is a little tough on his Facebook page today, including I guess it's due to some kind of recommendation. Government senators have agreed on these and other matters. An attempt to choke the case, I believe, is in the form of the Landsbana, returning a report to the Bank County to over 120 pages that later brought to us legislators. I wondered who should make the effort to read it, but you probably have to do it in order to get to the bottom of this unfortunate situation. What I was going to do as a subject here today is the hole west of Melum, the hole where we're going to build an Icelandic teacher's house. The Guðrún Nordal has been very busy trying to keep us concerned about how we treat our country, how it can be treated, and how it is available both to us Icelanders and, of course, to tourists in view of the growing stream that for example, a considerable amount of money can be taken in and directed into what is part of our foundation. At the same time, attention is focused on the highest. The prime minister is more interested in destroying the expected billions, at least we are about 500 million, in some stone park just around us, while we are stressing how to get this important project started. We can do so in various ways, as we left greens are tireless. The potential for hypertomism is huge, including in our resources. The priority order seems to be clear for the highest level. Minister. He's protecting here old instead of building new ones, whether it's the House of Icelandic English, the Lands Hospital, or whatever else it is. [[The president calls.]] It is clear, more dignified President, that it is the highest priority of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u16	V.E.G. President. The University of Iceland has presented a decision to take a sports teacher to Reykjavík from Saturday's lake. Two reports have been passed, and they paint too dark a picture of university education on Lake Saturday. The main reasons for the university are the reduction in students and the cost of attending school on Lake Saturday. If the cost of going to school is clearly measured in the scattered areas and compared with the expense of the capital area, all study will go to the southwestern corner of the country. Therefore, it is inevitable to consider the role of the University of Iceland and whether he is actually able to maintain his work in the country. The members of the Southern District agree to look for ways to continue the study in Lake Saturday. Especially in recent years, funding should be considered for studies taught outside the capital area. There is a reduction in the number of preschool sports teachers compared to the reduction in basic school students in the classroom. Clearly, the main reason for the reduction is the change in study length from three years to five, not the location. Hence, it is normal to take action to change and improve the school arrangement, as was done in preschool studies when attendance at the end of the study was slowed down. School directors have not been given this opportunity to straighten out the cow and meet the student development, and if this university decision is realized, the result will be huge for society on Lake Sugar, Blue Forest, and high school. Then it is not limited to sports teachers. Rather, it gives a tone for what will follow that if the isolated economic policies of the individual institutions, regardless of total interest, it is clear that there will be a dose in that all educational institutions in the country will have more and less of that and other activities outside the capital area. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, then, this decision cannot be merely a university decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u17	A respectable president. Last night I sent the highest. A letter from the president and secretary of the Oval Office asking me to get back to the Senate to correct the information I gave in a speech yesterday. I did not get to the rosary and have not been allowed to correct my comments until now, however, it has been granted to Senator Ásmundur Friðriksson to replace me for some reason. If he had any thanks for it, that's all. In a statement I made yesterday about a number of fatal accidents in an attempt to commit suicide, I based on information in the media that there had been six fatal accidents in recent years. That's not true. Now these reports have been updated, and there are some fatal accidents, not a specific number. I haven't made it back, but to 2007. Since then, two fatal accidents have taken place while at least nine people there have been in grave danger. These minute details don't really change what I'm talking about, but it's right and it's kind and it's my duty to correct this here. [[The president calls.]] However, I did not see entirely why for other members of the board, members of the board, to do so in my place when the president was fully aware that I had requested to arrive immediately on the rosary to correct these comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u18	The president wants to say for this given reason that this morning the president's wish came from what he wanted. A senator to address the President's conference board after discussing the activities of the council. Of course, the president was not aware of the subjects of the discussions that were presented under the program at the council until they had been delivered.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u19	A respectable president. I just want to come up with two quick suggestions. One is that the program will be extended by at least 15 minutes. In my opinion, it would be nice to extend it about half an hour so that people can find out and say what they need to say. As for the past President's conference regime, he is also used as a matter of premeditation, and in the Senate, he is saying one thing. A senator has something to say about someone else. A senator who saw what happened. A senator may wish to be able to correct immediately or at least to take some action. Therefore, I would prefer it if it were permitted to request an introduction to a conference board of presidents between discussions in the council's work. To say that I think that the problem was solved simply by extending the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u20	A respectable president. I'm just gonna have to make some corrections. President. I did not wish to speak up about the President's conference board to correct these comments. I asked for it to the secretary of the Oval Office immediately yesterday to correct them. Since I did not get an answer, I asked for the word for the Senate this morning and had the message that it was because of an adjustment I wanted to make. However, I was told that if I was to promote this correction, I would have to ask for the word for the President's conference manager, so there was another senator who escaped from the platform in advance of the council's work to replace it with me. And I'm sorry, I didn't think that was appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u21	For example, the president will not have much wording about this in any other way, but he received these messages that the president referred to earlier and handled them correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u22	A respectable president. I was the head of committee opinion on behalf of the welfare committee, on which all the members of the welfare committee are on, well. 4th, including That's the north side. In advance, J. Sigfússon's mask, and in this excellent committee a great deal of solidarity was reached for the bill and for the change proposed. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to hear it. Councilmen pay the bill and this change of vote in view of how well the work was done and the committee cooperated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u23	A respectable president. The issues we now take to heart are a great deal of justice and a very good example of the benefits of European cooperation in which people are allowed to free themselves from violence by their own government if their own government chooses to build them up for an urgent welfare service. Today, many people with good health learn that they will have to wait another year for hip replacement surgery. It's an intolerable policy, and it is very important to give people the choice to be able to take action elsewhere if the government decides to arrange matters in this way. We stand for the adjustment proposed by the committee, confident that it will not be new to bring people on our front terms and prevent them from taking advantage of the benefits of this directive. This is a great deal of progress, and it is vital that governments be forced to finance the health system in a natural way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u24	Mr. President. As mentioned earlier, I am taking this case into account. Because I am not a special fan of the arrangement there or of the service directive as such a change in induction, which, of course, is part of bringing the welfare services closer to the marketplace. On the other hand, it is based on a good solidarity solidarity that was created by a health committee designated a safe way through the introduction and interests of the Icelandic health system and the public interests of the world. That makes me very happy. So I'll stand up and move the adjustment and, of course, recommend that it be accepted. Then, depending on the circumstances, you can do it with the standard bill. I believe this will lead to the induction in a way that allows us to make full use of our opportunities to do so in terms of Icelandic conditions. Hopefully, this will motivate us to work down a waiting list and to live in general so well that health care in our country will not become a special need for people to serve abroad.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u25	V.E.G. President. We in the United States support both the bill and the change. Today, in society there is a loud call for increased financial support for health care. It is vital that we increase money into our system. We support the changes made here by an urgent surgeon who is deeply concerned about the medical conditions that exist in the Icelandic medical system and is therefore important that ministers be able to take action to limit the amount of money that may be created and therefore control the priorities of money into the health system. I want to use this opportunity to sharpen the national governments in order to respond to the calls of the people and to add money to the Icelandic medical system. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u26	A respectable president. It's been some time since I asked for this special discussion. The occasion was a debate over budget and government budget last fall. Although the discussion has not been made for some reason, I have maintained this request, since it seems to me that the need for investments in the interior has been dropped. There is an example of how serious the situation has become and how much need is to blow into public investments, both in the maintenance and development of society's infrastructure. As I say, it was the law of this law. I thought I'd be allowed to see in plans now introduced at this upcoming stage that would be put in on investments. Now, after a very difficult recession, I think it is safe to say, to put the sails together in investments. Whether it was wise or not, I think that we were in dire straits, but it disappointed me to see that it really means to hold back only in the coming years. This is shown in a national budget until 2018. I think it's a lot of concern. Although it was only because of population growth, and we too have had frequent reports in this hall on the growth of tourists, just for these two reasons, it is obvious that they need to make investments in the infrastructure. Various standards are used in this, e.g. it is said that it is normal to develop a German of 4◯5% of GDP for public investments in infrastructure. This ratio has been around 2% in recent years, meaning that the need to accumulate. The World Cash Fund pointed out that by 2008, public investments had gathered about 47% on solid prices. Industrial organizations have pointed to this too, including In reference to the budget, the growing need for many public investments is at least 100 billion. The last time this morning was on the radio a fine interview with the economics of the industry, Bjarni Már Gylfason, where he estimates that the cumulative need for investment in the road system is 60 in the billions of dollars. You don't have to be a special scientist to see this. After a crash, there was quite a combination of investments. It was a total of 1,950,200 billion dollars on a government fund because of the tragic events that had taken place. We are simply witnessing that roads are getting worse. We need structure, this is a threat to the security of tourists and just a matter of time before disaster happens. We have also been told about the medical system. The houses are simply moldy. There is nothing but a manifestation that they are not maintained. It's not built up. Happily, this is a reflection of the demeaningness of society's property, public property. In fact, it is up to the budget that less investments are being made, which means that property will become dwindling and society will get worse. In the health system, comparison with other countries also supports this diagnosis. We are in second place when we make investments in public health care through the 2013 OECD statistics, and I don't think that's much different. There's only Mexico down there. This discussion begins with this feeling as well as the numbers. You see everywhere that there is a need for material building on wood, housing, roads, equipment, and so forth. Of course, you ask yourself, " What is the government plan for this? ' [[The president calls.]] Does the government face this need? How will she cope? Has the highest. Secretary of the budget is concerned about this? I'm worried.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u27	Mr. President. During recent years, public investments have drawn a great deal behind the shock we experienced here when the banks fell. Then it could be said that there was a set priority in cutting down so much in public investment, and it was obvious that it was trying to protect our transfer systems, the social security system, and was less likely to reduce the consumption of the common business of the State, because it was clearly necessary to take practical measures somewhere. We find this very severe in the midst of a public investment. I thought it was the numbers. A senator noted that it would generally be good to keep the government investment around 4◯5% quite high, but if we just look at what has been happening in the state through the years, the investment since about 1998 has averaged about 2% of the world's produce. We've been much lower in recent years, just in 1%. In recent years, though, we have done so slightly, expecting 1.3% this year. You're absolutely right. In the long run, a senator is far too little of a public investment. Here we are confronted with the question: Is there room for such an investment? Each increase of 0.1% would mean an increase of 2,2.2.4 billion in public investment. 1% means 23 billion a year in an increased investment. Is there room for that? What's official figures tell us right now is that there's very little room for an even bigger public investment. In any case, they would have to have some way of making that space. This is because the private sector has taken on an intense and long - term approach to an investment. We know what a remarkable project and what is going on in the secular world. The private sector's investments are considerably increased, even to the point of going over the long term average. It only reduces the distance that the government has at the same time. If we look at other economists, such as unemployment, and whether there is some relaxation in the economy over our heads, we will see that there is virtually no unemployment and the relaxation is gone. In fact, the late bat has recently increased its interest in economic conditions. All of these indicate that there is little room for the Kingdom to take more of everything. But I agree with what. A senator says that we are faced with a number of urgent assignments. The good news is that some of the projects that are going on today are running out. In this way, we will see that there is a 51⁄215 billion gap in the years to come in which older projects are being completed, such as the North Sea tunnel and other very expensive projects. What we have in front of us is not just the construction of a new hospital or a construction project with him but the construction of the road system. There we are faced with a huge task in itself. I think we've been holding on too little in recent years. In front of us, we have a new boat for the Western Islands. National Security calls for helicopters. Various public buildings have prayed to get to a level of construction, whether we speak of a national archive that was a little involved in the discussion of the budget during the winter or the House of Icelandic literature, a new office building for the General Assembly, portworks, the National Park on the Þingfields, etc. We face a very challenging task that is creating this space. In part, waiting for funding to be released from existing tasks is a patient task. In part, we need to adjust our sails along the wind and make sure that our willingness to do better in the investment field is not out of harmony with what is going on in general in the economy. Of course, this space could be created by bringing together in the affairs of the State, but I do not have much solid solidarity in the council to draw the situation together to allow this space to exist. It's a bit of a problem when people want to raise their salary by 7% a year, as we have been doing, watch their job take over and create new jobs and big investment levels at the same time. [[The president calls.]] [[What about...?]] It is a very important matter taken up here, but we will need patience to be able to do a great deal of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u28	Mr. President. The road system needs structure. Because of the number of tourists, law enforcement needs to be intensified and the pressures of health care have also increased. If governments drag their feet into the infrastructure, travel services and investments in it are in danger of human safety and health. Added to this is the national cry for medical funding through a list of signatures for which Kári Stefánsson is available. The government claims that they will respond to that call. The activities and activities produced in these areas will be expanded if nothing is done. Two measures are likely to be taken in order to protect yourself from expansion, to cut down other activities, or to raise taxes. The right - to - do is a better - believer to choose an operation, but it is not allowed to be maintained by road, law enforcement, or health - care systems. There are few large mails left. The majors are social security and schools. Is it possible to consider paediatric cuttings? Should the government refrain from raising housing benefits and not attacking the problem of a housing market? Eliminate the elderly and the poor, perhaps set mass restrictions in schools and reduce the number of teachers? I think even right men don't think this nasty list is worth fighting for, especially just before elections. By the other way, to increase taxes, the right management can adjust its own actions and take back income tax losses that are enjoyed by revenuers as well as reductions in hunting costs, and set energy taxes and fiscal taxes, or increase tax levels in order to achieve high income taxes. I think I'm most likely, especially after I've heard of it. Secretary of finance earlier, that the right government will do nothing. It won't build up, don't cut down, and don't raise taxes. She'll just think that she's gonna be out of the election and hope that too much damage will not be caused by neglect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson for bringing this up. These matters, public investments, were discussed in the payment of budgets and also in the payment of the income-side of the budget bill in the fall. It is a fact that everyone recognizes, that public investments are at the minimum and far below the average. We also need to recognize that there are certain growth signals in the economy, so it is important that we consider public investments in connection with other economic signs. It is my opinion that in connection with the payment of these cases, it would have been better for me not to go to the expanding tax dollars, but rather to look to public investments that are not an unnecessary need to build up in these times. Of course, there we too need to examine employment investment. Hv. paritaprevir The Steingrímsson Steingimsson, a saying, quoted the findings of the Industrial Association on various grounds of the budget. It presents a major concern for this matter as one of the greatest weaknesses of the Icelandic economy. It's like the highest. A minister clearly says there is a problem, and there is a choice. There's a possibility that you can't do everything at once. For example, there is no way to reduce taxes, maintain business ventures, and make big public investments. I disagree with the ultimate route. The government began to think that we must respond to the increased need for public investments, and people have given us important work to do. We've been talking about transportation. This is what has been called the hole of Icelandic learning. It is called for an attack on our manuscripts on the UNESCO world calendar. Almost every day, we discuss the tourism industry's largest export road. We do not operate in the commercial world, as we should. Indeed, there is an opportunity to do better in this matter, but both can and will not be released. Of course, we need to make money so that we can improve our investment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u30	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. This involves talking in solutions, finding solutions, and finding opportunities offered in this discussion. I, like others, stress the fact that business ventures in government sales will be used to pay off the State's debts because the state will spend the huge amount of money on interest payments. But for this reason I would like to conduct a proposal here that was made during the last term, and it is a suggestion that the state will collect its income on the more tens of billions of dollars that it contains in the national special funds. In this way it would be easy to go over four to five years into the infrastructure that we really need, to build up a new land hospital, to fix the road system, to remove single - build bridges, to fix ports, to bring the whole country into light, to strengthen the Land Guard, to build up tourist homes, and to care for the police. A respectable president. This is a suggestion made during the last term. This is the solution. If this route has gone, then the interiors of the country will be strong and will be strong in five or seven or ten years. Then the opportunity for future generations is so far better and the opportunity for the future for the political community to reduce taxes, even further lower worth taxes, and nurture the generation that builds on the land for the future, which will result in paying the pensions of nursing and disability to the future, for the population is certainly increasing by changing its ageliness. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking all members of Congress to look at this proposal with a positive attitude, because this is the solution we need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson for bringing this up. Each man should be aware that Iceland's infrastructure is about to collapse. I don't think it's some monomerial operation to fix our infrastructure, it's a long distance, it's something we have to build up ever and ever, and it hasn't been brought up. To illustrate, the West has been promising new roads since I was born, but I am still driving the same road. It may be time for us to reconsider how we measure what wood needs to be placed at any given time. This is not something that happens overnight. It's supposed to happen in the decades ahead. We need to get started and we need a long-term plate. Changing your mind will not always mean changing your mind forever. Perhaps the reason is that an Icelandic economy has not been equipped to accomplish so much, it is too much work, too much vent, or too much crisis to do anything. Sometimes it just takes cleaning up and doing things. The roads need to be fixed. The mold needs to be prevented and fixed at the local hospitals. Police must be supported. We do not have a safe country when it comes to a travel service that is a revenue source that we really need to take more of, i.e. Today, the tourists, with more than a thousand people on the roads of the country, are using our infrastructure. It's just a matter of course, trying to get something from there. I think this is something we need to work together for a long time. We haven't done that in the past, so now it's about doing it for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u32	A respectable president. The most popular television show today, impassed, is about corruption in the highest places and poor transport. Of course, it is popular because it reflects Icelandic reality well. It's Iceland today. One of the most effective ways to ensure the safety of tourists is by transportation. V.E.G. In his speech, the secretary of finance notes that major projects are taking place on road work. But what plan is being worked there? Has there been any transport plan taken care of during the election period of the current Parliamentary period? There have been two or three attempts to implement a transport program, all of which have slipped into the sand. There's no plan. No job management, job management, or project work-in on these topics. Of course, we're talking about a limited part of the investment problem that we face in Iceland's economy and in the government of the country. We live under it, it's a certain luxury problem, getting lots of tourists here. But we're not dealing properly with the infrastructure. In the world, things are being handled differently. In Italy, Italy's government aims to reduce the number of tourists from one million who come to five fishing villages and reduce stress and access until it becomes a solution to the situation. In Iceland, a new marketing campaign is presented to attract even more tourists. V.E.G. In this morning, when asked what she will do in the tourist security, a professional minister announces that new requests for security at tourist locations will be introduced at the beginning of the next month, and the work will be made to speak. [[The president calls.]] It's a pleasure to know that now that the end of the season is at the end of the ballast season. The government found this sentence: Then the works shall be spoken. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u33	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. It is quite clear that the investment rate in the infrastructure has been too low, but let's just review the requirements that are called after further donations to be met. The signing authors quoted here as to health care are provided at least 50 billion. In transport, telecommunications, and ports, we are calling for some 20 billion a year that we can easily add in the years ahead. Then we can add to the education, law enforcement, national security, development cooperation, the distribution system of electricity, security and immigrants. We can easily climb to 100 billion. If all these requirements were to be followed, we would easily add 100 billion to us each year. What is the answer to those who speak the most in this challenge code? Their answer is: Well, you haven't raised your hunting fees. Yes, there may be 5 billion people in some dispute between humans. You put down the high income tax. Yes, there are another 5 billion who, in fact, all classes were going to secure the election. You took the energy tax off. Yes, he was put on an agreement that was then betrayed, and we let him slip out just as the former government had planned. Then we complain that we are paying taxes. They say we're paying taxes on high-priority employees. However, the duty of customs, merchandise, and decrease of income taxes in the middle-class country, which are the rest of the 5 billion, is included in it? No, I don't think so, Mr. Honorable President. That's 20 billion to the 100. And there's another side of the coin, and it's the question: How are we going to earn the money to do this? How has that discussion been conducted here during the council when there is a vagueness in these matters? Yeah, this is where it laughs. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall. It's just hope, irresponsibility of that town is complete, and it's never been different in his Senate work here, complete irresponsibility, and nonverbal reporting. [[Up front.]] It's just laughing when this discussion is taken up, and there's talk here, and it's out of the table. [[The president calls.]] I think, a respectable president, it's time for the council to take their responsibility in discussing seriously how we're going to expand the cake in this community, so that 11% of some cake in the future is not needed, that 8% of the slices become the big cake that it is enough to close matters there and elsewhere. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u34	V.E.G. President. It's fine that this discussion takes place here at the General Assembly. It is all too seldom that we discuss these matters, intensification, and so forth. In a two - minute talk, you can take only one or two classes of languages. I'm going to go to a little bit of transportation. The fact is that all today's transport activities were determined in the past governments and began. There have been no new forms of transportation in the history of this government. This has been a talk about a road program that has taken place in the past few days. A respectable president. This has been discussed with small investments, but I just want to say that at the time of our trouble, 2007,2010, it was granted 132 billion jars. for transport in the infrastructure of various projects, and we can see how they work today, both to expand jobs and to create more traffic security and to further cooperation with rural society. There is no question, Mr. Honorable President, that there is a need to be given in this regard, but priorities are needed, and this need to be considered. What I mentioned in the past government was also a business campaign. Even if that was not the main point, it is important to keep that in mind. That's why I say for my part: I like it very much, and I'm very happy that it's inserted into the investment, as it were, the new home. We certainly deserve to, Icelanders, to get out of a house where workers get sick from molds, and we have to close divisions, we owe it to the people. On this point, there is a high solid agreement here at the General Assembly, as noted by an approved Parliamentary Directive on the construction of a Land Hospital on the Ringway. It was a pleasure. But we also need to consider that these factors are transport projects because in several parts of the country, they are still very poor. [[The president calls.]] It is not a question of whether one makes it between position A and B at a certain time, as is often the case here in the capital area, but a question of whether people will be able to move on or sit on their heads.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u35	Mr. President. We'll talk about infrastructure in Iceland. The government has drawn its feet in these matters, and in reality, she should be charged with her fees for that. It would be worth the effort to get some money that way into the Kingdom box. [[Up front.]] Dags, yes. V.E.G. The minister of finance boasts of projects that took place during the first term when we were in a situation where we did not have much work to do. At that time, there were a total of 3.5 billion in the West and in the North Sea tunnel, which is now at the end. V.E.G. The minister of finance thus speaks that there is nothing to be done until it is completed, and this certainly is a disgrace. People have not been able to do so. The budget does not show that there is much to be expected in the future, in the building up of the welfare system, and in our community, which is certainly needed. Whether the stream of travel is increasing or not, the need is greater. I always have this discussion that the state should be in charge of public projects when investors are investing. Where are private investors doing? Now here in the capital area. There are more than one economic system in this country. Does the region always pay the price? When something goes wrong with private agents, and then here in the capital area, does the state intend to hold hands and do nothing? The government has not done anything during the three years that the government has been in charge of transport construction. Even if a man can flaunt Fallos, it's not a big enough flag, the highest. Secretary of finance. A transport program must now be developed and shown by players, that they are going to meet increasing tourist flows, and that they will build the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u36	V.E.G. President. No matter who did what and what is to whom, it is clear to all that this is our project for the next few years, i.e. ... toimprovement into society's infrastructure. As many have discussed above, much of the money is missing. I've just arrived, like other members of Parliament, from an elected week, and I suppose we in the Southern District will not be able to determine the greatest point where money is missing in the country. We can mention, like others, ports, and public transportation. And because local members of Congress are being talked about the Land Hospital and are signing, I would like to mention health care in the country. Travellers who arrive in the country also make good use of this medical service, and I think there is a great need for health care in the country and even better than health care in the city of Reykjavík, although there is a need for a new hospital. We can count forever; the infrastructure of tourism, the education. So that we are not just talking about what is missing, we can also talk about a positive subject that is the one to which we put 500 million on the last budget that is scheduled to end 2020. Perhaps we need more of such programs for when we will finish building up our infrastructure. I agree with the highest. Secretary of finance, when he says that we may be at the point where we are no longer contracting. Then I think it's our job here to find ways to raise the money the state has. [[The president calls.]] It's easy to mention taxing pensions, tax returns, return fees, etc. in that material, but I think it's a project we're supposed to focus on, how we increase our income to this infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u37	A respectable president. I appreciate this subject, but of course, it's not possible to go in two minutes very carefully over things to such an exorbitant group. Iceland's infrastructure needs to expand faster now than before because we now have a lot of tourists creating pressures on law enforcement, health systems, transportation, and other systems. That is why it is important that we hold on to it when it comes to it. In my opinion, none of Iceland's infrastructure is more important than the health system. So one day a new Landspians will be welcomed, and hopefully the general health system will, however, be a significant factor in the discussion now and on the basis of that. Travel in many parts of the country is in a bad condition, even as it has become famous, especially on the West. In other places, such as in Eastern Europe, there are other types of transport problems, such as Internet problems. Although the Minister of the Interior has appointed a task force on February 5, 2014, offering proposals for telecommunications, it is worth no mention of following a talk. paritaprevir It's Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir that there's a lot of stuff in Iceland that we can't leave to our privates. The Internet shows what remains to be seen in many areas where private workers can carry out their ministry, but they do not. Then the state can't intervene. It is often such a problem, at least when it comes to the online issues that we must try to solve, not only with more money, but also with increased resources, but also with the challenges we face. In the last second, I cannot help but mention that we received a letter from the East with a complaint that people have to compete for these funding, these 500 million mentioned earlier, but I'm afraid I have no time to describe it as we have seen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u38	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion. I just think it's one of the biggest solutions in the political world, how to stop society from decommissioning. They are. I like one of these discussions, everyone realizes that public investments are too small. V.E.G. A minister listed a number of fine examples of how the infrastructure is shrinking and how the need for investment is growing up in large and small areas, in the road system, in the Field, in the health - care system. It's screaming, it's obvious, but if we're going to be in responsible politics, we can't stop there. Now we have to think, " Then what? ' One thing is obvious, I think, crystal clear. There is no way to finance an inaccessible business on a government fund by postponing maintenance projects. It's not sustainable. It's gonna get on us. In the long run, it means that society is devoid of quality. We're going down to 2nd Division. That's obvious. This is not how we can proceed. It is called for solutions. Of course, it's true that there's little room because there's a lot of private activity going on. It's an old story and new Iceland. The economy always overheats. Is that because we have too little economy? Is it because we're in too small a coin area? Do we want to discuss whether we could solve that problem by becoming part of a European currency union? Would it be wise to use money that is involved in a single operation, not in 100 billion corrections of debt with a very vague purpose and goals, but rather to use them to build up the wood for the future? [[The president calls.]] Should we look at how we can increase our income of resources, e.g. energy resources through sea cables and also by marine resources? Then we have to make plans. Plans also include a solution, a visual image of how one person can take over another so that he can provide for a country in these areas. There, the government gives wealth, unfortunately, and it's pathetic.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u39	A respectable president. It's a little strange to listen to the indentation of some here who want to describe how a grand investment campaign was made in the past government when the fact is that it was so greatly reduced by public investment that we took down about 2.4% of our land production by 1%. [[Up front.]] So people are standing here and saying: " It is the campaign that is still being enjoyed. It's not like that. It was clearly cut down in public investments, and we are getting out of that valley again. It was a set priority, and it must be recognized. I have not been wasting my time in that period in particular. I'm just calling attention to the fact that we're coming from a very low public investment. The main time I used earlier was to describe the need to make sure that there was room for a much greater public investment, e.g. Up to less than 151⁄220 billion a year. At the present time, with the interest where they are, with reference to the fact that this is a haven of economic activity and a period of expansion taken over, all you have to do is take care of in this. I'm going to say, though, there are some very important public investments that aren't that important. For example, if we bought a helicopter for the National Guard or investing in a ship for a new Western island vector, that is not a very important public investment. On the contrary, it can be both national and economic benefits and has virtually no effect on the growth within the country. This may be the circumstances that exist now that we should look to such projects as we move into the currently formed space, which I mentioned earlier, 51⁄215 billion in all the years to take up a new assignment. There we need to put in large investments, such as hospitals, and we need to work very hard on the road. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u40	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis which aims to promote the cooperation of Iceland and Greenland. I present this synonym with an eight-man hard-headed group of elite men. The senators, Bjords the Unnur of Brá, the Konráðsdóttir of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, Óttar Proppér, Birgitta, the daughter of Jónsdóttir, Helgi Hjörvar, the Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir, Kristján L. Möller, and Páll the son of Valur Björnsson. The aim of the Parliamentary decree is to strengthen the relationship between Iceland and our good neighbors in western Greenland, both for their benefit and for us. Likewise, to establish a counteractive medium of information and experience from two countries that have long been brought up under the Arctic. This suggests that just a relatively short time ago, one of these nations has a historical standard of independence. Not long ago, the Icelanders came to gain independence. The other people, Greenland, are well on their way to increased self - control and finally to independence. I believe, Mr. President, that we Icelanders can from our experience in the independence struggle with increased cooperation in many areas, with important experience, with Greenland. We have seen that the Greenlanders have taken a very decisive step toward self - control, and the clearest example of this is, of course, 2009 of the 2009 national law on self - control as approved by 3/4 voters in Greenland. This proposal, in effect, is systemic. It involves more cooperation with the Greenlandites, so to speak in all ways. The main focus of the Senate arrangement may be fourfold; environmental protection, culture, education, business, and service. It is also killed on other things, such as fishing cooperation and transportation as well as health care. This proposal suggests that the Council gives support to the historical steps taken by our good friends and neighboring nations in recent decades to increase self - control, and it is suggested in 15 numbers that further cooperation with Greenland is being undertaken. I'm going to allow myself, Mr. President, to strike fast the suggestions described here: First, it is suggested that an agreement be made that guarantees full tax freedom for sale of goods and services as well as that other barriers to financial gains are eliminated. Second, to stimulate a link between the youngest generations, e.g. with together classes in preschool, high school, and, as a matter of fact, all the way to college. The Greenland Fund, which has long supported cooperation between citizens and partners in the two countries, is suggested to be extended to facilitate the voyage. Third, to improve the cooperation of the universities of the countries, e.g. by ensuring that university students can get a course held between universities and countries for final testing, as well as the setting up of a small amount of funds to provide a boost for the joint research projects of these young scholars in the north and also the role of this fund in enabling teachers at the university of both countries to participate in teaching temporarily in the other country. It is true to say that since the proposal was made and the first time it has been made, there is evidence that such cooperation is actually going along the way that is also being developed over this particular aspect of the Senate resolution proposal for reporting, to cooperate with the Faeroe Islands. That's a very positive development. Fourth, develop a strong research team between the Greenland Environment Agency and the European institutions on earth, ocean, weather, fish, environment, and, in fact, other fields related to the north. Fifth, to offer to cooperate in the fishing field in an effort to increase the yield of the marine resources of the countries. It should be noted, then, that by means of the proposal, a complete report on the Icelandic Oceanographical Association under Þór Sigfússon's lead in a green - American fishing field is presented. It shows that although Greenland had long been very prominent in various waters of the sea, it is still true that Iceland has mastered its production and marketing so that before each kilogram of water products sold on the market, it is quite less than it is for its Iceland. For example, the difference in cod is 123%, in gray trash 78%, and in ocean shrimp, which can be said to be a market manager of 50%. If these teams were to increase the value of a Brazilian seabed to the Icelandic level by cooperating with the development of yields, markets, and improved management of resources, this would lead to an increase in the income of some 3,000 million dollars. A hundred grand. In contrast, it is near the object of the Danish government paying for the Greenlandic. So if you could cooperate with the two countries in this way, you could say that they had taken a big step to increase their self - control in the future. Six, it is suggested that the government employs a formal agreement between the activities of the European Commission on temporary training in companies who are involved in the development of business ventures between the nations. Here it is unavoidable to point out the excellent initiative that the ambassador of Iceland, who is actually an attorney in Nuuk, Pétur Ásgeirsson, had in establishing such cooperation with Iceland's president for a short time and has led to the development of young Greenlandic people who work for companies who are linked to foreign relations and trades with Iceland have come here for a short time to study and to gain valuable work experience. Experience shows that this has led to a large and improved link in the area of an enterprise protocol, which has led to a pay trade between the two countries. 7th, take the initiative to assess the possible cooperation of medical and health services which would then be the basis for a framework of a major cooperation in that field. Now I note that the last government I sat in made an agreement in 2009 that has led to a significant increase in the cooperation of health care between countries. Thus, many Greenlandians have to go to Denmark for a variety of complex activities that could be done here in the country, and there are also geographic reasons to simply have the East Coast placed in such a way that it is best to perform a variety of services as the remote part of Greenland. Nine, to promote the cooperation and counselling of water sources in Greenland. In fact, Iceland has played an important role in designing and building monuments in the area of the hydropower workers. There are a lot of ideas in Greenland to use even more large glaciers to produce electricity and Greenland themselves have custody of their resources, of course, but there are ideas such as these. that in the future, they will produce electricity even from the wind on the north side of the East Coast. Similarly, about similar paths are producing large amounts of electricity from water that are thought of by prescients, part of the Greenlandic nation, to move to Europe, and possibly through a string surrounding Iceland, which would relate to a string from Iceland to Scotland or other European countries if the agreements and agreements took place in the future. This is an important opportunity for both nations. 10th, prepare an agreement on services with potential activity on the East Coast of Greenland in connection with sustainable resource use. It seems to everyone about the various plans that have come up there, and it certainly has not worked out, neither for oil use nor for the use of other resources in the earth. But even if that's the case, it's as I said before, the Greenlandians themselves, who have a plan for their resources, and if it were to happen, they'd take up the use of various resources on the East Coast themselves have said that it would be best to be performed by Iceland. Thus, it would be beneficial for both nations to consider this and to promote cooperation in that area. In the 11th place, to work together on a vision of new Arctic ships and to evaluate the benefits both Greenland and Iceland of the so - called Arctic ticket. Today, there are two types of roads across the Arctic, i.e. the so - called northeast, then the ones we know better, and the Russians have been developing. But the other is clearly clear that, based on projections, the first thing on the so - called midway across the Arctic is ports in Greenland and Iceland, which would be a fairly logical stage and station before reaching Europe as far as Asia's transport to Europe. 12th, to improve cooperation with the climate and to form formal environmental cooperation, especially with regard to the increase in water traffic between Iceland and Greenland. It is suggested in this concluded resolution that there will be a particularly attention to the impact of increased shipments across the North Sea and increasing shipping throughout the North Sea. It is clear that even though many people may see it in the form of a mirage, this also carries a very significant threat to marine purity in case of an accident, for example, on large tankers. Similarly, when a large cruise ship has been up under falling cables on the East Coast, there have been times when man - made plugs have been crushed. We too, Icelanders, must prepare to react in the interests of the international community if such an event is causing us to react. 13th, to promote all aspects of the Western Council's activities in order to further strengthen the political, cultural, and commercial ties of Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland. In fact, it is stated in the original form of this resolution that the regular annual meeting of these three nations is to be specifically accomplished. Then be sure to be able to have another carrier of this proposal, huh? paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdóttir, president of the Western Council, has torn up this matter with great prowess. That is exactly what has been called a summit that seems to be about to establish a regular and formal place each year. 14th, to ensure that there is increased cooperation with Greenland and that there will also be an important factor in promoting cooperation between Western areas. For example, this country is looking forward to a great link between Greenland and the northern part of Canada that lies west of Greenland. In that same language area, we also need to keep an eye on these areas because cooperation with them may in the future benefit everyone. In the 15th and final, it is suggested that the Allied Council pursues indigenous policy policies in Arctic regions where the emphasis is primarily to support their approach and their impact on issues that concern them both directly and indirectly. A respectable president. I have completed my brief explanation for this synopsis proposal that I make with eight others. Councilmen. It consists of 15 detailed joints, each representing a specific factor proposed to improve cooperation. I'm of the opinion that as cases have developed, it is our duty and that we have a great advantage in strengthening all aspects of our relationship with Greenland. [[The president calls.]] This is the efforts of our senators, who have given us the issue of this cooperation, and that is why we make this resolution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u41	V.E.G. President. I'm here to accept, of course, the proposal of this council. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson, former U.S. Secretary of State, is moving and has taken priority, inviting other eight members of the council to stay on, which we, of course, are happy to do. The proposal to promote the cooperation of Iceland and Greenland is as strong as possible. A senator has done so well, and the 15 points mentioned in this article have been made with a much more detailed, well - developed report. The motion is simply this, by permission of the President: ▪ The General describes the support of historical steps taken by a friend and neighboring nation of Greenland has taken in recent decades to increase self - control and to assign the government to promote ties and cooperation with Greenland by...◯ and it is listed as 15 points on how the General Assembly can provide support to this project and take part in implementing these plans. These are 15 points and I'm going to take a few of them for a discussion at the start before I come to the factors I wanted to make up the main topic, i.e. Transportation between countries. First of all, it is the freedom of choice. Yes, of course. We've put ourselves in place and agreed, among other things, to make a suggestion. A senator on a free trade deal with China, and recently a proposal for a vacation trade deal with Japan has been proposed. All of these are ways in the new world of increasing vacations and flows from country to country. I agree, of course. This is followed by a link between the youngest generations of the nations. A respectable president. May I guess only of the great and good deeds of the son of Illugi Jökulsson and of them at the French Boy-Hrafn son of Jack, you will forgive, between which there is nothing truly admirable. [[Take it up to Mr. Hrafn.]] May I also mention one thing that many people may not think about. We're already inviting children to Iceland to study swimming. The Italian teacher himself admires this, mentioning it because we need to invite children to our home and train them in the swimmers. It also speaks of increased cooperation between colleges, of course it is a great project. Team five is suggested to provide cooperation in the marine field in an effort to increase the yield of the marine resources of the countries. I've recently had a meeting with the manager and owner of Brims, who introduced to us what he's doing in Greenland as well as the fish industry that's, of course, great, creating work, and fishing. How interesting it was to hear a person tell us how a fishing industry is growing up on the western coast of Greenland! More companies work with Greenlandics, such as Filter Processing at Nes shop and other partners, e.g. on the stage of fur. I have recently made the subject of a new fruit policy and have been critical of the financial resources available to the National Institutes for Research. We must bear in mind that because of climate change and global warming, many people feel that their hairy bodies are going north in colder waters and that they will be much more involved in Greenland law than they used to be. Is it not a good work, then, that cooperation with this important body is being carried out in order to become a sustainable fisher? In section six, there is an interesting point to apply for an agreement between the activities of the countries. Now I don't know how that job is run in Greenland, but the network of industry is big and powerful, and with a lot of activity in Iceland. I'm pretty sure that in cooperation with them, we can be very supportive of the Greenlandians and work things out. The seventh team speaks of medical and health care. May I remind you, sir, a respectable president, that there has been considerable reports of patients coming to Iceland from Greenland? But I don't know exactly how much and how many Greenlands are enjoying medical and health care in Iceland because of this cooperation. But this is something that we can offer to our cousins, Greenland, to a greater degree, where the flight is, of course, very strong. Then I come to what I might want to do more than talk about, but there is traveling and transportation between countries. I want to say that I once went as a minister of transportation to Greenland, and it was interesting to have a conversation with the Greenlandns about this. It was of great interest to learn that Greenland wanted to make a great increase in flight between Iceland and Greenland. Whether it is from Akureyri, Kreveravík, or Reykjavík International Airport, we are referred to here as having the possibility of having our travel service in Iceland to offer trips to Greenland, Iceland. It would be a very important deposit, and it would be very useful for us if tourists who want to come to Iceland and visit us and look at our beautiful, fine nature would also have a chance of a day trip or a two - day trip to Greenland to a greater extent than it is now. There's one question that I'm not terribly prepared to ask. I remember that during the discussion of increasing international flights, there has been a lack of a so - called air - travel contract between Icelanders and Greenlanders. I really think that it was said that was because Dane didn't want to. So I'd like to ask you why. Senator, former Secretary of State, but the State Department of State makes these contracts, whether or not he will and will tell us if I'm remembering the right thing and if there's any changes in my life, or if this may be a little bit of a tug between Iceland and Dana rather than the Greenlands. Yes, it is very important to keep this in mind because transportation is the basis for everything mentioned in the 15 teams set up here, increased travel rates, and higher flying opportunities. Of course, it doesn't have to be that when you talk to the Greenlandians, they complain most of all about how expensive it is to fly between places, especially when they can go to only a few airports, and we take an expensive helicopter between them. It then discusses other factors, such as sustainable resource use, northern ships that arrive sooner and later on and about climate cover, taking on increased cooperation in that area, where of course it plays into what I talked about the fishing grounds of these two countries. A respectable president. It says in one of the articles on the proposal, with the permission of the president: Despite the long history of the Icelandic nation and the Brazilian nation, many positive relationships are time to contribute greatly to their growth. Iceland is to show by its actions that it wants to lend both advice and admiration to the future of Greenland. It shall be my final statement that it should be our rivalry at the Council to accept this synonym before the Senate closes May so that the government can work on what is said in the proposal as it is, or something altered in the treatment of the Commission, to promote both national and national counsel.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u42	Mr. President. As a partner of 125 member of the Hyak Club, who has taken several chess trips to Greenland, I thank you very much. A senator for recalling the initiative taken by Mr. Hoffn, both president Hrafn President Jökulsson and vice president Robert Lagerman. Fifty trips in thirteen years. Let's not forget, too, the initiative of KALAKS, the friendhood of Greenland and Iceland, who has gotten hundreds of green schoolchildren and taught them how to swim. Hv. A senator then asks me about the flight and the air travel agreement. He is absolutely correct in saying that years were very hard on the part of a dance - moving authority against making such a deal. But the good government I sat in, along with the rest of it. A senator and a what. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, dealt with it with great weight. It took a long time to get these deals and just to get them started. But when they finally left, it was not difficult to negotiate with the Greenlands. On the second most recent day of 2011, there was a new transport agreement made between Iceland and Greenland, and it allows flight travel between ten destinations in Iceland and Greenland. This agreement covers a planned and trajectory between specific positions in Greenland and Keflavík. But bear in mind that the minister, the minister of foreign affairs, who made that contract had previously been the local minister, did not forget the country, since it was specifically stated that its authority also involved Akureyri and Elisar status. So between these sites there are now sources. Now Iceland's airline has more plans to fly to Greenland than Iceland does, and the fifth of Iceland's well-being airline comes from Greenland. So this is an enormous support by means of a U.S. Airway in the country. [[The president calls.]] It is most important that we expand our cooperation. In fact, in this field, I feel that we owe them a certain debt that we have been paying by making a very large group of new passengers to Greenland, a passenger from Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u43	V.E.G. President. I knew I wouldn't come to that empty cabin next to you. In terms of the air travel agreement, it is a great pleasure to have this review here regarding the agreement made at the end of 2011. It's absolutely true that it was part of what we talked about in those years, when I was a minister of transportation, how important it would be for the Iceland Air Association to promote this cooperation. When Iceland's airline is strengthening its flying fleet and changing, bringing new machines, I've got a feeling this is going to be the biggest break in the world. Let's bear in mind that this is a ◯win win, let's say, for the Greenlands and the Icelanders. It is good for us to be able to invite visitors to visit us whether it is a day's trip or a longer trip to Greenland. In this way we can expand the package, but tourists always want to get very much out of their journey, and they want to be looking at something new 24 hours a day but only right to rest before the next day. I also welcome - I knew that we in the country had a hawk in the corner of that matter - that at the bus transport deal made very well with Akureyri and Egls. In Akureyri, there is a small airline called Norlandair, and I am quite convinced that this is bigger than a fifth of the operation there. The only thing we're going to discuss right now is to show what's going on. It is both good to promote this link, as this synopsis suggests.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u44	Mr. President. Hv. A senator mentions what he calls a small airline from his district of Akureyri, Norway. It should be noted, then, that in recent years, as people have become more interested in the north, there has been an enormous increase in research, especially during summer and the whole year, in recent years. Norlandair is the airline that has almost flights on all these research guides. They go down and land on glaciers, and it's a traveller of scientists. I think I can say that there are hundreds of scientists and an enormous amount of equipment and equipment that this airline takes every year to Greenland and can be said that without it there were tests in Greenland, and indeed also in various areas around it, because they fly all the way to the east of the Canadian farts, not the one she is, just so that it is quite clear. We benefit greatly from working together and working with Greenland on the airports. Now a flight to Greenland is being made not only from Iceland but also from Denmark. But Icellands and Iceland's airline, there are no additional sources in the market. If you look at the source of your trip to Greenland, you may be aware that much more of them have moved to Greenland through the Iceland port or gate, i.e. with Icelanda and then with Iceland's airline to Greenland, not from Copenhagen. That's why the Greenlandians are putting so much emphasis on winning this cooperation even better. What we make up for is that tourists are in search of new and increasing experiences and being able to invite them to Greenland - whether on the East Coast or on two or three days' journeys, or even for a week, as they are currently available, to the western coast - increase Iceland's magnetic volume, since they can, in effect, strike two birds in one blow. [[The president calls.]] They can travel to two northern countries on the same journey. This is a steady growth for both nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u45	V.E.G. President. Hv. This is the subject of my question about flying, which both sides make a lot of money and get a lot out of. We've seen the increase in flights between Iceland and Greenland in Iceland's Air Association. And what happens with new machines? I don't know about that. I haven't studied it, whether there's an increase or a safer flight or how we want to think about it. I would now like to call the agricultural airline Norlandair little in comparison with others, yet large on national scale. I've seen preparations with machines where skiing is put under to land on the glacier. Then they pick up the skis once they hit the ground like Akureyri. Hv. A senator spoke of the transfer of scientific equipment and scientists to research in Greenland, and I have also seen my own eyes, which are admirable. At the same time, it was surprising to see how much equipment and tools were delivered by these small machines, which contain 20 people, to Greenland, and to the work there. Therefore, these short answers here, which have turned to the transport program, do nothing but provide further support that the Allied Council of Iceland should unite in agreeing to this council resolution in the winter so that this work can be started on further and in an organized manner, as presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u46	Mr. President. I hereby recommend that the Council of Congress conclude that support to the plans for international ban on the manufacture and implementation of automatic and self-controlled war machines and that the government will be assigned to further its progress at the United Nations and elsewhere where appropriate. The reason why I present this case, which I've been asked quite well in the media, is not future music, i.e. that it's really about killing robots, is that this discussion has started out in the big world. Last year, 2015, a number of prominent scientists and technicians from different countries met in a great conference in Buenos Aires and were challenged to self - controlled and automatic war machines, their development and production, to be banned. Since then, a number of scientific and scholarly students around the world have joined this educational movement and signed the text of challenges. There are very many of the world's top experts in artificial intelligence and the development of machines. These fine scholars warn us in politics that the development of these devices is far beyond the general public and if not taken to ban the production and development of these devices, they can be expected to become part of the general military and military defense technology of these things we have in the world today without any reasonable debate. Why is it so important? Yes, we know of self - controlled fragility values, or the so - called drawings carrying bombs and firearms. They have already been put into warfare in many parts of the world and have been used in a variety of automatic surveillance and warning systems, which still depend on human orders. This is true both for the monitoring systems and for the drags. So these machines are not new. Since the trend has been very rapid in the field of artificial intelligence and self - efficiency, we can expect that war machines with no human interference will soon be needed. It has not been particularly general debates about this very controversial aspect of modern survival that those who have come to know believe will change global warfare as much as the nuclear bomb did in its previous time, so this is really a change in the nature of world warfare. The growing opposition I witnessed comes primarily from the educational community. Among those included, e.g. physicist Stephen Hawking, as well as Steve Wozniak, Wozniak of the Apple Corporation. They both signed the Buenos Aires conference I mentioned earlier. At the United Nations, many people have been concerned that this discussion will take too long, i.e. that evolution actually becomes faster than the UN debate. There has been considerable opposition, e.g. from the United Kingdom, which has declared that they do not feel the need for a special ban on automatic and automatic war machines, as I have tried to translate what is called the English term "kellier rbots, " in English. There is a special campaign in charge of the draft campaign to stop self-controlled battle machines, or the killaller rbots. Of course, many say that stopping technology's progress will prove futile and will find a way to the battlefields of the world. However, we cannot overlook the success of the banning the production and use of chemical weapons. Similarly, through the United Nations, an agreement to prevent the development and production of laser weapons designed to blind the enemy. Although I think it is preferable to believe that even more meeting laws are being achieved in banning the development of various types of military devices, I think it must be a soil for seriously discussing these killing devices, which will have as much impact on war operations as on the formation of the atom bomb, as I said before. Why does this change anything? The effect may be that the hand of man is nowhere near when it comes to combating machines. For example, what has been pointed out is moral values; who will be responsible for the fact that war crimes are committed by machines, not by humans, since human judgment is not involved. If war machines are placed on the battlefield, won't this make it necessary to send a man? As a result, the temptation to go to war could be even greater, i.e. We could see an increase in warfare through the appearance of the machine machines. The result would likely be that the consequences of the war would be more common in civilians than in soldiers. In fact, this trend has been in the war effort over the past few years, so civilians are as targets as much as soldiers. That's the question of the responsibility I mentioned here, the moral question, i.e. Who was responsible for the damage done by civilians? Those who advocate increased use of machines in war say: That is good, for machines do not experience hatred, or they do not experience posttraumatic stress disorders in the midst of war and such. But they also have no compassion. They find it difficult to distinguish between right and wrong, since evolution has not come from scholars in this field. The motion. I don't have to go on the technical side of the situation exactly, because I'm not an expert on that subject. What we do see, however, is that countries are working very hard to develop these technologies, and we see that the discussion is moving slowly on the international level. If this pace of development continues, we can look at something. So, along with my partners, I like it. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Steinunn Þóra of the Árnadóttir, and Svandís Svavarsdóttir, make it our suggestion that the Council will take this matter for consideration, that the Council of the Council describes support for an international ban and that the government will take care of it at the United Nations scene and elsewhere where it is appropriate, because this is exactly what Iceland, a military state, a small state, can do. We have nothing to do with losing out on this matter, but we can do good. The world scene is not particularly appealing. If we look at all the world's major military superpowers in their service within a few years, we might be seeing an even bigger war effort, a vague responsibility for fighters, apart from the fact that we cannot see the end of them. I've always been excited for any kind of science fiction, perhaps because I saw the Terminator with Arnold Schwarzenegger but young in years, and it may have had a lasting effect on my interests. But when it comes to such technological changes that may change war, we should listen; when the world's leading scholars encourage us to listen, we should listen and listen carefully. I suggest, Mr. President, after this discussion, this proposal goes to the Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u47	Mr. President. It's time to celebrate. A senator had been affected by Arnold Schwarzenegger at his time, apparently not forgetting anything. This proposal is like a piece of science fiction, but it's a big deal. Because I have to get out of the field, I can't take part in any further discussion about the proposal, but I wanted to come here to state entirely unprovable support for it. I believe this is a matter of great need. It's perfectly normal for us members of the High General Assembly of Unauthorized Iceland to agree with this matter. It is of course, I think, and entirely, in the spirit of the foreign policy that the government has advanced from the government to the present supreme. Ministers of foreign affairs and other executives have the means to provide the international bans discussed here. In this winter, we have already discussed how machines, robotics, and artificial intelligence can affect Iceland's culture and Icelandic language. This involves another development related to the same growth rate and can lead to untold future disasters that result from the use of artificial intelligence and automatic weapons of war that may in due time make their own decisions in order to achieve their aims in human warfare. Therefore, I believe that if you can, you should absolutely forbid such a thing. Hv. A senator had a fine example here, which was just in my mind under her speech, which is of chemical weapons. Yes, it is still a pillar and diffuse use of chemical weapons, as we know was used in the war in Syria last year by ISIS against the Kurds. It is an earlier and much more ugly experience, and worse, just in that part of the world. Yet, the big nations agree not to use chemical weapons. [[The president calls.]] The examples of World War I led to such prohibitions. Therefore, I believe that such a ban would be effective, although, of course, technology cannot be stopped, but the spread of weapons of that kind can be prevented. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for his input here and celebrates it. Hv. There's a senator on the foreign matter board. - I hope the committee doesn't talk there, says why. A senator, but I hope that the committee will discuss this matter, that it will not be allowed to die on the committee, as it happens sometimes by Congress. [[I don't have a say in there.]] I mention it, too, linked to it as a dog. A senator said that the threat of these weapons is also that it is a far more complex matter to produce a nuclear bomb and to produce the chemicals needed to produce a nuclear bomb than to produce these weapons. Once this technology has become fully developed, automatic machines will really have to be relatively small. Thus, we may be seeing that not only are large military powers that are expected to be at the top of this technology but they may be less of a problem for other groups -- why. A senator named this terrorist organization ISIS - getting over such a technology. This too is a concern, for it could become very widespread if very decisive measures are not taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u49	V.E.G. President. I'd like to discuss this proposal for understanding Iceland's support to establish an international ban on the manufacture and implementation of automatic and self-controlled war machines, but I am exactly one of the proposal's partners. In recent years, we have seen the development of automatic, self - controlled machines and the use of artificial intelligence technology so that they can attack and kill on the basis of their own decisions without the presence of a human hand or a human brain anywhere near there. I don't really know what the words get about how scary it is because in recent years we've seen the effect of killing and bait being guided by human hand and human brain, it's been in warfare, and it's scary enough. That is why I feel very important and important to participate in and propose a judicial proposal on this subject. The report speaks of this new technology being so effective that it will produce a new arms race if nothing has to be done and that the world will simply face a revolution in military technology. For example, consider the changes that took place when a person took turns using powder to use ammunition as well as the development of the atom bomb. There was only a nuclear weapon in both history discourses. paritaprevir Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and also in exchange for words. paritaprevir Katrín and Jakobsdóttir's daughter. paritaprevir Reckoning Össur's Skarphéðinsson earlier. I'd like to follow the wording to say that we know something that is following in international affairs that there is tremendous tension in the world now, and there is a arms race in which nuclear weapons, which are much more complex and more expensive, and more difficult to use when it comes to production and, of course, weapons that work in much greater scale than automatic machines can do in any way. However, I find it very important in this discussion to remind you that it is already working to develop nuclear weapons as the military powers, the nuclear powers, even hope that it can be used in some form of stripe warfare. So I think we need to keep our heads up when it comes to these matters. It has been wanted to burn, especially when military experts speak, to try to use a language that does not describe anything that really happens in war. It is often called high - speed attacks, targets, and destruction, and death that result, at times, can be a side effect of some kind. In recent years and decades, we have seen this happening in a number of wars, which may be the closest to the first Iraq war. In my mind, it is the closest thing to mention because it is the first war that comes to mind. There we saw a news story showing that there was a high - accurate explosion of strategical targets. This image has changed naturally recently, including by means of a communication network in which people on earth have shown pictures of what they experience and what is happening. All of this has been horrible enough, even though the self-destruction of the fighter is not taking the top of it. In my opinion, devoidance is enough already. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, in her speech on the moral side associated with these issues, i.e. whoever is responsible if it is a robot who fights the wars on behalf of someone and then the temptation that it could lead to, that the threshold for going to war will be lower, for the warrior does not have to answer for the fall in his own camps but will take the edge of the innocent. It is clear to me, then, that even though some noncombaters want to argue that it's pointless to resist the technology, we have to resist it. The International Society has to ban such killing machines, for if you don't try to keep up with your legs, I'm sure that this kind of device will see and it will be used. I think history taught us if there are machines, they're used in war. Therefore, I believe it is of utmost importance that a nation such as Iceland should contribute to the international battle if it is not simply a leading cause and speak of peace and disarmament and weapons. I hope, therefore, that this proposal will be well discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee and that we will sit here in this chamber in a few weeks and accept it, thus contributing to our efforts, expressing support that the production and application of self-controlled and automatic war machines will be banned internationally.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u50	A respectable president. It is a very simple bill, however, but I believe that if it becomes a law, it can in its simplicity have a very good effect on the Congress and democracy and the Congress of the country. We are now members of three categories, a bright future, Piranha, and the Commonwealth, and the bill of conversion to Congress in order that the President of the Generals or a member of Parliament may need a greater proportion of paid votes to be elected as the President of the Generals. As it is now, it is enough to get over half of a paid vote to become the elected president of the Generals, but the proposal assumes that the elected president will be the right one who has received more than 2/3 parts of a vote. The bill may be trivial, but I consider the matter very important, and I know that it was discussed in part at a Senate Committee. Nevertheless, we want to make the suggestion, since this has repeatedly occurred in the Senate work, and much of it is discussed with us in the matter of improving our Senate work and getting us out of a variety of old bicycles in them and improving our culture. I think there are some things you can do, and this includes that the President of the Generalis is represented not only by the administrative body but also by a significant part of the less part of the council. In other words, he represents the entire body of Congress more. Today, it is generally elected by the president of the General Assembly when it is elected with all votes. It is not uncommon for them to be shaped or protested, but the president is already seated in the safety of much more simple things. Thus, it is a very high trend for the Parliamentary president to wait until he knows what the European Commission intends to do, what the government intends to do. When it's a great deal of heat in the Senate, I feel that the President of Generalis actually doesn't think he has the authority to go against the greater part, and he often becomes rather a passaver in his work, so I crash. If the President of the Generals were represented by 2/3 members, he would be on a stronger basis, could be more effective in behalf of the council, and for the council of the super-strong influence of the Commission. He might point out that he is not only represented by the greater part but also by the lesser part. Therefore, he would have to use himself to introduce, for example, the political launchers early into the council that is a problem that has faced they are late entering the council. He might view him as having the authority to promote reconciliation when there is much debate. I often feel that a president is awaiting the initiative of a prime minister after all. I think it's pathetic. I feel that the President of the Council is supposed to be authorized to use it, to bring in warring parties, to try to make peace. He must have been authorized to set up issues and negotiate a program so that he will have to listen to everyone's point of view during the council. The head of the Council is not supposed to be the ambassador of the government, as we say in the report. He's not supposed to take orders from the executives. Therefore, this proposal is to promote the Senate. If we choose a president who is more responsible for the entire body of Congress, he will be stronger with the Commission and I believe that with a stronger president, with a president who feels that he needs to listen very carefully to the views of all members of Congress - and I'm not saying that I'm not very pleased with the current Supreme Court. The general president, who is elected in this way, does not have a solid basis for standing and to use himself more fully. This is part of creating that foundation. I think it's one of those things that you can do in Congress to improve the Senate. In fact, I started by writing this bill in prison that it should be put in the Congress Act that the bills and council laws might be fired before they were confirmed. It came on the day when it was quite simple, at least in my opinion, to write it into the Constitution law, but it is a pleasure to do that such suggestions come from the Board of Directors and I decided to wait to bring a bill about it and see what the Constitution Committee does. Fortunately, they are offering suggestions on national pay, even though they are not for members of the Parliament to make a case in national terms, but for the nation or for 15% of voters to be asked for national fees. I think that's a great improvement. I feel that after considering the Senate work and witnessing the challenges and knots that often arise in the matter of Congress, there are two challenges that can be made. On the one hand, increasing the strength of the U.S. president of the Generals by giving him a rich commission and sitting under the cover of the entire U.S. Senate, one third of its members have the right to make a legal case. But I believe that many members of the proposal felt that it would be an improvement for the President of the Council to have a stronger basis for standing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u51	A respectable president. This is a bill for a legal adjustment in the General Assembly of Congress, of the terms of the election for the President of Generalis. I think it'll be a great improvement if the bill goes through. It is worth a few words about how such a suggestion might appear to a well - respected president. This could work on some respectable president as some kind of attack on their work, but that is from time to time. We all know what it's like, if we just speak Icelandic and tell things like they are, it's like this in Iceland that it's the government that controls, it's in the power of the greater part of the World Congress, the simple majority of the Generals. A respectable sitting president, and according to tradition, belong to the majority of them, an independent party in particular. It is inevitable, a respectable president, no matter how well-informed, hardworking, wonderful, and dignified the President is that the pressure of that respectable president on the part of the government party is subject to pressure. That's very unusual in a democracies community. It is very unnatural and should not be like that. It should be that the president of the council is the president of the council. Now I know that it will probably not go well with the council president in general, but it has to be. We live under the circumstances that the council is weak toward the government and must correct it. It must be corrected by various means, including these. It is a very simple, very reasonable suggestion. I believe a president who is not supported by 2/3th Congress should not be president. Furthermore, I believe that both a sitting president and a number of other candidates for that position would be easy to obtain. But it's like whisk. A senator before me said that when it comes to difficult situations, where there's a very clear limit between the government and the back of the Council, it seems like there's a problem and there's a problem. I know that a respectable president is very uncomfortable for himself with such things, and I believe a president would find it very difficult for his fellow members and the government to do so, for if the President of the Generals is a member of the government class, he will, of course, support the government. And that's a problem, a respectable president, there's a problem in a country where there's supposed to be a separation between the legislature and the courts. I even remembered going so far as to say that it was a very big problem. But it is often very simple to solve a very big problem. Sometimes it is very simple. One of the simplest ways to fix much of what's happening here in this town, a respectable president, would be in my opinion that 10% of the ideal people could insist on terms of national decision-making made by the General. I still find that change very, very self - esteem, and I don't appreciate the grueling language of those who are at all disagreeable. Of course, it's because I feel that way. There are other things that can be fixed at the General Assembly than one of the things I'm probably considering is that the U.S. President of the Generals is elected with a greater proportion at the General Assembly. Something else I'm happy about, and sometimes I don't understand why it hasn't been so long since that ministers don't sit as members of Congress. I find it very strange that the Ministers have a vote at the Council. Also, I believe it certainly has a very unusual impact on the progress of the Council and President's work and the inevitable priorities here, on decisions about what goes on in votes and when and so on. Then I'd like to say, too, that I have a special interest in a sitting, respectable president, who is also in shock. 2.m. Witchest. "The Einar K. The Son of Guðfinnsson. I think he's a good president, but I think he's in a very bad position when a conflict comes up, like a frame plan in the summer. Then a respectable president cannot be a real advocate of the entire council. He can't if he belongs to majority. There are other ways to go. One idea that I have sometimes proposed, but not had the opportunity to reason with enough people to see all friends, is the idea that the President of the Generalis can't be a member of a government party. In fact, I think it might be a better way to keep it so that the government could not be a part of the council, that it was a rule that was always a minority government, a government that would have to fit, and it was the Council that controlled. It is not natural for everything to be in the same hand or in the same hands. And it is not natural for us to vote for votes at the council election and to choose for ourselves members of Congress that the highest members of the council each one of them get a commission in the stock market. That's a very abnormal arrangement, in my opinion. I don't think I'm gonna change that. In view of the many ideas I could suggest to improve the work of the council, to promote democracy and to sharpen it in Iceland, I believe this proposal, which is proposed to the initiative. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son, be very for granted and very modest. I can't figure out what reasons might be against it, if I say exactly as it is, except for them, that the government is supposed to have the authority on its hands, no matter what, something I've never heard anyone reason, and don't know how it should be done to argue. It is more true that humans do not speak of these matters than they offer evidence. There may be evidence, but I haven't heard it. Not even that. This is a modest suggestion. I think she's very self-centered. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Steingrímsson and other representatives of the motion for presenting it. If the Council worked as if I thought a greater part of the public would think the Council should work, then this proposal would fly through, it would be done quickly and definitely not enough with it, but I think that a respectable president himself would vote for it, for no reason at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u52	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the authentication process. The movers are the ones that say here, "The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son." Lips. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson and his wife. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir. The suggestion is simple. It's as follows, with the permission of a president: ▪ The General concluded to hide the President of the Generals in order to set the rules and primes for changing the existing law, however, should follow electronic documents that show the laws or documents to be changed in final form to identify the changes planned. The aim of this proposal is to make the Congress as well as the general public slow down in making clear the precise changes made by law-employing laws and the changes proposed by the Council's Council. This directive suggests that co-registered changes and proposals will be submitted electronic documents where the laws or documents intended to be modified will be shown in an indented way. Sources for setting rules on these might be found in 1st. Thirty-seven. Parliamentary law. The electronic document with marked changes is expected to be available on the General Assembly web site with the corresponding modification criteria or proposal so that it can be clearly identified exactly what changes will be. As is the case today, a study of the effects of changeCalm is difficult and time - consuming, and many laws may need to be examined to see what the real change would be. In addition to improving the convenience of those looking at and evaluating the effects of a transitional project, it would provide an environment far better than that of a presentation of proposed law change and thus contribute to a greater level of justice. A respectable president. This suggestion is part of my efforts to facilitate the public access to what is going on here. As I recently said in a speech, I believe Generalis is very successful. Once you're used to using it, it's very easy to find things there. However, it is also true that people who are not accustomed to gawking in legal language and Congress documents and the like often fail, and they do not realize what is going on at one time. One specific thing that I can address is a recent case of the General Protection Act of Nature, which caused a huge misunderstanding in society, about what was being done exactly and when, not strange as it was a change in the bill that was a change in other laws that were old and that were to be taken into effect later; somehow very complicated, even for councilmen, if they were not well involved in the matter, much less so in the public, and no wonder that it would be a big misunderstanding. This can happen, and it does not have to be as large and extensive as a controversial case and a protection law. All of us who work here at the Grand Parliament are familiar with the fact that bills can be hard to digest; they may require that you have many documents open at the same time as ◯Indirection to these changes in some way yourself. As most members of Congress often need help from a secretary or a member of the Committee to create a so - called Change Types, which shows what the changes are. Reading lines such as this: 3 is generally easier to grasp. Section 12. Section 8. track No. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. I think that by merely saying that the order here at the Council that, when changes are made, it will immediately be clear in so - called human language, or human law, let us say what changes are planned, so that all things are very obvious. I think it'll improve the security in that the public should be more alert to what is going on here. The media may also find it easier to relate matters, so there is a greater danger of misunderstandings. However, as we members of Congress know, even simple correction may be a very difficult problem. Generally, people believe what the media say. If a first story is wrong or a misunderstanding of some kind, correcting it can be a challenge. Well, I guess. Part of that problem has to do with how Congress matters are presented. Of course, it's all a good tradition, and it's not in itself a problem for people who are accustomed to this and who have time for it, but I think this would greatly improve the understanding of the public and the media of the matters presented here to change what already is or other matters that are being presented. I think it is proper to mention also another matter of Congress that I have presented, which is a suggestion for the computer format of Congress. There's a reason why I had this in two separate suggestions, and it's because the computer format for Congress is more important. This is a suggestion that Congress documents be submitted to computer formats so that software can be created to handle the content of a panel such as paragraphs, seminars, chapter divisions, etc., that all references, e.g. when a law is referred to that should be changed or referred to the Supreme Court. At the present time, Congress documents are in a way that do not make such software. Such software could, for example, perform what is suggested here to be done. However, I thought it was important to suggest a separate proposal for the resolution of the authentication proposal because I am not asking that computerized documents be made as fast as possible, but I also believe that this proposal can be applied in a rather simple way as part of the Generalal Act of the General Assembly, without the use of written documents. Of course, it would be handwork until the documents had become computerized, but it would be a normal part of document processing here at the General Assembly. The so - called substitutions-writers, sometimes made by members of Congress, are made or made for themselves, which are not published on the Generals website. Of course, they are not accessible to the public, they vary in shape, and the methodology may vary somewhat. Then I also think that there is a danger of double action. I think if we were to take together the work that already goes on to create a variable-report, then it would be to work according to the principle set out here, not much more time - consuming than what is already done, but I think that in all larger matters, one member of the council or one council, or whatever it is, after making or creating such a lot of changes- pacing, without anyone else knowing about it. I also think that if the Generals simply did this themselves, members of Congress could save their time, as well as the time of a member of the Committee to do something other might have done, whether it was a member of a party, a council, or a General or something. So I don't think that bringing in this rule would mean that there would be a lot of extra work on what is already there. In itself, there is not even this suggestion, a respectable president. Finally, I think it's good to think that even though we generals always get used to working in this environment - we get accustomed to general sleep and, as we have learned, I think it's very good - it's not the way it is for the civilian population. Similarly, it cannot be expected that all citizens who are interested in individual litigation groups or even individual matters will be brought into practice when handling a Senate document in the country to study one subject or another, or perhaps a case, or perhaps a few matters together. For example, if someone has a special interest in housing bills, it is a big business, and it would help the citizen to have access to significant changes. In fact, there is no more to say that this time, a respectable president. I hope this council proposal is fully treated by the council, and I expect that if the situation here was as the general public believes it should be, it would not be a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u53	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a resolution for the resolution of Salmon Hall's future structure to the Glafrastone in Mosfellstown. Transporters, along with those above, are Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Jakobsdóttir Jacobdótttir, Hjörvar, Össur Skarphéðinsson, Ottir Proppé, Róbert Marshall, Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir, Willum Þór Sæmundsson, Thordæmundsson, and Birgitta Jónsdóttir. V.E.G. President. The suggestion reads: In cooperation with the local authorities in Mosfellsville and the head of the Glafrestein Board, the Council of Education and Culture concludes to hide the Ministers of Education and Culture in cooperation with the City of Mosfellsville. Laxnesshest's guide must maintain the memory of Halldór Laxness, provide instruction on his work, and emphasize that the Mosfells band and town was inhabited. There will be the center of all knowledge about Halldór Laxness. Laxness Hall will also be a literary home where facilities will be conducted for research and academic work. V.E.G. President. In 2015, Halldór Laxness's Prize was 60 years ago won by Nobel's literary Nóbel, and for this reason it is time to look for a cultural building, or Laxness Hall, to Glakasteini, in Mosfellstown. Land has already been set aside and secured to build Salmon mansion by linking with the poet's home to the Glacrastone. A vision for the museum of the year 2004 Glafrastein was defined as a policy effort for the museum and the key findings were that the Glaskrastone would be one of the nation's main cultural sites and a well - known destination on the way to Þingvalla. The role of the Glafrrasteins would be to be the home of Halldór Salmon Laxness, a living museum covering his life's work. Clearly, the head of the head of the head of the head stands ahead of a class of precious places in Icelandic culture. The building work that has already taken place is exemplary, and it has certainly proved its value. On June 7, 2010, the gemstone was at peace with June 1, 2010. Section 4. track No. 104/2001, about housing, and is an accepted collection by museum law, No. 141/2011. So the house itself is, in fact, a collection and a relic that preserves everything since Halldór Laxness and his family lived there. The collection is made up of everything prepared, art, library, photographs, and documents. Research and communication options are inexhaustible, but it is important that the Agency can be assured of the future security both in the house itself and in storage. Today's work is very limited because of the lack of space in the house. To that end, a garage was launched for receptions, ticket sales, shops, and media show. From the beginning, that provision was considered temporary. Similarly, it was evident that staff facilities are unacceptable. Then there are parking lots and visitors to the House from the Þingalva Road. Since the opening of the 2004 Glakrastone, some 75,000 visitors have visited the museum. With good organization and the help of sound guidance, large groups have been succeeded. The place where the poet lived and worked will continue to attract visitors to the Mosfells Valley. The Mosfells Valley is the valley where Halldór Laxness grew up and lived in the longest part of his life, and the valley is the realm of history. Furthermore, in the valley there is a link to the nation's literary history for a thousand years. The Mosfells Valley includes the history of Egls, Ormbo's Guluga, and Hallfred History of Damsters. This connection is supported by the ancient harbors of Leiruvogur. It can and may be noted that the local people sincerely want to cultivate the memory of the Book of Nobel. Among other things, the country's Mosfellsville has put it in its cultural policy to celebrate the memory of Halldór Laxness, his contribution to Icelandic culture, and the world literature. It is the purpose of this synonym to suggest that Laxreshold that the Glafrastone of Mosfells will become a cultural site with the main emphasis on Halldór Laxness's life and activities, as well as a universal cultural site, with emphasis on literature, research, education, and communication. V.E.G. President. It is my wish and hope that this proposal for Congress will be given careful publicity on a committee but in the end, it will return to a future issue. and vote. As chairman of this proposal for Congress, I believe it would be the Allied Parliament to accept such a proposal in honor of the poet.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u54	A respectable president. Sometimes when it comes to Congress, I ask what it is for. This time, I'm a member of the Parliament's resolution, and I'm very proud of it. I'm even going to make better, since the report was removed and in the frontnote address. paritaprevir Ríkharðsdóttir Ragnheiður. The life of the Nobel poet Halldor Kiljans Marie Pierre Laxness was extraordinary, and it lasted throughout the 20th century. He lived for nearly 96 years and set out in Icelandic culture and the world culture. In my studies, I experienced that his contribution to the world culture was some and some have known Iceland by his work. I have also been preoccupied with national independence and independence. Iceland gained independence, became a republic, 1944. Iceland used its right as a republic to become a member of various foreign institutions, perhaps the formal independence. How, though, did the nation gain independence? I'm here, with the permission of the President, to quote the morning issue of January 10, 1956. Actually, it's about another man, Friðrik Ólafsson. It says: He is taken alongside Friðrik world's Ólafsson chess players. Yesterday, the name of Iceland was mentioned the second time in this winter of world news, in connection with accomplished achievements. In December it was the name of the Nobel Prize poet Halldor Kiljans Laxness, who was put on the name of Iceland. Last night it was the name of Friðrik Ólafsson, the chess master. I want to remind you that independence will not only be gained by approval of other nations but also by the actions of the peoples of the land. Those two individuals, the Nobel poet Halldor Kiljan Laxness and the master of Friðrik Ólafsson, certainly cast a glow on the land. And now, with this suggestion, we will honor the memory of Halldór Kiljan Laxness by doing more than having his house and home as a museum but by building a cultural center in the Mosfells Valley, where they will be handled by the Icelandic literature, especially Halldór Laxness's literature, because they will become an eternal subject of research. As the poet says in one of his headaches, there is always a search for the national community. With the permission of a president, I'm going to witness to the start of the Iceland Clock and read here: ▪ It was a time, says a book, that the Icelandic people had only one share that was considered to be money. There was a clock. This clock was hung by the fork of the lawhouse on your side of the Axes River, attached to a rafter in the throat. She was driven to judgment and before execution. Happily, after 70 years of independence, we have various shares. Among these are the Nobel poet Halldor Salmon, who has carried Iceland's husk around the earth. What is more, because what has happened in Iceland is that Iceland's University has created translators in other languages. You see, it was a long time, so translating Icelandic fiction was a problem. Today, the work of Halldór Laxness in English can be translated into other languages. Those students who graduated from Icelandic to foreign students have done some great deeds there. What is more: This is what other Icelandic writers enjoy. This body of interpretation is designed to honor Halldór Kiljan Laxness's memory, which will be taught by other Icelandic writers and artists on the map. Someone may ask: How much? That might cost something. But it's my theory that Laxness House could be somewhat sustainable. If people are interested, we can even run this sustainablely. I believe that the collection of the poet who wanted to become independent - no one else dependent, a writer, as I have sensed his imagination from reading his biographies, he wanted to be independent - could become independent of others, that the poet should continue his life with his unhinderedness. I hope the Senate will be so eager to accept this synonym. What's more: I hope we have the wisdom to do what it says, that there will be a cultural site in Mosfellsville, the Valley of Mosfells, in the valley of great history. That story deserves to be a cultural site there. A respectable president. I'm not gonna keep this case to myself for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u55	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of reform of the arrangements for the development of money, which I am with ten others. Senators from five members of the council. The point of the proposal is that members of the Parliament will be appointed to review the financial development arrangements in the country and make proposals for reform. The proposal suggests that the committee will be organized into six members, one from each body of Congress at the General Assembly. The General's Office provides the Commission with a job position, the employee and the necessary expert assistance as well as the relevant agencies of the government will be the advisory committee. The committee will submit its results with a report to the Council no later than ten months after the order date. It is one of the first duties of the State to operate a stable and solid currency for the land. Unfortunately, Iceland's financial affairs have not been properly controlled, and this requires that members of the Parliament study the matter thoroughly, pondering what has gone wrong, and making suggestions for improvement. Iceland's late bank was founded in 1961, with the primary role of operating currency in a stable currency, but it has been no better than a 50 - year - old centill's buypower has been reduced by 99.7%. During that time, the crew fell repeatedly. Efficacy was sustained and peaked at approximately 80% in 1983 in one year. After the banks were privateised and the crown's crew began to float, the amount of money increased dramatically, and it seemed that the harbor had no means of managing the increase. Thus, in just 14 years, the amount of money was only doubled, and eventually the banking system collapsed, the crew collapsed by 50%, and since 2009, we have been living in capitalization between countries because of a financial instability. Since excessive money production is without question one of the more important causes of this consumer currency, it must be important that the lawgiver take a closer look at money production in the country. Without a few discussions or without any special decisions at the High General Assembly, the country's largest amount of money generation has moved from Secret Bank to the institutions of deposit. This trend has taken place over several decades in the power of a new technology. Instead of money and coins, the people use deposit in banks as currency. This process of saving money to the agencies that the General has never discussed has led to great and serious consequences, as the bill further explains. I want to take this opportunity to mention some factors, including... By the fact that the harbor bank seems to have very little control over the money-making of its agencies. As we know, business banks create new funds in the form of loans, but when loans are paid back, money returns. The late bank creates only a small fraction of the money in the country. If a business bank lacks basics because of large loans on the Navy, there is no other option but to provide it with basics, otherwise he loses control over the interest level or puts the risk of deposit on banks. Thus, Iceland's late bank had to provide basics for banks while they were 19 times the money in the country during 1994-2008. In an effort to cope with the increase in money, the late bank rose in direction. He gave strong warnings about the expansion, but it had little effect. The banks continued to expand their loans at increasing speeds until it exploded. It is also noted that during 1986◯2006, there was an average economic growth of 3.2% per year. During the same period, the banks increased the amount of money on average by 18.6% per year, six times faster, and six times more than the economy was. This can be regarded as an important factor in in causing inflation and gangring in the country. The late bank tried to react repeatedly by increasing its height. They went from 5.6% in 2004 to 18% in 2008. The development of driving growth was not sufficient to reduce loan growth and increase in money, but it resulted in various adverse reactions such as influx on foreign loans and inflation in the gangs of the crown. You can talk about overcrowding in the crown's gang. The banks began to offer large quantities of gangstad loans. In 2008, the effects of too much money and loans were no longer on the line. The banks fell, and the dollar of the U.S. dollar went down at $63. of 120 K. The fact that the Secret Bank did not seem to have a chance of slowing down this money gain gain using its controls calls for a more thorough inspection of the council, first of all, the arrangement to hide the banks to make the money needed in the country, and second, the controls that the Fendolaban has to control the rise in money. Another problem in today's system of money management is that instead of receiving a currency exchange of the money that he needs to make for the money he has been deprived of the currency profits he has to make. From collapse, I think, the amount of cash in traffic has increased from 10 billion to 50 billion, relatively estimate. This is a 40 billion increase in the amount of money, and this increase is almost pure mint profits for the Sentred Bank. If, over the years, the secret bank had also taken on the electronic cash needed, it can be estimated that hundreds of billions of dollars of dollars in the form of mint economy, possibly up to 400 billion. Thus, the government fund is 300 to400 billion worse than it would be if the Sullaban were to fulfill his role in creating a modern currency for the economy rather than assigning it to the depositors. This is a great and great business of interest for the treasure of the land, for the people of the land, for the taxpayers. They need to decide whether we want to continue to extend this assignment to the institutions that have been so badly treated and overproducted money in the amount of money we have experienced. Another problem with the current system is how economically the economy is given up that the elements work as currency. In fact, banks are the debts of banks to those of us who own the accounts, and we're given up because the banks are always creditors. The currency itself in the country, or 90%, electronic banks, must not stop functioning because we can no longer go shopping and buy goods or do business. The currency is so important, these banks' debts, that it is inevitable for state funds to react if a bank gets into trouble and cannot deliver. Thus, on the whole of the banking system and on its debt, it can be said to be an inevitable state of responsibility. This is one of the things that could be corrected by taking a look into the situation. This inevitable state responsibility for the deep things also increases the risks of the banking system. Since the depositors can always assume that the state guarantees their limitations, they have no incentive to choose a bank that stresses safety beyond yield. The emphasis on banks and their managers, therefore, is to maximise their profits and profits, but this requires increasing the bank's risk ratio. We know the example of the Bank of Lands, which began in 2006, offering interest on loans that were the highest known in Britain at that time. It seemed that the public in Britain had no concern whether this bank was solid. He was fully confident that the depositors would be saved, for the public, 300 thousand customers, the bank for 4 billion pounds on the Icesave accounts in that country. These inducers, i.e. lack of interest in whether the bank is solid, led to bad results for the Britain and Iceland taxpayers. Then there is another problem that would be unsolved, and the committee could look into it if it did, but it is the fact that the internal insurance system simply does not reach its purpose in a small market. In Iceland, three large banks have more than 90% of the mains. If one of them was in trouble, the deposit fund of the depositors would never be enough to avoid a raid and a possible chain reaction on that bank. Thus, the government will continue to be moved to declare its state responsibility to avoid a raid in the event of it. Intuition insurance is a factor in banking, but it doesn't actually provide insurance protection on the land. It is possible that such a system will work in countries where there may be hundreds of banks that make up a social security system, but in this country it is not predictable to achieve that insurance effect. We need to look for other ways, including some. We may need to consider a way in which instead of assigning banks to create currency in their own form, we would rather assign the Sensitors to create the trust currency needed by the economy. A respectable president. Despite a number of legal reforms, financial institutions have not yet been dealt with the challenge of business banks'ability to create money in the form of deposit. This arrangement has become increasingly critical of experts here and abroad, providing both motivation and space for banks to increase the amount of money far beyond the needs of the economy. The former head of England's Bank, Lord Mervyn King, has called this arrangement the worst of all possible financial systems and has strongly encouraged reform. It is now long time and, in fact, absolutely necessary that the democratic elected representatives of the public in this country make an independent assessment of the structure of money, would think, and offer suggestions to reform the legislation, as appropriate. Whether he still wants to live with a currency that is, in fact, a creditor's debt, or better, it would be better to give out all the electronic currency the present calls for rather than just money and coins. Such currency, published by a reliable Secret Bank, would not be sold because individual banks were always payable. Bankers could not then expand money in the same way they can now. The gain of money production would go to the state for common projects and to reduce taxes, instead of increasing the profit of banks that seems to be high enough. While the improved financial structure is important, it is not, of course, the solution to all financial problems, but it is a very important factor that must be taken into consideration as often as half a century. This is it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-17-77.u56	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a proposal for a hearing of reform of the financial structure. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónánsson, 1st manifester, was very comfortable with the proposal and the basis of the case, this proposal for an order to be taken out of the budget and to make a suggestion for reform. I'm with a importer on this case. I appreciate it so much that we need to revise our system, both our financial and financial systems. I believe this is a very important proposal, as is the report behind the proposal, as it were. A senator worked for the highest. Prime Minister; report on possible improvements in the money system here, as reflected in the title of the report: a better financial system for Iceland. I consider the logical continuation of the work to be done by the council, as suggested in this proposal, the sort of assessment that will definitely be to shed further light on our money system as it is working today, and the possible improvements as a product of the work being submitted. In many ways, we face great challenges when we face numerous aspects of our economy. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson was doing well here on our economic history, on the scale of fluctuations, on the results of variability, inflation and inflation periods, ganglocks, property bubbles and collapses, and in a way that affected the collapse of the financial system, the banking system, in 2008, and how the money production affected it. This is not an isolated situation for Iceland. Such crisis and trauma have developed over the last few decades, with similar results, indiscriminate. This is made clear in this excellent report, to which I give a witness. A senator worked for 147 bank bank bank ice in the world in 114 countries since 1970. However, it has not been established to establish major changes in the population system, i.e. system changes, but we're not talking about the legal changes involved in the environment of financial institutions and banks, that of the financial system and of its multicultural institutions; changes in efforts to ensure security and stability, and changes in various laws as we know them. It may be possible to go into a system change and fall away from what is called a break - up system where banks can actually print money by installing and giving loans, this role that the Navy actually has, but has not had full authority, i.e. ... toleadthedelayofmoney in traffic. Hv. A senator made a good impression on how this system can exaggerate swings, fluctuations, whether in a contraction or in a swing, as we have experienced. All of this needs to be examined. That's why I support this case, and I think it's part of the revision we need to go on our own systems. It is hoped that the work this proposal offers will give further insight into solutions and improvement in economic management, whether in the national financial sector or in the financial sector. The first time I heard of ideas that a better money system, you went into the theory box, as it were, a respectable president. The theory of money is designed to form a theory that has evolved over the centuries. We know all Keynes'theories, which followed the crisis; he published this book on employment, interest, and money in an effort to achieve stability and cope with the high unemployment rates that followed the crisis. In any case, the breaking - up system, such as ours, has been exposed to increasing criticism, as well as evidence of a part of the system's collapse of the financial system and weaknesses that have been identified. It has also been pointed out that with all its controllers, mainly the growth controller, the bat has not fully held back the increase or controlled the amount of money, with the consequences. For example, over a period of 14 years, the sum of money in the country was 19 times. Then it is necessary to determine possible improvements. I reiterate that this is indeed both a reason and an opportunity for it, with the report that is the basis and the synopsis as it is established, since I am convinced that by the presence of our greatest experts and institutions in this field and by the committee of members of the Parliament who will work on this matter, such an assessment will be of great benefit to the challenges of the council. Then I keep in mind looking at money policy, financial policy, and financial markets. We are faced with the fact that much of the banking system is now owned by the state and that the bank property is very much in the discussion. The challenge is great, and it is obvious that there are some things that need to be taken into account and to rethink and take on the overall policy of our economy, economy, money policy, and financial policies. This burning question is presented in a report, so that I am about to conclude my case, a respected president, on page 6. 2 I find this quite summing up, this political issue on the banking system to serve the public. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The bread supply system has become increasingly critical. The former bank manager of the England Bank [Lord Mervyn King, 2010] has called it the worst of all possible financial systems and considers it extremely urgent to improve. I'm convinced that this case is important. As it is suggested, I am convinced that it can help us to reevaluate and rethink much in our economy when it comes to money issues and future money conventions.
