ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u1	The discussions take three rounds, each group ten minutes in the first round, six minutes in the second, and six minutes in the last round. The order of the classes will be this in all traffic: the organization, the Independence Party, the Left moving ◯ green supply, the forward group, the bright future, and the Pirantics. The speakers of the classes will be: For the United States of America, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, 6th. Southk., first round, second Sigríður Ingjörbjörg Ingadóttir, 3th. Smoke. So, and in the third Árni Páll the Árnason of Arnar, 4th. We're out of here. The members of the Independence Party are Bjarni Benediktsson, secretary of finance and economics, first round, Secretary of the Ólöf Nordal of the Interior, second round, and third round Haraldur son of Benediktsson, 4th. Witchest. For the left movement a quarter green supply, the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir, 3th. Smoke. n., first round, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, 5th. Smoke. So, in second, but third round Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, 9th. That's the north side. The panel officials are in the first round of Secretary of Foreign Affairs Alfreðsdóttir Alfredur's daughter, Eygló Harðardóttir, social and housing minister, second and Karl Garðarsson, 8th. Smoke. So, third round. For Birta futures, the first round of Óttarr Proppé, the 11th. Smoke. s., in Björt Ólafsdóttir, 6th. Smoke. n., but third round Páll Valur Björnsson, 9th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! Pirata's speakers are Birgitta Jónsdóttir, 12th. We're out of here. "In the first round, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, 10th. Smoke. So, in second, but third round Hrafn Gunnarsson, 10th. Smoke. n.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u2	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. With the election ahead, there will be certain sections, and with the opportunity to do so many important things, opportunity to do so many things that have waited so long and will offer us the road, opportunity to join us in the countryside with the best health care of the world, opportunity to handle corruption and special interest, opportunity to balance the game between sexes, and to give women power to men, to make dramatic decisions in society, opportunity to accept a new constitution, and opportunity to be a community in which we all want to live. It is not a law, then, that Iceland's people live under poor conditions but are recognized in the northern states. There is no reason why our people do not get the best health care available, that we cannot see to it that older citizens have the good, that children's families are on guard at a difficult house market, or that the good things go on only a few. This can be changed, for in Iceland there is plenty of money, it simply needs to be divided more accurately. In the past, there have been good - hearted ones who only reached some while others were sitting. The Company is going to make sure that right now everyone is enjoying it. Good citizens of the country. Congress is broken, and we enter the election because of the lack of trust and confidence between the nation and the government and because of the events in which corruption and the tax industry played a key role. The public received insight into how rich people do things, where they store their money under tax cover, and how some of them share their share with others in the welfare system. During the election, government decisions have largely been on the side of those who are very successful, and economic care has indeed been maintained as long as health care and education as well. People talk about good ones, but now a lot of people are sitting in their rooms and not familiar with the kind stuff. It's time to end. I find it almost fun to listen to government leaders talking about their accomplishments during this brief term. They speak as though it were beyond a human sense of the marvelous achievement. When their words are drawn down to the ground and seen in the context, the truth is revealed, they received a dowry in a dowry of state, as well as low oil prices, large numbers of tourists, and plenty of mackerel. Under such circumstances, the welfare system should at least be strengthened and transport should improve, but it is not. The rich just get richer and the rest get cut off. It was the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir that established economic stability. As a result, a right turn was made. The next government is awaiting the task of establishing social stability, with regard to the well - being of the people in the country. My fellow Americans. In the election, voters now have the opportunity to take over the values of peers who created the best communities in the world, and to represent changes that ensure all Iceland's best living conditions, regardless of where they live or how much money they have. All of this is possible because we live in a productive land rich in resources, and there is plenty of money here. Then there's even. To find in our energy resources, which have been supplied to foreign companies. A lot of energy buyers have actually created jobs here, but most of them are monotonous, and most of the money comes out of the country, as the example proves. We have used our sea resources wisely, but access to the resource has come up with few hands and most of the profits have come to a small number. Marine villages all over the country have lost their livelihood and have few options. There is no justice in it. By teleportation of markets, we receive full prices for the resource, and more becomes available for the exchange of the welfare system and for the national work structure. Travellership is the growing industry, and there are opportunities. Most would agree that visitors should pay maintenance fees and to reduce stress from law enforcement and health care while arguing on different fees, visitors are given a discount on the value of extra taxes on sleep and recreation. Until last year, we paid with the hospitality of tourists in our hotels. Less than 3 billion bucks. a total of money was paid from state funds over a six-year period. At the same time, road maintenance donations were reduced, police and health care. The contraction continues. In the summer, 13 standards were cut off at the Southland Institute of Health, in an area where most tourists pass through, and while the government is groping out of good health. We want to get the money out of the resources not only because it is righteous but because we need it in order to give more support to society as well as to help. It takes courage and ideals to stand by the fact that the common people receive a righteous share of the national treasure - profited from the resources. It also takes courage to stand firm. The Icelandic dollars is the least independent coin in the world. Sometimes it is as if an independent nation has an independent currency. Nothing is farther off. Icelandic dollars is expensive to us and actually inhibits our progress. As long as we don't have a bigger currency union, we have to hold that cost. It is my firm belief that Iceland is united with the European Union in the future. However, the people must make a mutual decision on this road for the next step. The good people of the country. With the righteous tax system and the profit of the resources, the United States intends to improve health care throughout the country and make it available in several specific steps. We are going to improve our education systems and make sure that no matter what age, estate, or financial status, all can pursue education and that there will be well - paying and good jobs. We're going to create a family society, save lives for family members, and for older citizens of the country who laid the foundation of our community. The missions are good, but we can afford all of them. We can also afford to welcome those who flee from war or famine and seek our help. Climate change does not know any borders, and the problem of war - torn parts of the world is a problem for all of us. I have honestly said little patience for politicians and political groups who prey on fear and prejudice, and I have faced the members of the Icelanders who need welfare services, and those who are looking for help here in need. I trust voters will refuse such a lawsuit in the coming election. My fellow Americans. The election that lies ahead gives us the opportunity to make good changes. The Panama documents, the collapses, and all the special care that has been common make it impossible for the nation to endure a waiting period of justice and fairness. The party is ready to fight for exactly this with the people in the country. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u3	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. We're about to enter the election, and Congress is about to end. It's only natural that we meet on a kitchen day and talk about the results of the election season, and we ponder over the main issues, the main issues, the future. During this season, much has been accomplished. We put priority on improving the debt of the households who were in pain at the last election, and we have achieved results that are far beyond the cliffs. We talked about losing taxes from our homes and jobs. It's made a difference. This policy has ensured that there is more self - resources in people's lives, and companies can easily pay their bills and responsibilities because we have dropped insurance. We wanted to clean up the money, free from this huge interest load, improve the government's rates, and all of this has been going on. We've had better and sustained stability and lower inflation. Here at the council and in the leading of these elections, you can sense that despite everything, there are a lot of harmony at the General Assembly. It's symmetrical, e.g. that we want to strengthen our health system in Iceland There is also an excellent way to agree that we want to improve the quality of social security in Iceland so that older ones can survive, keep more money between their hands, make more money to play. The same is true of disability. There is not much disagreement in the General Assembly, although one may wish to set his own priorities, e.g. It's time for transportation in the country. We want to make an effort there. I could go on like this, but we often agree on how we should create the situation so that all of this can be realized, and there the Independence Party has stressed the importance of both the home and the professional life, as I have come into this office, that there are no policies too heavy when it comes to public taxes and taxes. In 2017, next year, individuals will pay 15 billion less on income tax than if we still had the system that went into force here in 2013 when the new government began. We've lost 15 billion of our homes by changing the income tax system. The job life pays 10.5 billion less in the environment that will take over when this government leaves when compared with what would be true when a new government began. Icelanders pay 13.5 billion less on government fees, consumer taxes, such as customs and product fees. We used a whole new way of doing it. We watched these government income companies and asked: " Is it worth keeping stocks of this kind that are basically lying in the homes and consumers of this country? The answer was simple, it was time to eliminate long out - of - date export costs, and it was time to clean up the customs system. A traditional thought would have been: Let's get no tolls without having to subtract on customs from some business nation, but we thought, " It's not worth waiting for even decades to get a down payment on the customs of our business countries, and in the meantime, we'll have the customs that we're supposed to be putting on the exports of other countries. ' We had to face it. We were primarily laying the customs in Iceland and the Icelandic consumers. It's the same thing about the goods. This is even more important than that. This is important in the context that the border is all opening up, shop and service need to be able to live under competitive conditions. The Icelandic store did not when this government began. With the full deduction of public goods and tolls, and as we have reduced the value tax to the lowest it has been since the system was brought into law, we have leveled the competitive status of trade in Iceland, so it is fully competitive to the commercial and services of the North countries. Perfectly. This brings benefits to Icelandic consumers. In this context, it should be noted that at present, including For these reasons, inflation is around 1%. All Icelanders feel how important it is to live in stability. Stability is one of the main struggles into this election, has been during this term, and is at the same time one of the main interests of the households, that people can live in financial security, economic security, can make decisions in the future without worrying that there's a new business here, that interest is coming out of control, or that jobs aren't there after one or two, three, four years. In such circumstances, neither home nor secular life can make decisions about the future. We will continue to emphasize this. I believe we have a unique opportunity today because of the agreement that has been reached with the labour market to shape a new workforce. That agreement is delicate. It is based on mutual understanding. This agreement is not just between the state and the general market, it's between the state and the general market and the public market on the labour market, and it's going in all directions. No one can shrink back and say that he is going to reach his goals. One of the things that we could learn from this special period when I look back is that maybe politicians raced with union unions to see who could prove that he could turn action into law or action that would increase his financial power. It must be a balance and an agreement on how this happens. This may have been one reason why negotiations were difficult to achieve during this terms, and let us learn a lesson from this into the future. However, we have not only been applying ourselves to changes that have reduced prices and increased domestic costs, and we have also been changing large systems. In this regard it is necessary to mention a very big change in legal cases in Iceland by recording an intermediate level, an enormous step. I'm also going to mention changes in school affairs, high school has become a big change, and in the future, the Icelandic high school students will get more into college and eventually go into the labour market, which will ensure that people in longer working years, are longer involved in professional activities, will create more valuables, and the production will, therefore, grow. We will become more competitive in competition with other nations in such educational systems. To ensure that we become competitive in the future, we must continue to strengthen the college, high school, and high school levels. We have a bill that changes the student loan system in Iceland, a lot of progress. We have also been working in this ideal period to sign files, although unity of these changes has not been achieved. Thus, we have been making major changes during this most ideal period, all looking for progress and changing the environment for the better. Now, for the first time in 2016, for many years, we see that more Icelanders are moving back to Iceland than they are from the country. Industrial workers are now moving to Iceland instead of moving to Norway. This is one example of the obvious way things are going up. Why not be so optimistic about the fact that many developments could be carried out during the next season in each category after another to lead this campaign if men did not agree that much had been accomplished? But now it is important not to get ahead of yourself. People actually follow in the way of the words that are often heard from here on out that they sense the degree of stability, that humans do not get ahead of themselves in their own ambition to achieve their own goals and balance. This is everything. I hope that the weeks ahead will be used to complete these big developments, such as reorganization of the Penitentiary System, where we are making the full amount of money and equaling the pension rights in Iceland and other major matters, and thereafter can take place a legal election campaign that honors voters, and then we can work together for the advancement of our country and nation. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u4	Mr. President. My fellow Americans. Me and the Icelanders have a lot in common. We've got the Vikings, we've got flotists, we've got world credit, we've got a whole generation in the same scary childhood memory about the red hair exits in the TV house, we're notorious for watching the musical contests every spring, we can't think of letting go of the annual wedding, most of us pretend to know the lyrics when steel and knife are taken at parties, yes, we also like to listen to ABBA. We have a lot in common. And our community stands for many strong feet. We are in an envious position to have much to give. In other parts of the world, things are different, in other parts of the world, children are killed on a large scale. War has raged in Syria since 2011. Civilians have been killed for hundreds of thousands. Tens of thousands of children have been murdered. Tens of millions of children are on the run. These are the refugees we're talking about, the people who are running bombs and panics that we can't imagine, the people we're so afraid of, that they're talking about shutting down the borders of humanity and love that we think many people should be the core of our community, the core of what we are. 65 million people are on the run. Half of them are children who have nothing to do with their future. These could be our children. My fellow Americans. We can help more than we do now, and we are expected to help more than we now do. Some talk about immigrants threatening our welfare system. That opinion is directly contrary to the facts, based on no real evidence. It's not that there are so many people around here that they can't fit in. You see, there is plenty of opportunity to build up and to do better. We agree on that. The question is, Which course will we take as a community to do so? V.E.G. Government ministers have given much optimism just before elections, listed their accomplishments, and took credit for a good situation, and started to be great when this government was formed at a famous summer party in 2013. Maybe that wasn't exactly the way it was. Of course, there are a lot of great things in Iceland to make up our athletes, our artists, our pools, the northern lights, the falls and the mountains, the health professionals and teachers, the pioneers, the bus drivers, our farmers, the fish workers - in short, the people and the country are great, and there's a lot of luck with us Icelanders. Many have made the effort to make it so much better now than some years ago. Still, people are not at peace. And why is that? First, because one has not been honest, and no one is happy when he sees those in authority resort to deception and falsehood. Second, while the government has succeeded in doing much well and despite various economic conditions, people are not satisfied because the economic benefits have not been divided. Justice has not determined its path. There are still more than 6,000 children in Iceland who suffer some kind of shortage. There are still people who need medical care and medicine because they don't have it. There are still large groups of elderly and invalids who receive 180,000. in months with no means to make ends meet. Our young people, our future, see it in black that their choice in Iceland is now worse than it was for the young generation 30 years ago. People are not happy because they have not been evenly divided. The quality of the worst is not improved enough. The proposals for dressbacks for the elderly and disability were reimbursed from the previous budget. In the final decades of the remaining governments, there are some suggestions for organization for the elderly but more is not being done for the worst population. The opportunity has not been new to start a real offense. No matter how many centenarians are spoken of, health - care expenses were combined as the proportion of GDP between 2014 and 2015, according to OECD. It is the only real standard that can be taken, and it shows that the health system has not been restored at the same time that more than 86,000 Icelanders signed the challenge that this ratio should go up, not down. It is not the only collection of signatures that has not been listened. There was another against lowering hunting costs. On the other hand, they went down conscientiously, making money back - despite 35,000 signatures. The food tax went up. Growth and child support went down. It was agreed that funding per university student would reach the average OECD 2016 and the average Northlands 2020. Everyone welcomed it. Then the government approved a national financial program that announced that this goal would be met, not with more dollars, but with fewer students. The same does seem to be true in high school, where contributions were made to students but not to mention the fact that there were interest rates of 25 years of age and older in academic high school, one - sided decision was made to shorten the high school on all views of professional freedom and independence - and this came from the category that teaches itself to freedom. The lost opportunities are not just about how governments have neglected to build up our community relationships. Although Iceland has validated the Paris Treaty, which is an important step in combating climate change, there is still no plan to take hold of the goals we have committed to meet. How are we going to become a non-carbon society? Why have we not long been called upon by all of us, political groups, labor movement, employment, environmental groups, and rural groups to achieve national agreement on how we will seriously deal with climate change that will change everything about our children and grandchildren's environment? How is the will to be fulfilled in 2012, where a greater part of the country expressed the desire to build a new constitution on the laws of the administration? It is our duty to provide suggestions on how we will complete that process so that the Constitution will be reviewed. Sadly, the opportunities there have also taken place in this ideal time period. This is the government of the Lost Devices, and this is also the government intending to set world record. First, she said she put a global record in debt corrections that may have been rather county record if considering what was promised before elections. What remains is that this government has one worldwide record, perhaps a European record, which is a number of Ministers in Panama. This was justified by the fact that somewhere rich people would have to keep their money. Are these the people who are going to deal with the tax industry? My fellow Americans. If people do not agree that the foundations have been neglected, the infrastructure, everything we have together, and that we have been deceived on top of it, they have the opportunity to change the situation this fall. We can use the opportunity to choose another route. It is possible to tax, not to, people, and to ensure that the funds are used to cover the cost, to improve the quality of the consumers and the elderly, to provide relief for the health - care system, and to strengthen the management of hospitals, to manage health centers all over the country, and to improve the welfare of the public health care system. You can choose to build high school and university, thus creating opportunities for the future. Here a variety of activities are needed, based on people's own opportunities. Therefore, we are to promote innovation and research and provide additional valuables in all sectors of employment. In fact, it is sometimes claimed that commercial wealth is the basis for our ability to have a real education system, that these systems are monogamous, and that they can't come until we have guaranteed the value of it. But is that so? True, certain interests are suitable for saying that, on the other hand, they are the creations and the receivers, but they are the least simple, for this is the process of interaction. Strong employment is the foundation of a powerful education system and a welfare system, while a powerful economy builds on a strong welfare system and a powerful educational system. As always, we must ask ourselves, " What path do I have to choose? ' My fellow Americans. I don't think we want to be a community where several thousand children suffer some kind of shortage in a country that is considered the 11th richest in the world. And, yes, I think we'd like to be a community that'll welcome brothers and sisters of ours who are fleeing a tragic war. It is possible to help, to help our people without closing the door to others. It is possible to choose political powers that are ready for that assignment. We can choose the people who are confident that they can come up with real ideas about how we complete constitution change, people who are willing to lay down everything so that Iceland can face the greatest challenge of our day, climate change. One day it was said that after all, trust in the economy is the biggest welfare issue. This proved true. More than a year later, Iceland was on its head, with tragic consequences for all of our vital social infrastructure. The economic problem was that important institutions, such as Land Hospitals, were cut off, while expenses increased on many other projects without clear priorities. Justice was not guided by them. Where Are We Now? State incomes have been weakened and public funds have been deleted in a peculiar way, e.g. to reduce the debt of the largest income - highest groups of society while the poorest people are still sitting behind and the infrastructure is in the open. This is not a solid economic government, any more than then, and therefore is an opportunity ahead of an important opportunity, an opportunity to choose another kind of economic government, where a responsible state-of-the-aggression policy is compared to the goal of equality, environmental protection and democracy, an opportunity to bet on a future in which all of us put into the community in a just way, and we continue to cultivate all these valuable things together. I think that's a good future. We should not be told that this future is unrealistic. That is exactly what we can do if we do it together. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u5	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Iceland is part of the international community with its responsibilities and rights. This morning a report on the cover of the morning newspaper revealed that Russian military planes flew under an Icelandic passenger jet on their way to Stockholm last week. The planes wouldn't have called in and flown without identification, but the captain saw them out of the window. Although this was not a violation of international law, we are reminded that although we live on an island, Iceland is certainly not an island when it comes to security. Such incidents remind us of the large context of the parts, that new disposal laws on national security and policy are not just about punt, but about real matters that concern Iceland's sovereignty and the safety of the public. Just as Iceland's full weight on the Paris Treaty on Climate Issues is part of the big context, the fight for a better world. Iceland can be proud of its contribution. Last week at the UN General Assembly, Iceland was seen to be among the first nations to validate the agreement. A major step has also been taken by the United Nations Parliament on the rights of disabled people. The contract was signed in 2007, but finally adopted in this hall last week. The value does not mean that the target is reached, but it involves the route and follows the necessary changes in law and society. In the large context, the validation includes clear policy for disabled persons to enjoy full - time human rights and for our community to be better. In fact, this is the goal of most of the subjects discussed in this room to improve society. Good citizens of the country. All of us agree that increased medical resources improve our community but do not include favors to special groups, doctors, or other health care professionals. We all agree that an investment in the education system does not involve favor with teachers but is designed to improve and promote society. We all agree that financial contributions for culture and art do not involve favors with writers and actors. Rather, they add to the community and bear a good witness in the large context. Likewise, economic and food security investments are not acceptable to certain groups, farmers, or farmers. It is a policy - making decision that food should be produced in this country, just as it does in Icelandic movies or books that carry our husk around the world. The public's sponsorship in common goods is not a specialist phenomenon. Rather, it is the custom in the communities we compare with. The other certainly is political opinion on how to divide the national cake. We can work out whether it is wise or not to have earmarks 0.6% of the country's production agreements to ensure food security and to help build up the country. The media want to ensure that the land will remain inhabited. We all believe that that's what we're doing. Other categories may disagree with us, but the other must agree that increasing the national cake is the most important thing to do in order for more to be replaced. That's why economics are so important. That the country's homes are strong, that industry is more productive, and that we make more valuable things. It is stated that the status of the state's funds is solid and that clear policy and economic policy is in the direction, that we stand on our rights as a nation, whether we deal with a foreign hedge fund or a nation like Icezave national, or a food chain bearing the name of Iceland, and we would like to forbid Icelandic companies to identify themselves with the origin of their country on foreign markets. Good citizens of the country. Eight years ago, the Icelandic economy drove into a ditch where it was stuck for a few years. But we have started again with strong hands on the wheel. At first, the path was smooth and smooth, but with a sense of persistence, we are as level as clear as the path. Never, however, has it been more important to keep our eyes on the road and make sure that we do not drive too fast. Because even if the road has improved, the turns are bent, and the temporary lack of time can be costly. Hence, it is important that we drive at the wheel of a well - experienced driver who could drive under different circumstances. During the season, there has been a complete conversion of homes. With clear vision and progressive direction, we have been able to solve complex tasks and have the best interests of the future. Hence, there is now room to strengthen society's infrastructure. We want to promote health care in our country. We're supposed to improve roads and expand communication systems so that all the people of the country sit at the same table. We're here to promote innovation in commercial life, culture and education, and here at the Council, we're supposed to work together on big interests. We also need to earn trust in one another and work on policies and grammatical emphasis, not on unique persons. In this hall not only are we to talk about unique matters but we should allow ourselves to speculate, to communicate, even about ideologies, and even though we do not all know the answers. For example, how do we provide democratic conclusions in delicate matters? How do we ensure that democracy will not take offense in minorities? What do we do when democracy becomes market, when the requirement for recreation becomes stronger than interests? Or when democracies provide results from a standard of registance that is contrary to community values, e.g. about gender equality? In the realm of equality, few people of Iceland are ever again. At a meeting with United Nations Secretary - General Ban Ki-moon last week, he asked me to thank the Icelanders for setting a good example. Have them delivered. Despite good results, however, a great deal of work is being done to provide women and men with equal opportunities, to ensure a truly equal position between girls and boys, and to eliminate cultural discrimination. That's what we're supposed to be united for the good of all of us. Good citizens of the country. The journey of the past few years has been a great learning experience. I myself have been sitting in many parts of the bus, working at the Secret Bank, at the International Cash Fund, in the task force on correction, relief, and in the management system, and now as a minister in the government of Iceland. I'm happy and proud of the results. The government is bringing in a good home, and now it is a song to cover important matters and further increase the prosperity of the country's homes. The journey continues, and in the weeks following, policy and emphasis will be under way. I look forward to the discussion, and I am optimistic about the future of Iceland. Good citizens of the country. Have a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u6	A respectable president. The beloved Americans. I stood for the first time here in this sermon over three years ago, an unscrupulous senator with only optimism. Then I made it clear that the council had a chance to become the best council in history, for it would be a challenge for us to be careful and that we did not have a job plan and a willing spirit. Now we're here three and a half years later. The fact that the government decided to speed up elections suggests that I did not become my wish. It was a strange term and a strange and particularly unfortunate government that is about to give up on the swinges like that of old Grýla. In my talk about the year, I pointed out that the squirrel's smoothness was more desirable than the bear's burden. Unfortunately, a man has often felt like a porcelain dealer who sees an elephant walking through the door cheerfully. The first task of the government was to lower hunting costs and eliminate a wealth tax. There, the government gave up incomes that could have been used to build wood or to raise pay for elderly and poorer ones, or even for operating operating operating operating clinics in the Western Islands, building health - care facilities. But, no, that wasn't the decision. The reduction in customs and markets is in itself a worthwhile work, but the government did so by increasing the tax of textbooks and assessments. Is there anything that stimulates such advice as food and books? It's an amazing setting of priorities. 80 billion went to a so - called correction. Money was distributed to some who had fallen badly from the collapse but not e.g. Those in debt to student loans, not to renters, etc. The operation was best used by middle - aged capital citizens, not low income, and not by those who had lost their jobs or lost their salary. The cost alone of the operation ran on billions of dollars. There goes 80,000 million, all right? That methodology was highly opposed by a bright future. " Ten - year - old contracts were enjoyed in close collaboration with some stakeholders, but not with others. It was totally overlooked by consumer competitiveness and interests. Here is another example in which the government seems to attract special interest beyond the interests of the common people. The betrayal of promises of national law on the continuation of Member States' discussions with the European Union and the general review of the Constitution of a committee is so self-involved. The cashiers of the Panama border were the grain that filled the measuring line. As it turned out, it was the time of the time. Prime Minister, the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. The secretary of the state would have had bills in the tax industry in a crying contradiction to the common community's solidarity in order to get things back together after the crash. It's a pathetic experiment of the ex-fest. The prime minister to denial bit his head off the shame. The fact that the Icelandic community has been upside down and the political bitch has been paralyzed for months by the problems of individual ministers and the internal classes of government conflicts that are virtually out of the way. This shit is not available, as they say. Today, the election is a month, and the Council is still on its way. The government wants to push matters through the council whether they're okay or not. These include, for example, core changes in the learning loan system, which are likely to reduce bioavailability and increase the burden of payment. Another amazing point is to ban securities with loans, but only to a very narrow group of those most unlikely to need or want to take such loans. It's something like not selling tobacco to smokeless people: Good morning, maybe I'll have a little scam with you. Uruuu. Are you a smoker? No, actually, I'm done. Then I can't take care of you. The government was making bans. This is where I hit a light cable. That's inappropriate, for politics are serious, right? Sometimes you just can't do it. We have to turn away from the chaos and failures of the past few years. Backing agents and amateurs are not entitled to it. They need to be careful. This is called for more honesty in politics and more reasonableness in the community. Despite the terrible surprises in the politics, mackerel, tourists, low oil prices, etc. Helped and things look better, especially if we watch the average. I'm sorry. It just doesn't say everything. There are groups out there in this fashion. Increased costs for the welfare system, limitation of services, and churning infrastructure make the lot of these groups even worse. It is systematicly restricted access to society and must be stopped. History has proved that we are a optimistic nation and have set a good name. Let's not be the losers who don't have the courage to make sure that society is real to everyone. Let's just get our hands on this and get as many people on it. It's not a big deal, it's been done. A bright future has been watched at the General Assembly. We have kept our place in better and more honest politics. We have had the courage to look to the future, to look at the long - term reasons. We've been good and hard to resist, we've worked the same way in the countryside, got a change and a long-term thought. There is a bright future in the successful majority of the workers in Hafnarfjörður, Akpení, Kópavogur, and Reykjavík, where more than half of the population lives. There we work with all groups of members of the General Assembly, except for the Agency. It would be easy to stand here and make promises. I agree with everyone else that there is a need for health and education, for transportation stability and effort, but we also need effort to discuss why we have not been able to do this sooner. We need to find out how to get things done, not just say it a month before elections. In the end, there is credible and good will. In the bright future, we look forward to taking on responsibility. Although I said that I was looking forward to the season of my speech three years ago, I must admit that it will not be over a minute early after what has happened. Let us look ahead, we understand the willingness and disorder of the past few years, and we will not be afraid to vote, for the future is bright. - Have a good trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u7	My fellow Americans. We are living in a time of turmoil in which there is a tremendous faster transformation, a complex, frightening world scene that has become a overwhelming reality that threatens the existence of all of us. Depravity flows to the surface in a constant clime, and the harassment has become so intense that long - term thoughts and sympathys are being brought under the hit. What all are filled with zeal and anger today has turned into old wonder after a week, new corruption is revealed, and they are obsessed with all discussions without any means to address the nation's activities during the preceding week. Hence, it is so important to become aware of their methodology that different groups of people face each other in order to reach power. For example, no compromise is as pathetic and unscrupulous and against the other two vulnerable groups of society rather than recognize that there is a systematic reason why older, sick, or desperate ones need to live under difficult conditions. The distress of the people is not to teach who are seeking refuge here from war and terror. The reason rests primarily on the fact that the nation's wealth is not divided as well as the people who make the most of its resources are doing so at the expense of the old, poor, and sick. Since the birth of the Pirantics, we have gained great confidence among the people. We were, in effect, totally surprised, but the interest and trust we had to work hard to be prepared to handle more responsibility than we imagined when we formed the category a few years ago. It has called for both a comprehensive perspective on where we will go with you, the nation, into the future, and a new thought about the role of political powers in promoting the share of the community in participation, decision, and responsibility in a democratic community. It is wonderful to see that so many are willing to share in this dynamic, powerful distribution of power. The confidence we have had in surveys calls for humility and hard work to show by our efforts that our community can be transformed into a lasting deal with the nation. Realistically, it is possible to change the way out - of - date, complex, and often destructive systems are put aside by modern means of governance. If we were to form groups with us to make an agreement that prior to elections, the Constitution of those who want to work together after election would change politics for a long time and hopefully become more confident at the General Assembly. Then the media was predetermined, and the typical disappointments almost immediately after the election were prepped. Such an experiment also calls for a realistic voter. You can't change everything on a single board, but you can make new tracks so that important jobs can't be placed in the trash when new governments take over. It has, for example. too often happen in terms of global approach during the long-term course of healthcare professionals. Piras have been focused on molding new and solid foundations, where heavy emphasis is placed on the greater access of the public to decision-making, to monitor the actions of elected agents and ways to call people responsible for laws that have already been written in the new constitution, which, unfortunately, accumulate dust in the Senate. Without question, we are admonished how important and rewarding it would have been to validate this new Community Convention, and thus Piratar has decided that the Constitution of the people will be the first subject of the program will be granted. Our main objective for the next terms will be: 1st Update Iceland with the new constitution. 2. Guaranteing a fair distribution of the resources. 3. Resurrected health care supplies. 4. Let's get public access to decision-making. 5. Let us trust and try to tackle this corruption. The piranha have developed a 10-year plan reduction from over 100 policies that our grass roots have been working hard to write in the past few years and agree to our campaign system. In this work, the Piratars have identified where the urgent need for change is needed to ensure the well - being of all community groups. We are a rich nation, and how many live in poverty and uncertainty about their welfare is utterly unacceptable. We want solutions not only that are Band-Aids but that go to the root of our society to prevent the endless confusion and cycle with the rights that people should be able to walk that without constantly bumping into walls and injustice. We feel that it is necessary to wield the authority of the democracy, which is to strike the General Assembly in all its diversity. Each job can be opened and more responsible for all the groups working there. It no longer goes on to suggest that the council is so weak to the European Commission that there is no exception to any major changes involving major changes in the council long after the final deadline has expired and the situation is dragged through with no real agreement or information to those who have to submit to this law, you. How sad it is to think that being President of the Parliament of potential office is the least desirable and that a president who is supposed to have the real program authority is not authorized to enforce his own plans! This is nothing new, and it seems to be a characteristic of our administration. Pirats want the President of the Generals who dare to stand up to counsellers when they are too soon to file a case too late for the council and report it back to the Ministry. Words are excellent, especially words in lyrics. It affects real people and their rights. Therefore, we senators must never forget. Many projects await all groups who are interested in working to shape new Iceland. Old Iceland's quadruples are both pointless and dreary. If we want to stop the flow of people from the land, we have to modernize the country and give young people a feeling that it is possible to live here without being in debt. Pirats are the class that has the largest number of young people who have declared themselves ready to participate in the shape of their community. It's a great adventure to have a bit of a part in developing such political motion. It gives rise to hope and strength to see all these people work so hard to share in creating a community. But piranha are not only young people, we also have our silver gray army and experienced people who share knowledge of different kinds of community groups and interests. To be a pyramid means to have many today want a system change. It is time to try a new method of doing something about it. A lot of people are shy about Iceland being the best at something, but Iceland can be on the road to something more social than levitation and world record in private legislatures with property in tax industry. We were proud to be with new democratic nations ahead of all, and we can be proud of the new constitution and how it was won. The common people had much more access to it than has ever been done in the world. New Iceland is breaking through the cracks that came in the disaster. Let us legally establish our new covenant of community. It may have no knees, nothing is perfect, no well - being in stone; it can be fixed in time by a blunder. I am convinced that part of the process we have to go on to make the crash involves the assurance that we were able to do something potent in our difficult material and could share a vision of how we are reflected in our greatest law. This nation I see in my new constitution is a nation I like to belong to. - Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u8	My fellow Americans. The final phase has been marked by issues about health care, especially by doctors, nurses, and other special professions. Everyone is aware that the health system needs to be enhanced, and the current government has in agreement with doctors a promise of relief and correction. This promise has not proved true. Despite the signatures of 86,000 Icelanders, governments do not provide adequate health planning. This is true of everyone who knows the agreement. Icelandic doctors wanted to compete with doctors in the North countries. They got it. The United States also wants a comparable health system, as do the people in the North countries. It has not yet been given to the Icelandic public and will not be given if the present government remains dead. In Iceland, sick people will have to live under poor care, while poor people in the North countries usually do. To change this, you need ambition and boldness. We in the United States are going to build the best health system in the world and ask voters to give us the authority to do so. We are going to place much more money on the medical clinic so that it can receive everyone who teaches her harm, and we are going to give her a vital role in the development of psychological and mental health care. We are going to shorten a waiting list so that no one will have to wait more than three months after an appropriate operation or service. We would like to offer free medical care, and the first steps are to reduce the cost of those who are severely ill and long - suffering. We are also going to expand our expertise in public health services for all citizens of the country and provide health - care professionals with conditions that meet those in the North countries. That is why we plan to speed up the structure at the Ring Road to improve the safety of patients, to improve the situation of staff in a revolutionary way, and to promote the work of science. Strong government hospitals are the key to the best health - care system in the world. Thus, the union rejects further privatization of health matters. Good citizens of the country. We in the United States need your votes in the elections so we can raise the pensions of public security. We feel ashamed that those who have at least received 185,692 K. In the pocket of a month and in the new bill of the right management bill, 5 new billion will be put into the system where this group can't get anything. We're going to raise the pay of social security as soon as we pay people back to May 1st, 2016, so older citizens' income and disability are going to follow the development of a workforce. We've proposed about $300,000. for pensioners at the same time as employees, who are going to eliminate the infamous crown from the grizzly, even for the disability. These suggestions have been dropped, not just once, but three times. We in the United States are celebrating the growth of senior citizens. This means that people are healthier and enjoy life longer. However, we are concerned that young people cannot afford to have children. Therefore, my fellow Americans, we pray in the United States for your support in order to double the support of children's families by raising child reforms and improved maternity systems. The maximum pay will be 600,000 and the birthworm will extend to 12 months. In fact, at the end of the last term, we extended the birthworm, one of the first works of the right government to shorten it back to nine months. This was done about the same time that she dropped fishing charges on the fishing project. My fellow Americans. 1% of the people of this country owns 507 billion in pure property. Now, too, we know that unusual numbers of Icelanders have property on taxes that are added to those assets. These include the leadings of the forward movement and the Independence Class. We don't work for the tax people, we work for normal people. The taxpayers dropped the fishing costs, obtained a special electrical tax on the industry, reduced the value of extra tax on tourism and the rest of the money tax on the richest people. We in the United States want to use this money for all of us because we want a healthy community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u9	V.E.G. President. Good Icelanders. There's a virgin in the air. One category after another is called for financial change. In recent years, as a result of recent trials, this ideal period has turned around in the business of the state funds, and Iceland's success has exceeded its expectations, so to speak. Let's not forget that it's been a few years since Iceland was on the cliff. There is now another. There's plenty of money, you can hear it everywhere. We're on the move to do everything, that's enough. This appeal is one of the most clear examples of the success we have achieved together. However, caution is needed. Success is not achieved by itself, and the project is never finished. State funds are still in debt, and priorities are continuing to decline debt. They need to keep making the right decisions. It is a challenge for all to rule in good times. This puts the brakes on a specific level and puts more permissiveness on others. We now need to set priorities, consider necessary items, and look to the future. Never forget that we are taking up common resources. We set policies on our health care systems. We're setting course for the basic service. Our main concern is to ensure that the current economic recovery, especially those who are ill and who need support, is for all the inhabitants of the land. At the same time, we are going to be effective in these areas, as well as meeting important transport and law enforcement projects. But we also need to look into the future and ask ourselves, " What basis will the long - term growth of Icelanders be? ' You see, the time has passed when politicians or political groups decide for people what to do and how to act if they ever played their part. We must realize that we are living in a time of technology and science, where our competitiveness and success are increasingly determined by our ability to develop and create and clear new paths. It's an international development we're part of. These changes have occurred here, e.g. in the fishing industry, where intelligence and the creation of knowledge have directly promoted a valuable creation in this article. All on the basis of education, science, and evolution. The aim is to increase the support of jobs on the basis of education and, at the same time, the welfare of the country. A great opportunity lies in making the best use of the strong university and technology environment here for innovation and development. We're supposed to think of the education system as motor power, schools, research, scientific work. They need to strengthen their creativity and initiative. Only in this way do we have access to qualified staff for the future, and we only guarantee future generations enough opportunity. We need to continue thinking about the education of the infant, the Icelandic language, which is fundamentally fundamentally so that our mother tongue follows and lives in today's technological society. Now, the percentage of graduates from college technical and sciences is the lowest in Iceland in the North, and this is what we need to change. We need and should think about the government's support of students, and in this regard, the main education minister's bill for LIN is an extremely important introduction that I know students are waiting, of course, for the General Assembly to go off. The power of the government is not to choose professional activities, one rather than another. It's not supposed to be part of it. On the contrary, the State will create fertile soil for research, powerful infrastructure, and ability to make our own heads fly and an opportunity that no one today has an idea of who will be. We've already taken a step this way. A major step was taken by the scientific and technical policies and actions programme. By changing the alien law so that foreign experts are more easily drawn to the country, which is a key factor for Iceland in the coming years, with a bill on LIN, with a shortening basic study, and a white book in reading, as well as language. Now we need to continue in this regard. We need to make a big move ahead. Good citizens of the country. The election in October is about the future. They are supposed to be about our prospects for the best. This makes a difference how it is directed. On the basis of solid economic government and stability, we can prepare our country, the future generations, for the future. Lucky for the government, there is room, but we know there are many projects. But there is no doubt that in the coming years, the educational system, whether viewed as basic education, university, or a contribution to scientific and innovation, has to be viewed. There's Iceland's big chance in the future. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u10	President. Good citizens of the country. In spring, the presidents of the government class took the position of having had money in taxes. They hid their money for voters in Iceland when they needed their votes, but voters needed trust. They were among those who hid their money from the IRS system in Iceland, so the tax system did not know about their money. They hid their money from the welfare system in Iceland, even when the collapse was and the welfare system was in desperate need of every penny. They hid their money and it got away. They are predominantly critical of those who exposed them. They did not repent, they did not apologize, but they blamed those who exposed corruption. That is why the kitchen day is now in September because the nation is persecuted when corruption exceeds society. That's why it's time to vote. The left movement ◯ green supply wants society against corruption, society based on honesty and equation, a society that rejects discrimination. One of our matters in the winter is to deal with corruption, to investigate the taxes, and to find real ways to shut them down. These matters need to be addressed so that hospitals in Iceland, clinics, schools, roads, children, elderly people, and desperate people can know about the money available in taxes so that they can be taxed like all the public, so that they can be used here in Iceland because this money has become available in Iceland, in Icelandic society, through trades in Iceland, by buying and selling any goods and services. That money should be returned to society. Mr. President. In this discourse, we members of the government stand in thousands of instances to speak for good matters, to improve good language, as well as a case from the reign of government, to make things worse, and some even better, because we do not make a difference between who the carrier is and who is, rather, the input of the matter itself. We joined together, members of Congress, and government opposition, for setting up new alien laws. We completed a legal arrangement on the interstellar level and on nature protection. Thus at the General Assembly, the Council can work when the U.S. government situation is held responsible. But we have also spoken against - against bad things. We've got a firm delay and we've even stopped it. Well, that's the way the Senate works. All this election season, a group of left-green members have shared in creating the solidarity of all the political groups. This has proved to be very effective. This shows that these classes can work well together in times of great need. These groups should aim to work together at the end of elections and to achieve a solidarity over a new course and to improve practice, socialism, honesty, and balance. For such solidarity, we're going to use the left green from here to now on. Our left - green focus in the campaign is about the increase in equations and struggles for honest society. We will emphasize the increase in funds for public health care and patient expenses and the social status of health care. We view health care as human rights. We are opposed to personal gain from people's illnesses. We want to help people, but we don't want to make money out of them. We don't want a double system. We will give increased emphasis on academic matters. In school there is the future, our children, and our young people. The secondary school system has been neglected by this government, the education schools are stopping because of lack of money, and a three - year system was flushed over high school without consultation. Now the student loan system is to be changed by strengthening everyone, including the rich, by raising interest on student loans, even to those who are not rich. The whole school system deserves better government. We'd like to bring together a national conference of employment that will call for a solidarity on the seabed, agriculture, tourism, a new policy of sustainable reconciliation with nature and resources. We also stress that the money from the tourism industry, capital areas, and the roads that have become dangerous - more than ever before. We want to get money from those who have the money, the rich, and we're going to take the money from the Panama Seas, and we're going to do a lot of business against tax fraud. Government funds and rural communities lose tens of billions of dollars a year on tax fraud, money that would be able to run both the University of Iceland and the university hospital. We will use ourselves against tax frauds, against the Panamaian, but we will also oppose racial hatred, hatred of foreigners and hate speech. We would like to add the General Assembly so that the objective work of our important jobs in behalf of the public. The people can trust us in our environment. Climate is the most important environment of the day. The future political issue will focus on the consequences of global warming. We will take care of climate issues of real and natural protection in behalf of future generations and nature itself. Middleland national park will become a priority during the next term. A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. The election's about to begin. Left green offers a good list of offers. It has been found that women lead the list in three ballots of five. Right now, ten minutes ago, the list was being approved in the sixth and last districts. There will also be a lady in charge. It's not because we're better than other classes, but because we're a feministic group, stressing the subject of gender in all matters. The changes need to reach us personally. The political groups must begin in their own study, their voice should be trustworthy in equality. We're going to a campaign. The left movement ◯ green supply needs to be strongly released from the election. The people need it and must now be able to choose socialism, honesty, and balance. That is how we want to be and how we deal with it. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u11	A respectable president. The good people of the country. As we advance forward, we look back on the scheduled time period, and we can do so with pride. The success that has been achieved about many remarkable things, both when it comes to the state's financial status and as much as the position of public and professional life. We set out in 2013 with the promise to put our family and homes first, and we have. We were generally corrected for domestic debt, and they are now with the lowest known in the North countries. We set up a new housing system that in the years to come will give thousands of individuals and families a safe home. We have provided the basis for substantial raises, especially the lowest paid without losing the inflation. What does that mean? Lower debt and higher pay for the families and homes. We received hundreds of billions of demands, which have changed the debt of the state's funds and have enabled us to expand our well - being. A new social security system that will provide another tens of billions to seniors in the coming years is now approved by the General Assembly for elections. We have set priorities for the health - care system by increasing our salary and good staff and by improving our facilities. The latest giant steps are such a new payment system to ensure community support goes to the weak. What does that mean? A more powerful welfare system for the families and homes. Despite all this success or perhaps more because of him and the state's strong position, the projects are ahead of many and large ones. Well, I hope we're making a deal with the desperate to make sure they're well-finished, such as those old-age pensioners who will receive new social security laws. For both parents, we need to increase the height of birth vacations and extend it, and we need to continue with a BSRB experiment on the shortening of the workweek in support of families. With more pay, shorter hours, and longer maternity, we can help parents to spend more time with their children. And we still need to work on removing homes from banks'debts. The structure of an active tenant has begun with new housing laws. It enables rich - rich people, such as the elderly, the poor, the students, and the underpayers, to have the opportunity for loyal long - term rent and space to save money in their own house. I'm still asking, what does that mean? Real options for housing for the families and homes. The state has now returned to two of the largest of the three largest banks of the demands. Already there are ideas of personalisation or publicization as it is now. According to the resolution of the last category of candidates, the National Bank is to be a member of the nation's community, with the goal of serving the community rather than maximizing profits. With the changed government policy, the Bank of Lands could make it a real bank of society, not the bank's profits that so happens to belong to the State today. Society banks are not to bring enormous profits to their owners but are to focus on the quality of their ministry. This means better financial systems with smaller interest rates that work for the families and homes of the country instead of making all of us into debt. A respectable president. My fellow Americans. I was 12 years old when I moved with my mother, my brother, and my little sister to an apartment in a then - then social housing system in the Breiðholi farm. Then, for the first time, I felt that I had a safe roof over my head after being separated from the land's tenants for years. I know that safe housing is one of the cornerstones of a good family life and that good family life is the foundation of home life. After that, I've won. I want to live in a country where all of us have equal possibilities, whether we were raised by single mothers or by well - behaved parents. I want all of us to have opportunities no matter who we are or where we come from. That's why I'm in politics, and that's why I'm in the forward category.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u12	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. There have been many comments as to how the tribes are going to improve the interests of us Icelanders. Of course, words do not match those of others. The election forgeries has led to deserved suspicion. The promises of the political world are not ugly, but betraying them is ugly. I don't know any prophetic ball that works, but there's a way of predicting people's behavior and actions, including our politicians. Simply put, it is to look at what the person has done in the past. Today's behavior and actions have the best predictor of what we will do tomorrow. The important thing in politics is to do what you say you're going to do. That's what we do in the bright future. We've changed our methods and our tactics into politics. We've been a bridge between different viewpoints. This has often been reversed, for the politicians are accustomed to appointing people into warring parties. This is how we have worked at a council, and that's how we've worked in rural society, and it's changed a lot. A bright future is a class that stands on its feet, faithful to its meaning in matters where other classes either resort to votes or fear the loss of votes. So it was in the debt crisis that the future was opposed. To pay off some valuable loans in Iceland, she was given the tax money of the public. Not the young ones' loan but only the apartment loans of those who had already got a roof over their heads. This was also the case in the livestock contracts, where one group was opposed by a bright future. But others paid the way for expensive contracts in Old Iceland. Then, too, we have stood firm against the particular taxes that are actually open to the great business of one person. The cost is always considered to others, whether it is the public or the rest of the business. It receives a discount of taxes and fees, an inexpensive amount of electricity, and a line - layered home. In fact, like the case, sometimes it gets tunnels. Billions leave the box, but where are all the billions to be replaced? In the bright future, we do not want that course. Iceland doesn't need it. It is a financial risk, and we are destroying the tourism industry, which is the most lucrative form of currency. A bright future has been a protection in human rights, in the affairs of children, and in the affairs of young people. We have also been led into the languages of immigrants, since we want to have a variety of communities. That discussion is far from over. It needs courage and courage. Those who oppose refugees do not necessarily have the best interests of Icelanders. They feel justified in leaving drunk children in foreign lands. It's not just humane, it's time to fire a house over refugees. It is also accompanied by social and economic benefits. For Iceland it is absolutely necessary to get more people in here to work and help us run a good health system and trust in good infrastructure. A bright future has shown its direction and strength during the election season, but I am also not afraid to talk about what could have been done better. A bright future is a liberal category, but we were not united enough when the liquor bill was being discussed. At that time, we have been laid on our necks not to have separated us sufficiently from other groups. Perhaps this is because we have applied ourselves to making fine paths regardless of sort of class distinctions. This does not change our beliefs, however, but it does not try to appeal to all, for such a course leads to flatness and no change. A bright future is organized to ordinary people who feel that sharing in politics is their duty to work in public service. There are others who care for special care. The independent party is a group of outputs that want the same condition. Unlike them, we want the nation to gain a higher price for the sea resources and to go along that way of offering a dinner on market grounds. It's a stand-off for the old Icelanders and local farmers and consumers to a broken system that doesn't work well for anyone. We, unlike them, and unlike the left green, are not afraid of imported groceries and are trusting farmers in competition. We, unlike the Pirates, want artists and writers to get paid for their jobs that are distributed online. It is a twin to accept theft or a moral failure in one place and to condemn it elsewhere, as in the tax industry. A bright future was the new category at the last election. But we don't come from the inner circle of big stock who think they're loaded by the Independence Party monster squad. Buying old wine on new bottles has long been considered a bad trade. A bright future is a liberal and green category, and we have shown by clear measures that we want a system change, not a resolution. We fight for the public against the special interests of our own people, and we want to continue that fight. We have a clear view of a better community and a clear view of ways to reach it. An election is an important milestone. Your terms are authorized for four years. It's your ball time. Have a good night!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u13	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. I'd like to use these kitchen-day talks tonight to remember why we're going to the election in the fall. You see, there is a tendency to be forgotten in all the bad things going on in the shattered administration home these days. We're going to the election because people have had enough. The drop that filled the meter was one April 3, where our then prime minister made himself and Iceland a fool of himself by lying. At last, it was discovered how only a small number of Icelandic banking systems had been opened by bringing the profits of superselling companies borrowed from the Icelandic banking system in a tax bill such as Tortu. One more of the corruption issues. One more time. But it was a lot more painful. There we were made a laughingstock on a international scale. A respectable president. We enter the election now six months ahead of schedule because twenty thousand people came to the Eastfield the day after this famous Castlight show their scandal, to protest, to say that it was only enough. Twenty thousand people, for it was finally realized that there were, in effect, two nations in that land. The nation that can and the rest that can't be. The people who have and the others who have nothing. If the stone goes down often, the drop will hollow. For the past few years, many drops have fallen on the stone heart of the Icelandic politicians, and it stings. Twenty thousand people met in the Eastfield because it was enough. It was enough that politicians were made immortal and uncontaminated by clouds. A modern - day Teflon political politician is not the future. It was to be part of the lesson after a crash. Trust in the Council is in history down, and everything is going so well. That's all there is to it, and I don't know what or what. At the same time, however, every case that smells of corruption and self - interest has been observed. The Leather case, a violation of EU Member States, Energy Energy Energy, the Paying Office, and finally the Panama Industry. When the second government of the season announced its formation on a modest press conference on the steps of the General Assembly Hall, she also announced that it would be chosen in the fall. It was a promise made by the government. Not the government position. On a live well-to-do projection, with furtive words about some important matter that would have to be completed first. V.E.G. However, a government is not doing anyone a favor by trampling his affairs through the last minute in the name of an officer, who has to finish all the important issues that are entering a number of Arabic nights in the same narratives. This government has lost trust, credibility, and authority. A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Building trust is essential. We do not do so by moving ahead and refusing to listen or accept responsibility. Conspiracy of politics disappeared. This government and the one mentioned during this terms, it was their turn to start building that trust, and they failed. That's why we're going to the election in the fall. Good citizens of the country. This ideal period of lying has been a time of betrayal and betrayal of promises. We were lied about the leak business, and we were lied about the tax cover. The promises of both governmental parties on national terms were betrayed, and the government's promise to the nation of a new constitution has never been fulfilled. To help prevent this from happening again, it is necessary to attack radical system changes. We need even. to accept a new constitution that guarantees the transparency, the political responsibility of the rulers and the binding of the nation between elections. But we also need to change politics, how we speak, and how we act. The way to increase confidence between the nation and the rulers of the community is not endless talk of reforms, clouds of promises, and hopes, that is fully developed. Why should voters believe that everything will be great if you choose this one or the other? That the health system will be perfect? That the elderly and the poor get the rest? That we'll be the best in the world, and I don't know what and what when the promises have always been betrayed? System changes are simply needed if we're going to be building for the new Iceland, Iceland, which we decided to build after a crash. And we do so only if we are one nation that works together in one country that we live together as one nation where the same laws, the same taxes, and the same health systems are as good for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u14	A respectable president. During a new season, we will have a unique opportunity to establish new economic principles, where the interests of ordinary people will be put in the background. We need to seize that opportunity. The growth based on the puerries adds to the imbalance and leaves nothing behind when the vaccine is finished except to make a few rich. We need to increase production and more jobs that offer high wages, and we work longer for less pay than we earn in the northern countries, and we leave less of the farms here than we do in neighboring countries. That is not how we can go on. We need economic stability, growth reduction, a real currency and the opening of the country for competition. All over the country, the development of infrastructure, better transport, communication, and more opportunities for education are needed, which back in the production of more diverse and more valuable jobs. An important factor to ensure the competitiveness of our country and to keep our people is to invest in the foundation of public welfare services, health services, and education systems used for the general tax. It is not just wrong to close high school for people over 25 years of age, and it is not just painful to have years of waiting lists of eyestone surgery, joint replacements, or adjustment on atrial flutter, that is a direct negative reaction and that reduces the production and prosperity of people. We are lucky to live in a strong export work environment, but we need to strengthen that foundation rather than provide the public with the resources. Everyone now sees and more and more people even acknowledge our legitimate policy in the United States on the expiration route. We can also see that traveling services have exploded in recent years, but we also see that they do much more in a natural way and that tourists pay for the service that is needed to build up because of the high growth. We are not to pay for the internal infrastructure of public tax, rather than the infrastructure that other occupations call for. We need to gain money from the government, and we need to give indiscriminate instructions for competition with its sales. The pay force is to become an example, not an example. Therefore, we are not to sell the financial system as the head of the Independence Party is now doing. If this is the case, new friends will buy the banks and charge the Icelandic public and superheated businesses to earn the price - just like the last time the banks were sold. First, the banking system must be adapted to the needs of the public, for the opportunity to do so will be accomplished when the State is sold its share in the banks. We're supposed to break up the banks and reassign things. Some factors of bank drivers simply do not belong with others in a competitive environment. The basic financial system is to be separated from other businesses and all available and must be prevented from investing in ventures with people's depositors and putting an end to financial superpowers over people. A respectable president. There's an election up ahead for the Generals. I know that the appearance of politics is often negative. However, I would like to use this opportunity to defend politics in general. We must not forget that when the market failed to do so, the following was taken worldwide in 2008 and that markets always found a way to correct themselves, the nation's ultimate and economic independence was at stake, a test of politics. Despite everything, decisions made since this hall have been returned to Iceland in the highest order. The politics passed because you failed, participated in political activity, showed up at the polls, and allowed your emphasis to be reflected in the different categories and people from time to time. A huge change in human rights has been made in this room for your recent elections. You've led the way in your own hands. If we want a good community, people who want to act well, take sides, and do good things. Remember that on a vote day, and use the voting right to make a good country better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u15	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Our role in this hall is now to speak for the future, the future that we can build together. We can talk from optimism, we can talk with joy, for the opportunities our country has to offer, and how we can create a exciting future for young people here on the land for all of us and for Iceland. We do so primarily by ensuring stability here. We compare ourselves with other nations. To appreciate our competitiveness, we must compare ourselves with other nations. In recent decades, we have not been sufficiently stable. In Iceland there is a low inflation. In Iceland, there has been an increase in financial resources. In Iceland, there's hardly any unemployment. In Iceland, taxes are down. In Iceland, homes' debt has dropped. In Iceland, corporate debt has fallen. In Iceland, stability is now essential. In our last election, we discussed the problems, the need to stimulate and encourage the work, to stop the state's tilting and the world, to increase its wealth, and especially the restoration of people's optimism and zeal to create their own future. No one needs to doubt that we have succeeded, and the results speak for themselves. We certainly are on the right track. But we certainly do not claim that everything is here all right and that nothing has to be fixed. It is important to listen to and hear criticism and take it seriously, to respond, and to correct it. But we have solid foundations, and each of us is able to list many of the projects we would like to do. A respectable president. Truly, the land's buildings have different assignments and opportunities. In the foundation of the country, the landscape builds on our most basic roads, industry, fishing roads, agriculture and services, and now the use of natural resources. It gives us an opportunity, but it also gives us some special privileges. The demand for clean food is increasing, and awareness of loyalty and health is increasing. Yet, it is evident that in our community, there is a diminishing understanding of the interests of these sectors. That's a job we have to do. The lack of understanding and understanding in the discussion of the need for riches to develop so that society can be driven. Understanding how to make valuable things for it cannot be promised and destroyed. We face many opportunities to press on. Industrial advantages based on the use of green electricity now look to Iceland, hard work that is based on well - educated staff by technology, and access to electricity, which is large but not like the large ones we most know. We also build in growing numbers on tourism. Travel services are to my mind the motor forces most likely to change the rural areas. A discussion of travel services in this council hall has always been about how to tax it. It's a approach that's definitely not the one. Instead, let us look to how this powerful industry can strengthen our community and cooperate with it. A talk about travel services is especially a matter of drawing close to the property rights. We've been too shy to let that side work with us to build up places that we would like to have better. I'm not making a donation to enjoy the country and watching the country much more than an opportunity for those who want to sell basic services at the rest of the world. The same is true of tourism as it is in increasing demand for a discussion, that with the increased traffic of tourists, conflicts with existing communities and activities occur. So the most important thing is to maintain a solidarity and conversation about this important profession. However, tourism and the need for land-wide environment should be shared in the need for good communication and good communication. This year, there is a major stage in our ambitious task of decoupling the national telecommunications. Iceland's light - related project prepares for nearly all the lowlands in Iceland in the future to offer a wireless net in the best quality production and security. This means that at the end of this campaign in 2020, Iceland can boast one of the best-connected countries to the Internet for our people and their guests. This gives us a lot of opportunity to share an experience from Iceland on the air of community media. Good citizens of the country. With joy and optimism, we enter the election in the fall. In the fall election, let's vote for stability. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u16	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Now the end of this legislature and election lies ahead, where voters weigh and appreciate our work, which has been appointed by the Council for the past election. It is time for us to choose the policies we consider to be the most successful for our community until the next year, and for the politicians we feel most trusted in the power and influence of the council and the government community. The vote court, the right to participate in decision making on how society we want to have is extremely important. The general right to vote is the strongest foundation of democracy and the election to the Assembly is the channel for the people's authority to shape and control society. Each individual's choice is shaped by the attitude of the individual toward community behavior, as well as by confidence in the individuals who volunteer to enforce the political movement. It is now an unusual time, as is true of the total elections. As most people know, there is an explanation that in spring, the then prime minister became such unhealthy disregard for his office and the interests of the people who have been taught by Panama documents that the people of the United States gather tens of thousands together to protest here outside the World Assembly Hall. Faith had been broken. Trust had disappeared, and the protests testified that the voters were greatly offended and wanted to cancel the commission they had given to the general elections in 2013. Good citizens of the country. As in the past, political movements provide different policies for the elections. We in the left movement ◯ Green supply contributes to a careful, detailed policy index based on equations, equality, socialism, nature protection, and human rights. We believe that by building our national and economic systems on socialism instead of material gain, we will succeed. We do not believe in placing the simple economics ahead of everything else, and we view equality and equality as the fundamental pioneers of successful individuals and society. We feel that the welfare system is very important, and we want all the people of the country to enjoy it and those who can do their part in maintaining it. Surely, maintaining our welfare system and securing its future are a challenge. This requires both a good organization in the past and a clear view of the future, but especially a solid financing. This is where taxes are the most important, and in view of our left greens, they should not be looking for funds to pay for welfare services. We are not interested in asking sick people to pay for medical services or school expenses. But we do expect taxes from taxes. We demand that natural resources be exploited, not by a few national interests, but by all national resources. We want fair taxes on money income, and we have no tolerance for those who compromise their obligation to their community in these matters. Good citizens of the country. Sadly, many in this ideal period have been given reason to criticize government policies and actions in terms of welfare issues and community development. The health, transportation, whether the roads or the predatory domestic flights, the optics, the law, the school, and now the last changes in pensions - that is, no matter where the foot is killed, the huge, paradox development without a paradox is what the government has offered. One temperature that we left greens have repeatedly criticized is the school education minister's plans and actions, and the changes in LIN, a bill that insurmounts and ways of being free and equal to study, where the emphasis is often on the interests of a few chosen rather than on global interests. But this may not be surprising. It's the right kind of control, and in every way it's behaved as such. More material things are spared from tax returns than from spells against smaller ones. Let us not forget the worthy tax change made during the terms when we meditate on it. Neither should we forget the reduction of the fishing fees or the detriment of the wealth tax. Let us not forget the harsh resisting to raise payment for the poor and the elderly, remembering that no one will pay his bill of food with an apology on a hazy performance. The difference between right and left is always obvious, even though others may be said to do so. It is never hard to distinguish between socialism and socialism on the other hand, with specialism and capitalism. It is always obvious when the rights of the stronger and richer are greater than the rights of those who have little to take. When governments allow their wealth to dominate, social injustice will always develop. In coming elections, there is an opportunity to change direction and style. It is possible to do so much better to ensure the welfare of the people of the land, and there is a great need to increase the equation among us and contribute to the equality of human and human beings. It must be supported by the construction of infrastructures that have been decomposed. Environment and nature, the foundations of our lives and lifestyles, call for our attention and protection from the reckless pursuit of profits with short - term motives alone. There are many work to do, but there are also many opportunities to accomplish good in our wonderful country. My fellow Americans. Let's do better than we've done lately. The power to change is with us. We're gonna give you the vote. Let's use it for the sake of the entire Icelandic community. It's better when we do this together.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u17	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. The election next month is primarily a matter of well - being in the general sense of that word, and it is about our home, about how we want to live and how we want to live, what we want to live with our children, our parents, our other relatives, and our friends. It's about how we want to live in, how we share society's goods in an honest and reasonable way. During this season, the results have been very effective. We have managed to reduce the debt of the households by means of targeted measures at the same time that pay has generally increased. This has changed the situation in most homes of the country. Their situation is much better than three years ago. A greedy society must always think of those less fortunate, those less fortunate than the rest of us. We must share what we have with our subjects in an honest and reasonable way. Only in this way can we live with ourselves and our environment. Let's get one thing straight. There is nothing fair about the fact that large groups of people, elderly and desperate, have to live on less than 200 of them. K. per month. There is nothing fair about the fact that a large proportion of the amount of money delivered to them, e.g. magazines, often vital drugs. There's nothing fair about people having little food for them. Not everyone is in that situation, but there are too many of them. I've been talking for a long time that the minimum pay for the elderly and the desperate will not be under 300 of you. K. I will fight for it. Fortunately, I feel that a certain change of viewpoint is going to be with members of the council, and I have strong faith that the interests of these large groups will be improved in the near future. We're seeing immediate and positive changes in a new social security bill. There's about 5 billion more in payments for older citizens. This has been done by the forward-class government and the Independence Party. Now we need to take the step to the full. Older citizens certainly deserve that. When it's time for microchip, I want to say it. It does not choose to be an invalid. Let us stop speaking them down, treating them with respect, offering them a decent life. The election is a health - care system for everyone, not a health system that is constantly moving toward personal development, but a system that allows all its subjects to enjoy good health care, not that the services are limited to what each individual can pay for. We also have to take the payment system more closely. Steps have been taken, but go further. According to this, I would like to point out that the current government has raised the health - care system by tens of billions of dollars. ... inthisest term. The forwarding party government and the Independence Party destroyed the health system. It was being chewed into a bone in the reign of the government of the United States and the left greener. Of course, these groups were a measure of pity. Yes, there was a collapse, and a great cut was necessary. But let's be clear about one thing. At operating time, priorities must be set. It's never more important than at such times. During the last term, medical surgery had gone too far. My fellow Americans. Let's never forget, too, that one of the first works of the United States government and the left greener was to cut off the interest of older citizens. This was done in July 2009, almost as soon as the government began. It may have been necessary, but it doesn't take anyone to tell me that it was necessary to start with those who failed in society. It was not beautiful, and it was not fair. There's something else we need to consider. The elections are also about a good education for our children, an education that we can be proud of. A nation without education is a nation without the future. We've got to make a lot of money on education and research. We will not be competitive if we do not handle that matter better than we do. The votes are about other things, too. The media wants to change the financial system. We want a system that serves the common people but that has more than the purpose of maintaining itself. The media has spoken to a community bank that works for the people and has the purpose of building up and supporting their environment. We've been talking about being careful about selling banks. These tracks do not look so good. The applicant party wants to handle financial fees. These payments can never be justified. The Special Assembly of the Agency has agreed to my decision on the prohibition against proposals. Sadly, this has not occurred in the administrative work we have been in. I've also submitted a bill for a social security event. Anyone watching what that case was given at the council is aware of it. That would mean little for those who stood up to these matters and spoke fiercely against them to pay and reform 15 minutes before elections. Us senators don't sit at a council for ourselves. We represent the people outside, and we have to listen to them. The formation of the financial system is essential and is required of the people. We have already been dealing with the causes and consequences of a financial breakdown. We have members at Congress who want almost complete freedom, both in the banking system and elsewhere. This will inevitably lead to another collapse. That's what the story tells us. Let's stay on top of the right and to the left of these materials. The voters have a choice in October. They can choose for continued economic growth, continuing building, low unemployment, and responsible financial regimes established by the forwarding government and the Independence Party. This government hasn't finished all its affairs. Far from it, as I have already discussed. However, the governments of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson and later the Sigmunds Sigurður Ingi, son of Jóhannsson, have achieved remarkable success in three years. Close many giant projects, the largest one that this nation has ever faced, and they have changed the status of its citizens. The second option that voters have is a travel of uncertainty across the left categories and the Pirata. Uncertain travel can certainly be fun. They usually start very well, but sometimes the next day the headache can be severe. We've had many adventures on the left groups. They've all ended badly. We can't afford that in 2016. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u18	Mr President and good citizens. ▪ Tell me how a community dwells in children and young people, and especially in those with social status, poverty, disability, or impairment, and I'll tell you whether it's good or bad society. Frankly, I don't remember where I first heard those words, but they caught me right away. I never forget them, and I don't want to forget them at all, for I become increasingly convinced that it's this way, and it's nothing different. This is the standard that I am fully convinced that the community, politics, and the administration are to be put in place. This is the guide and main objective we have at the Council and have been entrusted with authority on behalf of the public, should have every day in all our discussions and actions. That's what I've done, and that's what I'm going to do, wherever I'm going to be, whether I'm staying in this room or anywhere else. But good Americans. When this standard is laid, how does our community come out? And how do we stand as we sit here when our actions are judged by those standards? And what is the status of the present government measured by this scale? Has she worked and set priorities for young people and especially for those who are struggling? I don't think our community is doing well enough. I feel that the rest of us sitting here at the Council can do much better. And I think the government has totally broken down on this test. Why would I say that, good Americans? Because the facts are these: the 20th of January. The United Nations Children's Fund, U.S.A., introduced their report on the status of children here on earth. Its findings show that more than six thousand children suffer material shortages in this country. Is it acceptable that in our prosperous society, more than six thousand children live with a lack of material advantages and serious discrimination and miss out on many opportunities offered and felt self - determination by other children? Last year, more than 800 children waited for the diagnosis and measures of ADHD and other disturbances and at the same time were included in the Little Test between 60 and 70% prisoners, the most young men, with such disorders, men who might now be active members of the community, would have received adequate childhood assistance. For children and young people, leisure services for disabled children and young people have come to the limit due to lack of money and a person's concern for the children and their parents. We don't have the funds to run high school and elementary school short. How, in effect, is our education and the future of our children given in order to divide Kingdom interests? This is not a free school, which means the obvious risk of child discrimination for education on the basis of the economy. Do we want to violate the human rights of the poor and, at the same time, impair their future opportunities by education and the better prospects for employment? Is it not obvious that we should be our primary objective and guide every day to arrange our activities so that these young ones will have every opportunity to enjoy themselves as their interests and abilities as individuals do? Refugees with children are repeatedly dismissed to complete, complete uncertainty, even though children have diseases requiring special medical care that cannot be provided in poor countries. Finally, after nearly ten years, we were able to validate the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people. But it turns out that the government system has neglected to prepare the validation of an important appendix to him. What does that say about priorities? Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. Human rights are about equal to people's opportunities. Whether large or low economic equations are desirable in communities is all opinions. It's politics. And while I am personally convinced that much inequities are immoral and very harmful to communities and individuals, I do not intend to say that others are not permitted to see it that way. But people's equal opportunities are human rights that we have as a nation and as a nation committed to ensuring people and nature according to exactly groups that have long been the victim of great injustices and discrimination. Hence, we commit ourselves to respect and enforce the United Nations Children's Covenant, so we have now committed ourselves to respect and enforce the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. It's not a question of opinion, Mr. President. This is a direct responsibility that the government should take seriously. But do they? This government has very little interest in equations, and this is likely to be the opinion of the Ministers in it and of the political parties that it is not desirable. I don't agree with that. But there is much worse and tremendous concern for the people in this country, and especially for children and young people who are to inherit the land, that this government also has very little interest in people's equal opportunities. Her actions show this and clearly prove it. This government has set priorities for all other groups and interests than young and young people. This government has set priorities for short-term objectives and for special interests on common resources to land and sea. V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. We need a new government in this country that takes human rights and their responsibilities to ensure that people are equally serious and that all the citizens of the nation are benefiting from their resources, not just a few chosen ones. Thus, only in this way can we create a good and just society, a society that cultivates honesty, love, and responsibility along with moderation and humility, a society that sets up the interests of its children, and those who put their feet first in the community, a society that welcomes new citizens who want to live here, and most notably guarantees their older citizens a walk into the sunset of their lives. Good citizens of the country. Such a society does not fall into ruin, so society places bonds on greed, rejects pride, and values honesty and responsibility much more than luxury and wealth. That's the kind of community we want in a short future for Iceland's citizens. Good citizens of the country. V.E.G. President. But finally, I want to take this opportunity to thank the others. 62 members of Parliament for their escort. three and a half years. This has been a joy, but often it has been a difficult journey, and often it has been very difficult. But we have also shown that we can cooperate if we want to. I hope that all those who will serve here at the council after the next election will be guided by working together for the good and happiness of this nation, for, in the end, our profession is: a successful nation. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-26-157.u19	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. My dear citizen. It's popular to get into politics and politicians, call them all evil names, impossible and worthless, etc. When I run into this debate, which, of course, happens primarily on the Internet, I normally try to figure out what it is that people are trying to say because sometimes they can be taken to heart. Sometimes it can be used in some way to find out at least what the person is trying to say. Sometimes it's just pessimism and boring and negative speech. Then I will say from time to time, "Present yourself." And the answer I get varies, but it can usually be summed up in four words: I can't. I'm just an ordinary hired man, and I have to make ends meet at the end of the month. I'm in a social situation that I can't escape. I have family and friends to take care of. I was in a joint with an Jóna on the Eastfield and I've had a criminal record. A respectable president. Hv. Senator. I can't. I'd like to ask you, dear citizen: If you thought in 2012 that the most important political projects were to promote democracy, defend civil rights and democracy, stand in the way of the will of various labors to take on these civil democratic rights, if you thought that addiction would be a health problem rather than a crime, if you thought that the government and privacy of the individual, for the citizen, would be one of the most important matters ahead of you, you might have chosen Marty. It may not, and there may be sufficient reasons for doing so. Maybe you didn't believe we could do anything about it. Perhaps you saw a small group with a pirate flag in the Logo on a black background with a strange name and funny people, thinking, "It's never gonna work. ' It's not possible. It's pointless. It doesn't matter if I choose this class or anyone else. But would you have believed that after two years, after we had gotten in with a 5% person, very little, this weird little party would suddenly climb up in polls and eventually end up with over a third of a series and stay there for a year? Would you have believed that in 2012? I would not have believed it in 2012. Would you have believed that after all the dramas and growths that have certainly been great and difficult to deal with, this class would fall into a quarter line? And fight the Independence Party for the rest of the season on the title of the largest category in Iceland, according to polls? I wouldn't have believed it. Would you have believed in the year 2012 that for a year and a half of the election period, people would not talk about government formation without any involvement with Pirata? The piranha party with the pirate flag on the floor with a black background and the name and the weirdest people? I wouldn't have believed it then. In fact, I could hardly believe that at the time we would reach the inside. Well, I can say now, I didn't believe it. I'm not saying this, don't mention this, to brag. I'm pointing out that this happened. Even if you're supportive of someone else and feel no strength, remember, this happened. It happened. The funny little band with the strange name and pirate flag in the Logos with a black background. We had no idea that this would happen in 2012. We saw the impossible, but we tried anyway. And it's important to try anyway. Of course, during the election season, we have been only about 5% members of the council, but we have tried our duties as best we can. I personally believe we have survived this 5%. But it is something else who appreciates it, the citizen's appreciation for it, and the voter's appreciation for it. But it remains that what seems impossible happens. I don't know how you, dear citizen, can change the world, but I say it with the conviction that a human soul is capable of you being able to do it.
