ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u1	At a meeting in Iceland at the Western Council yesterday, January 26, Jóhann Pálsson was elected vice president of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u2	Mr. President. A precipitating campaign instigating the health Kári, Stefánsson, has been given much discussion in the community. From what I understand, more than 50,000 people have signed a requirement to restore the health system. The requirement says that good health systems reflect independence, while poor health systems unacceptable coldness to those in need. It is the assessment by those who sign that in the last quarter of the world's governments have undernourished an Icelandic health system. So you can ask yourself, and many have done so, whether 11% of this declaration is the right percentage, but I think that's what it is. Congressmen must listen to this requirement for people of the country, more than 50,000 of the country, to set priorities for health care. Then it raises questions when we hear a reason. The members of the board of directors appear here and say: "Where shall we take the money from? Here we come to a basic question in Icelandic politics that focuses on the scope of the combination. How are we going to finance it? There is no need to be surprised who has followed the administrations of the government, since it began, that in terms of government revenues, in terms of resource costs or fishing costs, energy taxes or fiscal taxes, to change the income tax system, the targeted efforts have been made to weaken the income sectors. Prior to the election in 2013, we gave left greens to a financial programme aimed at maintaining income stocks, to ensure that the resources needed to build through society's infrastructure. I think this collection of signatures - which is primarily about this, about the scope of the combination, and that politicians need to answer how to finance it - shows that the public wants to put these issues on the program. I think that's what we're talking about. Congress officials must not listen to it. Rather, they must take seriously the rich will that is expressed there to promote the interior parts of our community. [[The president calls.]] Of course, Mr. President, they have to look to the income, and they need a new thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u3	A respectable president. I visited a very interesting talk at the University of Reykjavík this week, where Professor David M. Clark of the University of Oxford spoke about the mental - health policies of the local government. It was a time lecture that kept one's attention busy all the time, and the hall was packed. I really hope that what was presented there will come back into the Icelandic medical system. Actually, it's got the highest. A health minister speaks in the spirit that he realizes that psychological treatments, treatments for depression, anxiety, and so forth, can help much and even more. David M. Clark told of assignments carried out by the British government. They offered therapy for depression and anxiety, patients without cost, and took it very seriously. It is a follow-up, a success evaluation, and a lot of emphasis on assessing the results after treatment, that people not just go back to society after three hours, and no one really knows what to do. He also showed the cost of society's problems when more and more people are dealing with mental disorders, and we do not tackle them like other problems. If you go up to the crash with your broken arm, you quickly get some relief, but when it comes to mental problems, you can get caught up in the system, and if you have to consult a psychologist, it's more often than just at the patient's expense. I feel like we're really behind. [[The president calls.]] I know that a mental - health policy was adopted here, and I have high hopes for it, but I think we should discuss these matters rather at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u4	V.E.G. President. During these days, we hear reports of a poor financial situation at the elementary school in Reykjavík. The school directors have stepped forward to discuss their concern over the situation that exists, as well as that of parents from elementary school in Reykjavík, NYFOK, who are deeply concerned about the foretold cuts in school and vacation schedule this year. This year's economic crisis is over 670 million. According to the news, school directors say that the cut down so that students become larger and individually my services. In addition, the cut-off is directed directly to special instruction, and a special assembly in Reykjavík last year has been cut down by about 20%. It is a very serious matter when students fail to receive the services they need, that the elementary school cannot meet the various needs and abilities of students because of cuts. This will no doubt affect the well - being and learning capacity of the students who are affected. If this condition persists for a longer time, it may also affect the person's well - being and the duration of your performance. Research has shown that by using specialized approach to children's study years instead of general advancements that are acceptable to all, children's development and careers can be influenced to the future so that they can be more effective in all the activities of the day - to - day living. It is necessary to ensure enough funding for the basic schools so that these good people, teachers, expert teachers, coaches, supportive agents, and all those who work with our children each day will have the facilities and equipment needed to build up and strengthen our children to the future. Priorities are necessary for these individuals and for other costly tasks that do not require legal services to be held out while these items are removed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u5	V.E.G. President. In 2009, the report Economic Growth Study has the first sentences, with the permission of a president: ▪ For the first time, from the time the country's economic interest figures were combined less than a decade ago, the share of the capital area in land production is more than 70%. Production grew more in the capital area than from 2009 to 2013. On the same page, they say: The production of most was reduced by Southnes and by the West Fjords of 2009-2/2013, by an average of 11◯12%. In particular, there seems to be reason to be concerned about the development of events on the West. A total of 10% higher pay pay in that country than money in the whole country. At the same time, the number of Vestjörðurs decreased by 5%,◯ Seafood is still the largest industry in the West, but the reduction in the production of Western Europe appears to be an explanation for the fall in recent years. Buildings, financial services, and related articles have also been drawn together. The main work is contracting. The result? Buildings are dropping, people are moving away, and economic growth is going down. At the same time, small rural communities, such as the Slysavígs, are struggling with all efforts to present themselves in a job and structure in the crisis, struggle to get us to sit here to help, establish safe electricity, good transport, and draw stronger support from the community that calls for assistance, no longer need to look for solutions. They have the solution, but they lack our weight on the scales to make it work. In the West, there are many people, and people want answers. Will we take the steps needed to achieve safe electricity so that they can be built up? Are we going to make it to the Vestísfjords 60 through Chef Forest, Animal Funerals and Aluminium Lands? If we were as willing to establish a strong telecommunication across the country as we were prepared to send down for the late NMT-siers--where are we going to join the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u6	Mr. President. I would like to quote a report recently issued by the local community. It involves food prices and supports the results of the report sent by the Contestant in March of last year by the day market. There is evidence to suggest that the application of domestic supply and the daily stores of imported goods has increased. This study reveals that the changes the government has made do not make to consumers. This is one of the things we left-greens talked a lot about when the merit tax was raised, including for food, to which the parishes were bought. The sugar tax was dropped and the food tax went up. There should be counter measures. How do they appear? How do they appear? How do they appear? Councilmen of the forward party? What do you think of this conclusion? The challenge measures were more and less reversible when child damages and criteria were reduced, and one was reduced. I'm asking, "Where is the world's highest estimate?" When it comes to consumers of this country, did the prime minister argue? It is not natural that when we are multiplying the import of such things as beef, acidifying as well as global markets, we still raise beef pickers by 15%. Of course, this is not normal, and this need to be considered. As we know, there is also a clear sign of a few competitions at the commercial market in Iceland where the profits of the largest companies are 3,35,40% compared to 1,9613% in the United States and Europe. Iceland is part of Norway when, for example, the use of antimicrobial antibiotics in agriculture is reduced and we are supposed to strengthen, I think, and to be more supportive of domestic production rather than speaking it down, as is hoped to be in the discussion. [[The president calls.]] That's one of the things that can affect the price of food in Iceland, and that's what we need to strengthen, but I'm asking, okay? The senators of the forward party: Are you okay? Do you think the counter measures have paid off?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u7	Mr. President. This government's priorities are often very strange, as you can see from the fact that last night, 1st was completed. the local concentration camp burning that has come to be mentioned today. The matter was discussed for 20 hours or then end up a transnational dispute on this matter except in a council of greens, where all of us have a heart against drinking in general grocery stores. In this context, I would like to say that there is a collection of signatures to support the health system and over 50 of you. Someone has signed it. In the meantime, people continue to bathe in their princely affairs, alcohol at the grocery store, all for their freedom, that they can buy their booze in all hours of the day, and turn their jaws off, we ignore warnings from the health professions and underprivileged communities that this will increase their consumption. One person pretends that he does not see all the consequences of increased consumption, family problems, and the higher health costs thereafter. Opinions have shown that it is counter to the fact that booze is going to camp. However, keep knocking on this matter. Governments do not make the task of managing their health. There is a long waiting list and a great need for more funding in the renewal of the land hospital, to buy equipment, and to make money. Will there really be an even greater rate of health care costs by increasing access to shopping and alcohol? I can't tell how people can behave in these matters. [[The president calls.]] The people do not call for this, they call for a righteous society, and in this society they cut short - but not concentration camps.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u8	V.E.G. President. Iceland's foreign trade is under general discussion as a result of the Russian forced action against the Icelanders. There are new markets in this context and our possibilities, but there are many opportunities in our free trade agreements. In 2013, Iceland's Free Trade Convention of China went into effect, but China is a huge market, and there are many opportunities for an Icelandic company. There was a slight decrease between 2013 and 2014 as a result of hairy failure, but since then there has been an increase of 9 billion in 2015, with the exception of December 2015. It hasn't been more since 2008, but it was exported to China at 10 billion dollars. In a Chinese market, there is now an recognition for Icelandic lamb. The Chinese have found answers to their questions as far as this is concerned, and now they are planning a trip to the country to make an assessment of the situation before deciding whether they should be authorized to import Icelandic lamb to China. In terms of the state of the new free trade agreements, the Government Constitution is proposed to approve of validation of accounting in the Czech Republic of Guatemala at the EFTA-Service Convention and the Central American States. There is also increasing opportunity for exports to Icelandic companies, such as seafood and meat. EFTA and Vietnam have had a successful negotiation, and they hope that this year will be their year's end, with little to go on. Icelandic companies are now able to access a large network of vacation contracts, which include a total of 69 countries through the EFTA Convention, the EEA Convention, the 25 free shop contracts that the EFTA countries have made and the two-sided holiday contracts of Iceland on the Faeroe Islands, Greenland and China, as stated earlier. A free trade is a global beach, and Iceland has put its weight on the scales of trusting business ties between people and nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u9	Mr. President. As we know, the welfare committee is being discussed on a budget for a long period of housing. Now the reviews have been received, and as they indicate, there are a number of big opinions and questions related to the issues and those that are well - meaning and support the main objective of the bill, but the question is whether or not they'll be able to get along with the instruments they're doing. A discussion of the matter, of course, needs to be thorough, has also shown that even if the Allied Council succeeds in implementing it in the coming weeks or months, a significant amount of time will be needed to implement it in the form of making extensive regulations and to implement it to a large extent in the regulations in which the prime issues are generally very general. But more importantly, this draws up the situation that because of this year's budget, there is no authority to contribute money to paying back interest costs on loans that have been on the people of the past few years, i.e. that social rented with government support in the form of wax payment could lead to the results, and since there are obviously some years before the first apartments would become useful in the new general space system could become a total resistance to the purpose and goals of the primary projections, i.e. that there'll be a hole, there'll be stopped in the building of new social sprays for one year, one and a half years, two years, unless this situation is resolved. I can only see how you can do so if you want to continue building houses in the form of the wax pay system until the other system gets started. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u10	V.E.G. President. I'm going to take up a discussion that is not often discussed at the General Assembly, i.e. tests and measurements of the size of the hairy strain. As noted, the Merit Research Institute has been searching and measuring from years to years, reaching the conclusion that after a great search by several fishing ships, it was 675 Thoust. a ton. Now, however, the government has decided in a new haphazard policy, and what can be done to make this stock much less desirable? For my part, I found it very critical of how the matter was being handled. For example, we do not know exactly what was being done there, nor do we have any models installed. This now makes it possible that, along with what Norwegians can catch, the Movens, the European Union, which the Norwegians have reached, the catch, will come only 100 thoust. a ton of us Icelanders in this season. This is very serious news. I want to say right away that we want the stock to be self-sustained, we're not going to walk on the head chair. It's not. But I think very much about this new algorithm, how it's presented, as I said before, and that we should have prepared it better and done better through it. This has a tremendous impact for the population because of the 100 of you. The sum of tons of income is about 10.6 billion, of which a government fund in the form of taxes is less than 3 billion, wages are around a billion, and this can be counted for a long time. Because of this, which I have made up of a short period of time, I have requested that this case be discussed on the job committee and as far as I know, the head of the Committee has put it on schedule tomorrow. [[The president calls.]] I'm happy to be here at last, when representatives from the Ministry and Oceanographic Institute will finally come to explain the new fishing order and the current developments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u11	V.E.G. President. I was going to discuss the discussion and the atmosphere in society and in the context of presenting the great challenges we really face. We are in a way to die as a society to improve the status of our nation as we are reminded that the underlying resentment and anger exist in society. In view of the last information in the matter of paying, let us say, a righteous anger comes, with the nation's patience. We are already making stability progress in streaming into the Secret Bank, and it is very important that we achieve harmony and harmony with the way we handle these assets, how we handle them, how we accept the management, process, responsibility, and responsibilities that are needed and how we treat them thereafter. When we relate it to information about corruption, the nation's attitude and feelings are that we enjoy more corruption in Iceland than the rest of the North countries. That's serious. It is a matter of confidence and respect by the Generals how we react, how we deal with these issues, and how we live up to the picture. It will only be if we try to make peace here in these decisive matters, not only between us but also with the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u12	A respectable president. The moral failures of Icelandic society are increasingly pronounced and almost tangible in our daily lives. As measured, the moral standards of the government are deteriorating, and they are the principal members of the financial institutions. Sala Arion's bank and stocks in Shimanium are an ugly example of what their executives got away with. For weeks and months, the National Bank is in its discussion about a business he acts behind a closed door, and it is careful not to get the best possible price for the bank's property, our country's property, as the example of Borg being true. The National Bank officials have not accepted responsibility for unprofessional practices that damaged the bank, which has come to a trash pack in the eyes of the people of the country. But the bank needs to answer to make up for the axes that have been done in the bank's administration. Where do the bankers look then? Yes, they attack the park where it's lowest. At the branch office of the Lands Bank in the city of Rhivines, formerly known as Keflavík Safé, a man worked hard for 30 years. He is a spastic, valued 75% microchip. He's married and he has two children to care for. He is each one of us lovers of our clients, who felt that he was approachable and servicehearted every time we came to the service table and we looked at him. But he was in a car accident last year when he was hit. He had recently returned to work when the bank's superiors announced that either he would sign a retirement contract or that he would otherwise be laid off. Two evil assets, the cruelty complete, and the social responsibilities of the company are none. It's the way the Continental Chiefs do, to cut off from our weakest brother, who is persecuting people. The lack of mercy is complete. I sent the question to the governor of the Lands Bank if the bank's top law does not have any structure changes. There the directors are the trust of the public, and much of the workers experience feelings of distress during their work every day. A respectable president. I thought fear was over.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u13	A respectable president. It is a joy to know that a collective agreement has been made between the labour market partners but is sad that once again the elderly and desperate are not to be shared in human reforms in the same way as in the same time as others, and that the prime minister should have rejected it here in question period at which point. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller took it up to him at the beginning of the week. To be honest, I thought it was enough how these groups were treated last year, even though they should not have repeated the game. I challenge it. Allied officials are putting up with the fact that this will not be done in this way. It is our duty to determine the lowest paid groups in the country, the pensioners in the social security system, to ensure that they have the same increases as others. If we are not able to do that at the Council, we should give that assignment to someone else. Surely we need to consider whether we should get advice or another person to care for the assignment that we ourselves are not able to do. It is now a process of reviewing the overall social security, and it is unfortunate that it does not look like an agreement with that committee rather than with so many others. I believe, however, that there is a fine opportunity to achieve a solidarisation of changes in pensions that could lead to some improvement, especially for those who have any rights from a pension fund but not much. I encourage the members of all classes to contribute to such changes but also to try to ensure that there are also comparable compensations for the land's disability as well as agreements with Iceland's Scaring Community for such measures. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u14	A respectable president. Last night, we talked very interesting and we need a case from what. 6th. Reykjavík Precinct North, Björt of Ólafsdóttir, why. paritaprevir It's a bright future, with regard to vendettas or sleazy porn. It's a very important matter, as far as I'm concerned. We agreed that we were hoping that the matter would be through the council without becoming part of some Švíli and the dills and the contracts and the similarities that the members of the Parliament probably find difficult to talk about or at least uncomfortable. For that reason, I began to think again and again about how the Council works and how the priorities are in terms of Congress and other matters. There are some statistics that can be summed up that at the General Assembly are as well as for so many members of Congress or so many members of Congress that are being discussed. On the other hand, the tone of voice is always in the background, that the Council is actually a financial agency for the government, which I consider to be very disloyal and not in accordance with the needs of the work that the World Council has to do in the 21st century when there are challenges such as stumbling porn and comparable threats. Therefore, I feel that it is important that we keep this in mind and not lose the threads in our discussion how we improve the work of the council and, in particular, how we bring more members of the council into consideration, since there are plenty of fine members of Congress who deserve to be discussed. The common people often say that because they do not want to do it, they fall asleep in a committee. No, things fall asleep on a committee because it is not the time for them to be delivered. Because of the ratios of power and the way the Council experiences its role, time goes into a rift and all kinds of noises here at the council Hall. I suggest we keep that in mind for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u15	A respectable president. It caught my attention in discussions about the council's activities that the leading members of the last government spoke of the importance of setting priorities for health care. I'm glad you're here. I've been fighting for it ever since I got into politics, and it's such a pleasure to be in a part of government, which has not only spoken about it but also done so. I'm happy if the left groups have arrived at that site, because during the last term, there was a lot more saved in health, as if anyone who wants to look into it, and so was the number of employees. This is clearly indicated in the answer to a question I posed to the local officer at the highest level. There's a secretary of the budget, and there's some papers in the Senate. Invested investments were also greatly reduced. However, environmental improvements were made, and foreign affairs and monitoring agencies were totally part of them. If that is how it is, there is a real will to set priorities for this class, then things have really changed here. The General, and I'm glad to hear it. On the other hand, I would like to point out that this class, like everyone else, is important if people speak out of fact and not from any other source, that money is not the same as success. We should make it our goal to remain in the highest order. And since there are certainly problems and projects in this area, we should set goals for success; short list of waiting, increased service, and so forth. If it is, there is a political agreement on the matter. The General Assembly is the turning point for which I rejoice. I look forward to working hard. Parliaments from all categories will be successful in the immediate future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u16	V.E.G. President. I just want to take advantage of this opportunity, and I'm especially glad that this amazing and good thing has come to a vote. I'm all for it. It's been a long time in the council, and it's always worth taking care of all things, things like others. I think it's a big advance for Icelandic production. Very many have waited a long time for this adjustment. It's a good day.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u17	A respectable president. I will attend a vote on this article, as well as other articles on this bill because I believe it should simply be free to use the flag, which should be followed so that this will not go far enough in a penalties according to my opinion. So I'm sitting by.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u18	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct any change in local social services laws by further adjustments. The bill's moved back. This was presented to the 144th legislature, but it did not end. It is now submitted with a number of modifications of 2.g. in accordance with the opinion of the majority of the welfare committee after a detailed review procedure during the last council. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] However, the goal of the bill remains the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u19	The President's asking for a sound in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u20	There's a more detailed explanation of the law on the financial support of a community. For example, the bill suggests that a minister will provide guidance on financial support, which may include: value for financial support should be stipulated. Such rules should be agreed with the European Union. The purpose of this procedure is to ensure a better agreement between local regulations. It is suggested that a minister be assigned to set up rules for local administration when setting rules for financial support. In particular, it is stated that such guidelines should provide financial guidelines for rural areas on basic financial resources. Until 2011, the Ministry published guidelines for financial support annually based on an agreement with the European Union. Since then there has been a risk that the difference between rural partners is increasing in this respect. Despite their decision to provide financial support for the final amount, the rural community must still meet its goal in ensuring the social and financial security of the local community, as agreed by Article 1. The law. Therefore, I believe it is important that a minister be assigned to publish annual reference levels that are considered by rural society in its rules. However, rural communities are advised to be authorized to set rules for the effectiveness of those who are employed but who receive financial support because they have not yet received jobs and are not entitled to unemployment or have their full - time rights. The main objective of this publication is to enable jobseekers who have completed their improved rights to reassemble into a labour market and to prevent chronic unemployment from leading to incorruption. The bill is also designed to take a stand for the source of financial support, but there has been some uncertainty about that subject, especially where current legal requirements have come to the fore. Then the bill creates a legal basis for cooperation between the labour agency and the local community's social services for the assessment of labour and services with jobseekers who have financial support in rural areas. It is my hope that the bill will lead to improving the services and support of the jobseekers who have fully used their rights within the unemployment relief system, and this will lead to the return of more of them to the workforce and reduce the level of unwork because of long-term lack of work. The bill suggests that the candidate's skill should be evaluated before deciding whether to bind financial support criteria for efficacy. You will find out what can be considered as an active job search, which provides the same criteria as those used for jobseekers within the unemployment insurance system so that they are considered to be in an active job search. The bill assumes that only a reduction in monthly financial support will be permitted for two months. However, there is no limit to the number of times a person can suffer from impairment, but it is assumed that a partner will reevaluate work skills if this is done more than twice. It is then suggested that monthly basic financial support not be allowed to be cut down on the rights of the community by more than half. However, if married or married couples share in financial support, it should be taken care that only financial support is given to a marriage mate who no longer meets the requirements of this arrangement. In the case of so-called sources, it is assumed that such payments are allowed to be canceled for up to six months at a time. However, it is suggested, which I believe is very important, that the conditions of children, such as spending time or school meals, and where local rules of making a child's living are not allowed to be allowed to enter into the calculation of basic financial height. The bill is employed in cooperation with the European Union. There was also much work to be done on the Senate welfare committee when the bill was submitted last and received reviews from a number of sources. They were guided before the bill was submitted this time. A respectable president. I have now explained the basics of this bill. It is my hope that with these changes we can achieve a better match in the implementation of financial support between rural society and that the rural society has a clear record of its authority on the activation of a group of jobseekers who are at the highest risk of falling permanently out of a labour market because of long-term lack of employment. So I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to what. The welfare committee and to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u21	V.E.G. President. Let me start by saying that I'm sorry that we have to take this case back to our discussion here at the council, but I have a few questions to the highest level. Minister. I'd like to ask why they don't want to extend the unemployment period, since there's a warrant for effective job search. The government, despite the decline in unemployment, decided to go down to two and a half years, which the law ordered before a crash, before it was raised for four years and then dropped again for three years. I'd like to ask why it hasn't started so that we're not messing with this lowest security network of society. Then I'd like to ask why statistical analysis doesn't follow through on the bill. People who need financial support are decreasing, and there is a direct connection between unemployment and financial support. I would have wanted that much better diagnosis so that we could understand the situation in these matters, that is something we on the committee still need to do on one more trip to get information about. I also wanted to ask if there is a legal issue with the regulations of the constitution. Finally, I would like to ask. For example, when it comes to the circumstances of children, a payment on which they are concerned, I ask about a single mother with a child who is affected by a decline in basics; of course, a home with a child is being cut off. Is it not, then, intended to reach people with children? [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry for many questions, but I have a lot of issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u22	A respectable president. Since changes in the duration of the unemployment period have not been planned, it is not expected during this council, nor do I intend to bring a bill that is related to changes during that period. With regard to statistical analysis, it's true, like what? A senator comes to, that has reduced the number of members who receive financial assistance from the local community. It has been, among other things, as has been said in the local community, because the need for financial support has been set up to work together with a workforce. I believe, however, that it is very important, and it has been repeated in various matters, that the legislazoned by law code on the constitution and legal assistance required, it has been in the way of social services and financial support laws that have not been clear. As a result, when the Ministry has made comments, their rural communities have requested that the legal device be fixed as we are doing here. With regard to the export, I just want the committee to reexamine the way she thinks it is appropriate to frame this clearly on the local authority of the Member States to give the financial support and to have a good conversation with the European Union members as well as with them in this regard. Regarding the legal process: No, it has not been won specifically, but of course I would not recommend a case that I believe would conflict with the constitution. It is just what has occurred recently, requiring the lawgiver to set clear conditions and rules for access and restrictions on people's rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I would have thought it normal that after the last session on this matter, and many reviews of concern had been given a legal opinion as to what is being held in the legal rights of the people for enforcation according to the constitution. That's a couple of lines of paper with the bill, and it bothers me. I trust that according to my understanding, the highest. Ministers, this will not conflict with the constitution, but it will not be enough for me. I'd like to have a logical opinion there. I also regret that the unemployment period is not being extended, which is a legal system linked to workforce participation and market operations. It would have been the natural course for this, and it would have been strange not to start at that end; first, by reducing the rights of people to that system, and then starting to validate the financial support. Many rural societies have been applying conditions. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What action has the Ministry taken to protect the interests of members of the local community? If it is so that most people believe that they are compromising with the law, why does a minister feel that he should change the law and not make serious remarks about the activities of the rural society within the current legal framework? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u24	A respectable president. As mentioned in the previous article, my answer to what? So I think the senator is very important that the welfare committee reviews the framework we propose here. I would like to refer again to the opinions that have come from the General agent and the judgments that have been coming down, including the recent case facing the Ark, where the funds are being referred, on the basis of page 76. The Constitution, the basic duty laid at the General Assembly that it take a legal position to determine the right to promote social assistance on the part of the government, the state, and the community. It has been stated that the law in current legislation is not clear enough. They have been asked to explain the frame, so that it is guaranteed that they are working within the primary obligation mentioned here. In this regard, there is a way. In addition to natural emphasis, it is reflected in some of my historical history, which was spoken of as preventing long - term noncooperative work. Some of the clients who are part of the rural community who receive financial support have made no rights in the unemployment insurance system. Here, however, we are considering creating a set law frame around the teamwork of the local society and the employment agency to make sure that they too can help them. This, in turn, is reflected in this basic political view that it is very important that we help people as much as possible to help themselves. It has simply been shown to be successful, helping people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u25	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying it like hell. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Ingagjörgdóttir at the beginning of his opponent made me sad that we brought this case back here on our table. There are things I would like to ask the highest. Minister in. But I'd like to start by saying that I'm sad that I didn't get a legal opinion on whether this law was working to form a law and a constitution. This is one of the less than 1st things. The welfare committee made it a small part of their committee party last year and I thought the minister should have the right to go to that job. So I have to say, I think it's kind of awkward to point out that it's important for a welfare committee to go to that job. She certainly did this last year, and a part of the Committee found that there was a great deal of work to be done. But then I'm going to point a question to the highest level. The minister then says in a summary of the results of the bill according to the Ministry of Health, the bill will have a positive effect on the financial situation of the rural community. I would like to ask: After the much discussion and criticism that the bill received last year, was it not an effort to assess it, to have financial support, or to produce their children? Didn't they try to find out what kind of environment we could be going into with these laws? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u26	A respectable president. I want in answer to what I said before. What we're talking about is built on the 76rd floor. The Constitution, as well as the U.S. commissionee, has stated in his opinion and in both the Supreme Court and the District Court, which refer to the essentials laid down in the General Assembly that they take their position as legislators to the right to provide social assistance to the government, state, and rural society. In this way, the Lawgiver is to make sure that there are general, accessible, and clear rules about the content of the assistance that individuals have the right to have because of various social factors. It has been repeated that this arrangement is not sufficiently clear. It's been requested from the locals that it be clear, and here it is, an attempt to do so. My career leaders have also brought bills into the council, not members of this government, but those of the former governments, in other categories, where they have also tried to respond to this basic duty. This requirement is also based on international agreements we have made, social contracts, and our involvement in international employment institutions, which are of minimal place in social security. What I believe, however, is to be the task of a well - being committee now, simply to review the rules presented here and whether there is something that the Council believes is acceptable and clear enough or good enough to meet, as the General wants things to be. And also, as I mentioned, which has been shown to deal with, for example, issues with the Ministry of Education and to the interpreters, that there must be a clearer fundamental policy, and finally, it is Generalis to take sides with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u27	V.E.G. President. It's obvious we're at the highest. A minister looks at this matter in a very different way. But there is another factor in the text that follows the bill and was actually one of the points that were well discussed. The welfare committee last year. The extent to which these trials are being used is very clear. This shows that there is no evidence to show how often financial support is dropped. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Did anything specific between councils ask their communities to go through this, to bring out information so that they could be identified better, to form the number of children in broken homes? I think it's really important that we in this room realize that, of course, this bill, it's going to be a law, affect a lot of children. Hence, it is of utmost importance to prophesy specifically about the effects on your children. Besides, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, because she mentioned it in question classes of yesterday's day that the social security system is one of a number of systems that make up the Icelandic welfare system and spoke there about the role of rural society in securing the financial and social security of its citizens. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does she think it's a strong social security system if people don't get insurance protection in the social security system and they can also be cut off by the basic insurance that exists in the community? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u28	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his inquiry. Regarding the answers we discussed on Monday in a verbal request for the right to disability on the basis of a farm, it is very important that the law clearly states that an individual who is affected must be employed. Experts need to know that the person is capable of accepting employment. Of course, that does not apply to people who, if they had met the conditions for living, would have the right to obtain money from social security. It is important that this should be made clear in the Committee's Committee of Members. Then we've worked a lot of things together with the European Union. The situation of rural society has been, and in many respects it is difficult. It has been observed repeatedly in the cost assessment that it is often difficult for them to assess this in particular when there are suggestions that will reduce their costs, how much that effect becomes. However, it was recognized that this could lead to some saving, but what is involved in the forwarding of the help itself, which would require the use of the funds to ensure the effective measures to be set out for the individual. As a result of statistics or data review of the Social Services Act and disabled people's legislation, there is a significant lack of consistent data and data processing between rural areas. They are now working to ensure that there is a greater agreement between groups so that they can better compare the services of their communities. This is reflected, for example, in the differing criteria between rural society to get on a waiting list for social housing. One member of a community can enter a waiting list there, then move into another rural society, and there's quite another requirement for that waiting list. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is one of the things we need to work at improving.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u29	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss the effects of meat and milk production on climate change. I don't remember talking about it being done here at the Senate Hall, and it's about time. Recently, a historic agreement in 195 states was reached in the Paris Conference on Climate Action. Note that there is no mention of the production of animal products that the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization considers to be responsible for a total of 10How5% of all greenhouse gases emissions, and this is rather carefully estimated based on the number of assessments you have seen. For example, on a global scale the production of meat and milk is thought to result in more than all the transport fleet combined, and we have very high levels of transport and fossil fuels. It is sobering in this regard that Iceland's delegations and other governments were not involved in this matter of Paris conference as if it did not change creation in the battle against climate change. It is claimed that if this factor is not taken into account, it may be difficult to prevent global warming from becoming greater than 2°C. It's kind of this way today that we can no longer overlook the tremendous negative environmental impacts of increasing human carnivore. The facts are simply present. The production of meat adds to the pressures of the earth and its delicate ecosystems, directly leading to widespread deforestation. They are cleared to increase pasture grounds for livestock, also take enormous amounts of water into carnivorous production, and there is a limited amount of energy not to be talked about. The report of the 2010 UN Environment Programme confirms this, and we also know that much of the world's agricultural land depends directly on growing food for animals. In simple terms, instead of eating it ourselves, we place energy, water, and areas in order to produce food. For example, to produce one kilogram of beef, we need ten pounds [10 kg] of food and an abundance of water. The reason for this development, which puts so much stress on earth's ecosystems, is that meat consumption increases as prosperity increases. The more prosperity, the more roasted bulls. The larger the middle class, the greater the number of meats and dairy products. It's just like this, and it may have been that we ate meat as much as we like, but the world population keeps growing, and it's just not available anymore. I don't feel that we can allow ourselves to be sensitive and avoid discussing these matters, but this is still a bizarre case. It's not like we're setting it up that way to attack farmers, we need to eat, and not all are going to be vegetarians. It is much more about reducing the consumption of meat, informing about the problem, and then each one does what he wants. The situation today, in the others and these environmental challenges, including that, is threatening the future of our children and grandchildren, and if we are going to do so, let us be completely aware of that. Then I come to the State's duty, but I think it's their duty to instruct people on the effects of meat and milk consumption on the environment and to use measures to encourage increased consumption of food that has less environmental impact. As I say, people do what they want, but it's at least enlightened. I also wondered if there may be an application here for some Icelandic agriculture. What is the level of carbon origin of food produced by the European Union? It would be a good idea to map it, and maybe this information is available, and I challenge the environmental minister to look into it further. We eat less and less sheep in Iceland, but it's possibly the most environmentally friendly meat when it's taken together, you know. It would be interesting to know. What's the carbon track of cattle production in Iceland? I'd like to know too. Is beef production in Iceland environmentally and elsewhere? We're subsidizing a lot of billions of agriculture a year, are we somehow using this support to push under environmental production? This is an opportunity to negotiate domestic agreements these days. I think this raises a lot of questions, and I find this extremely interesting, and especially important. I look forward to hearing what the senators will say and especially the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u30	A respectable president. Yesterday we had a good and helpful discussion on climate issues, and especially about the Paris convention, and I want to thank her. As we sensed and continued, climates have a very broad link, touching all sectors and are actually a basis for any operation to take into account. I find joy in the social awakening to find practical solutions to reduce emissions, and the agricultural sector is not the exception. It's a question of policy, but as noted in a climate-based application programme, we have a pretext in preparation by the government and the National Farmers Association to help achieve a reduction in agricultural emissions. To get a better view of emissions, we need to improve information and statistics so that our policies and projects will be targeted, as it were. A senator took care of it. Of course, milk and meat are essential, and especially is the great source of protein that we receive from them. I believe that this can be an interesting opportunity ahead of the article and the environment to look into it and to make good use of it. Of course, farmers play a very important role in terms of land recovery and have done and are aimed for greater funding and, as has often shown, for forestry, land healing, and recovery of wetlands. Then we know that all waste is rising carbon lines, and it is also appropriate to mention what we do. A senator may agree on an effort to combat food waste. I have to say, I'm very into the regular diet. With regard to the environmental impacts of meat production in Iceland, we have some good figures on emissions in general from agriculture, not how the share is made between agricultural and consumer products. It is reasonable to make a general requirement for reduction of emissions according to our international commitment, and it is wise to take first action that is practical, along with other benefits. I would also like to mention in this context something that many have pointed to in many parts of the world, and it is the benefits of eating food from close to the environment instead of moving it a long way, since there is an enormous amount of energy that is going to be minimized and we should be doing in the climate. Better energy management is also needed to reduce waste management. The contemporaneous gentleman spoke of the very food for cows, and I have to say that the domestic product is based primarily on grass and hay and is there with a much less carbon track than in other places where food for cows is based on grain and much water, as the senator entered. Ecology is much more stressful, and we must take it from the rest of the world. We don't want to stop the huge assembly that the world's trade is, but I think it's a very good idea that we always think about the climate, even though we may be found and we know that loyalty is a homey stand. We want to enjoy fruit, and the senator last yesterday entered the pineapple that we cannot grow here. But on the other hand, we also want to export goods like Icelandic seafood, skis, and other quality products, so it's one chain. Regarding the question of whether governments should not inform consumers about the environmental effects of carnivore, assessments of consumer climate impacts may be complex and varied between countries and even cars, as I came in. This may vary from country to country, and increasing technology in the future may well enable us to keep our guard on the carbon track of all products, and I suppose even future products need to be marked with carbon tracks, no matter what kind of product they are. It is important to ensure that the environmental impacts of domestic production, whether on meat, milk or other products, are as low as possible. As we have seen, we are cooperating with farmers and others to reduce emissions and build climate - related sectors and society. [[The president calls.]] I want to work at it in a positive way, with freeness of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u31	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you very much for this discussion today, and I'd like to celebrate. A minister may have a positive view of the senator's questions, even if I wish for a clearer consideration of this guide and what to do with it. The battle against global warming is complex and complex, requiring that we who live in the richest states of the world embrace commitments beyond those of others. According to a 2006 report by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, the contribution of greenhouse gas production to greenhouse gas emissions is 18%, which is more than all the world's transport combined. In Iceland, when we discuss emissions, the production of meat and milk has received very little attention. We have to remember that growing animals are an enormous part of the poorest part of the world's food security, and the greenhouse effect will also be affected by this group, so that excessive eating of meat and production in Western lands thus affects the least of them. So I would like a minister to go over it with us whether in cooperation with the Farmers Association to cover just some branches and individual production products and assess how Iceland is going to shape its focus into agriculture so that we can contribute to the reduction of emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u32	A respectable president. In the United States, we enjoy relatively sustainable farming practices, although there are certainly much better things to do. Farming certainly results in greenhouse gas emissions and emissions, and wetlands need to be recovered. In terms of the production of metals in agriculture, the use of metals as fuel is essential, energy exchange, rural and otherwise. There are also great opportunities in rural areas to exchange energy and to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by increasing electricity use. Indeed, the expansion of home radio stations is part of that way. The importance of Iceland's sustainable production in food products such as meat and milk production is much and not only to ensure food security but also to reduce pollution by producing food within the country. There are, of course, massive pollutions of all transports to sea and land on food. Iceland is a grass grower country, so it is suitable for protein production. In summer, sheep feed on mountains, and this is not much of a DNA use here. This has been shown with studies such as in Iceland milk reduces the risk of diabetes, and the Icelandic lamb contains large amounts of omega-3 fatty acids. There are a lot of investments in rural areas that we need to make use of to produce good and wholesome agricultural products. Indeed, there is much to do in reducing agriculture's impact on climate change. That is what all of us need to work to do. But I believe that we Icelanders have a great advantage in many ways and can set an example for other nations as the most sustainable farming. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u33	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion, and it's a great suggestion. A member of Brynhildur Pétursdóttir noted this discussion about the effects of meat production and the eating of meat on climate matters. I think it's worthy to think about it. I agree with what. A senator also noticed that during the big climate conference, agriculture was set aside, and I also noticed that farmers, at least in Scandinavia, had a reputation for this. Farming, such as any other industry, must be part of the work we are dealing with. Farming plays a very important role. I've had a discussion about new agricultural contracts lately said it and pointed it out to me, and I'm seeing that, for example, I'm seeing it. New farming contracts, new agricultural investment agreements, including to answer the call on climate and the role of agriculture in climate. We use primarily international standards when measuring emissions from agriculture in Iceland. We have very little research on emissions in Icelandic agriculture. These standards and methods of accounting that we have used in recent years have told us that some 4.2% of all the emissions of the industry come from agriculture, except for land use. We still have some clues. We have evidence that less emissions from Icelandic cows are due to the way we fed Icelandic cows and, at times, farming production in Iceland. Very small attempts have been made north on the Aegean Plains lab in the Eyjafjörður. We need a much larger source of numbers to build on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u34	A respectable president. I must admit that this is a discussion that I would rather listen to than perhaps talk about because I am far from being an expert on the subject. However, I find this very interesting talk to be the importance of limiting man - made climate change as much as possible. In my opinion, there are times when the discussion is too much to limit our consumption, although it is certainly part of the solution, such as sometimes with energy and therefore, as it may remind me of using technology, using ways to reduce the problem because I don't see that many billions of people are going to volunteer to disappear, and I think people will continue to grow, because the consumption will always go up, even if we reduce the consumption of each person. As a result, in my view we need to meditate primarily on new ways to make use of such things as estimate, or even carbon dioxide, to the extent possible or to prevent these substances from escaping into the atmosphere. I have one thing to say, though, that I'm just a little surprised that no one mentioned yet, perhaps because people think it's a little uncomfortable, but there are ideas of using crickets for protein production, i.e. Not necessarily meat. Many people hope that in the future there will be a Western society that will open the way for such food. People who are particularly concerned about the share of agriculture in food production often point to a high level of protein production, while waste is very small and low in the environment. Actually, it is mostly people's attitude toward the foods that prevent them from eating these things. I can say that I recently tried some sort of crobbatical, and I'm actually nothing in general for this sort of thing, but I have to say, it tastes good and I didn't feel sick at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u35	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. It matters, and this is a matter that points to the future. We had a very good discussion about the Paris conference and the climate. There, I only discussed the use of human beings on the land, so to speak. It is often said that if this number moves from poverty to poverty to the middle class, etc., it takes many of the world's population to live under our consumption. Of course, the matter is so simple that this one earth must be ours. There is no question that, in a global sense, and even in our small, productive country, we need to face the way in which meat production is made sooner or later. In many parts of the world, the water - consuming production of meat has already become a big problem, but it is also the power to grow food for animals that become meat. No question, as individuals, we need to make changes on average in our behavior and reduce the consumption of meat, at least to the extent that we enjoy our high - quality meats on earth. I think it's important that we approach this matter with an open mind. We do this not only by examining the diversity of food but also by using both information and pressure to make it easier for consumers to behave in a reasonable and responsible way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u36	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion, and I think it's important. Food production inevitably leads to environmental impacts. It is important that we look for ways to counteract these impacts, to increase the awareness of the overall impact on the environment from the early stages of food production to the time of food consumption. Similarly, it is important to avoid all generalizing that one type of food produces more climate effects than others, so much more complex than that. The effects of the same food products may vary considerably depending on where the globe is made and where the product is made or where it is consumed. We need to view all the carbon circuits and other environmental impacts in view of local global status and ecosystems. We need to watch the climate impacts of land use. Did the production of forest or land build up? Is emissions or binding related to production taking place? What climate influences have been involved in the production process? Is Addiction used? Does he have to move a long way? Is Transferd Food used? What is the climate effect of this production and transport? Do you need a lot of fuel? Do Participate? Then we have to watch climate impacts during the food processing process and the transfers. Recently, I met farmers who were wondering what ways Icelandic farmers have to balance their carbon origins. I think that's great. Farmers have a number of ways they can use, but it is also important to learn more about the environmental impacts of the EU's single branches. My vision is that in this country, we consumers should first consider buying and earning groceries that are next to us. At the same time, all management or incentives to the industry, agriculture and marine soil need to be encouraged to reduce environmental impacts by new solutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u37	V.E.G. President. In 2016 many people talk about roadside, there are a number of people who have decided not to eat animal products. There are a number of views, but the most expensive journeys, then responsible for global warming and the greenhouse effect of meat and milk production. So this discussion is well - thought - out. At the same time as a growing population is changing their pattern of consumption, meat consumption is increasing in the world. Although lamb consumption has been reduced in Iceland, the consumption of chicken and pork is increasing greatly contrary to the surgeon's guidelines on healthy diets. The current criteria specifically suggest that high consumption of red meat increases the risk for colon cancer and weight gain. We also import animal feed at high cost to raise animals, and much of that production is being made in the meat products that are now being handled by surgeons because of health risks. We can consider, now, when we are going to explore the effects of agricultural production on climates and to use them to shape environmental and health-friendly policies. I'd like to ask if it's the highest. A minister does not consider it wise to review whether any of the public funds to produce meats in Iceland today will be used to further support production of Icelandic vegetables, berries, and fruits.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's irony for requesting a special discussion on the effects of meat and milk production on climate change, end up in a long time ago in need of discussion, especially following the agreement on the Paris Convention on the actions of the nations in preventing climate change. I would like to mention a tremendous part of the food production that has an amazing impact on climate change. It is an excessive supply of food produced in the world today by conserved pollution and the overuse of land, which will depend on the production of food, which will then cause the imbalance of natural life and animal life, not to mention the inequities involved in throwing food when millions of people throughout the world starve or live in hunger. For example, according to new numbers from Yale University in the United States, 40% of food in the United States is disposed of. The same university also shows that every year the value of 750 trillion dollars is discarded worldwide, and 1.6 trillion tons of food are left in the fields and fields or used in a country filling around the world each year. Then, according to Yale's numbers, another 7 million tons of fish are thrown into the ocean every year. These are huge numbers, and it's hard for us to really figure them out. I have strong faith that Icelandic farmers and food producers will look for any means to add their weight to the scales so that the production of food will be the tip of an environmental production process. However, we cannot only attract individuals and manufacturers and consumers to the responsibility for responsible environmental consumption of food and their production but, rather, the system, the State, the government, must take the lead and encourage by means of progressive environmental action in the production of food. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I hope the Environment Minister will step there very firmly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u39	Mr. President. In my second speech in this fine discussion, I'd like to pick up the thread where I put it earlier when I spoke of some evidence of less emissions because of the way we fed our livestock. About half of all agricultural emissions are due to food or fermentation in the stomach of ruminants; the other half is, or else, due to fermentation in stores. It should be technically very simple to handle these two factors, but for this we would need to know more and have, as I said before, a stronger statistical basis to work on. It also counteracts this negative effect in agriculture, i.e. The daily farming, how we till the earth. There is evidence and information on how different plant species in crude production bind carbon. In this discussion, I choose to stick to Icelandic farming and what opportunities and opportunities to influence these important issues. Together, we can make the food for meat, which is what we eat. An apocalyptic term, a much more positive one, analyzing of meat and meat production in Iceland, with the advising glasses. In addition, a number of agricultural arrangements are provided. For example, I have noticed that those who sell an eviction product are already advertised in their manure advertisements of carbon origin. When you compare it between species, there's a huge difference. But we must never end this discussion without referring to all the major pollutants in this context, which includes the latter. in our land use. In Iceland, Reykjavík, Iceland, is likely to have the most important impact on climate today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u40	A respectable president. Thank you for a very good and interesting discussion here. I hope we will continue to discuss this matter. I just want to express my joy with what I have experienced. I think young people are running this fight a little bit forward, at least. I am on the lead in this discussion. Many people are also thinking about animal travel, perhaps even more than the environmental impact, or both. It has been referred to as roadside, some kind of mixture of January and Road, i.e. A vegetarian whom I was about to take part in but soon fell because I accidentally had a parmaginka in the refrigerator, but the goal was met because when I took parmasunna, I realized what I was doing and thought: Okay, this may mean that I should go slowly to the meat for the next few days. In fact, what I think is very important is that it's not on or off, it's a matter of being informed and making decisions on my own. I'd like to call myself ◯reducetarian, I still haven't translated it, but it really works out of reducing the consumption of e.g. Meat and dairy products Actually, it would be worth reducing the consumption above our heads, as we talked about yesterday, because we are a major consumer society, and it has its environmental impact. Finally, I want to sharpen the environmental minister, for I think it is important that we rely on facts and data when it comes to the carbon footprint of the European agricultural industry. I think we've got a lot of shit going on. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson used to shave here in his speeches, and I enjoyed listening. I'd like to get these things better up on the table, because I'm sure, if anything. A minister also came into it, that in the future we will see products clearly marked with carbon tracks, and then there will be some standards we will aim for. I haven't told my last talk about this subject. Thank you so much for your good conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u41	A respectable president. I agree and thank you for the discussion. Passwords are waste, consumption, use. In this matter, as with everyone else, we should be guided by the use of our resources to the best of our ability, while ensuring that we do not waste unnecessary resources. About food and closer environment, I'd like to say that I can say as much as I can. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir from the speaker's office. I thought she came in on a lot of things, e.g. That grassland is our resource, the grass. That's why there's a lot of herbies in this country and it's been from the beginning. From earliest times, we were nomads. I can't go so far as to say that there's something wrong with growing animals for human consumption. I think milk is healthy. I support sustainable farming. The rudimentians can't help it if it chews. As soon as I accepted my office, I said that I would be guided and useful. It has to do with all the factors we have, no matter what discussion we're having at the council, whether it's about plastic or anything else. What was most noticed by what we Icelanders were introducing in Paris, outside the earth, was just land transplant, how we use the earth, and how we can make it better. Yet, the success we Icelanders have achieved and what we were carrying in the sack corner. I believe it is true that we are in such a changed world as I could in my first speech, that all goods will be even more marked by the way they carry them. I agree that it is absolutely necessary for us to get facts and as best information when we start working on the agreement that begins in 2020. Then we will be prepared. Until then, the Kyoto Protocol.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u42	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank an intellectual and cultural minister of Illugi Gunnarsson for receiving my request kindly for a special discussion of artist's salary. No one who knows me is questioning my interest in culture and art, I am personally an active participants as an amateur artist, and I have been behind large and small art and cultural events for decades. There goes the greatest art festival in Gardi, the Fresh Wind. Maybe that's why I'm so worried about how the development of the artist enterprise has been in recent years and how the artists themselves share their goods with one another. In my opinion, an artist's salary is to ensure the status of the Icelandic language, to ensure recruitment, and to provide a position for those who earn a way and respect on the art track and become a foundation in a civilized society. During these last days and weeks, artist's prize has been very much discussed. It is only natural for the nation to discuss how it is accomplished in the distribution of the artists. For example, is it normal for the Management Board of the Writing Committee to choose the distribution committee and then to make up the entire established administration of the Artistic Association of the Artists until 12 months? It has been that way even for years. Is there anything normal about that? Is it reasonable, though, that the art school appoints representatives to a distribution committee and that year after year the teachers of the school are the artists? These people are all critical of society, but do they not see immorality in their own devices? Why don't we change it together? Isn't it time? I'm afraid that if members of the Parliament similarly served in a way that was heard in self - styled approval from the art world, which is normally high in the social debate on various matters. So they must endure when discussing the issues that are in total discriminatory and not acceptable how writers and their trade unions appoint themselves members of the distribution committees, which then appoint artists to those who appointed them, even for many years. An example has been mentioned in the discussion of a writer who has accepted nine years of artist's wages but who has produced little more than one book title at that time. Yet, the director of the artist's commission, Bryndís Loftsdóttir, has publicly declared that artistic wages are a salary that the committee has to support but not in public. Is it not true that artists' applications and products will be made available to them so as not to compromise their strengths? The people have a right to do so. An artist's biggest pay fund is the payment of writers, who make more than 500 months'wages. One of the biggest funds is the remuneration of artists who make more than 400 months' wages. The total pay distribution is about 1660 months. The contractor's salary is about 351 points. K. per month. In all, the distribution of the artist's salary is over 500 million. K. Each year, they are just a fraction of what the government suggests to be art and art of the country each year. It is the Allied Assembly of the Icelanders who hand out funds to the artistsa and who are thus responsible for their distribution. In my mind, it is totally unacceptable that the Allied Council appoints the artist class itself as later, as the examples show and prove it, employs gangry and indiscriminate crafts, we assign artists to each other as if there were no tomorrow. In this shelter, artists prosper with little efficiency, deliver little, yet they are on pay for years, but, of course, not everyone, and the law cannot have the thought that such things are tolerated. Artists and their organisations have by their means forfeited their right to be trusted to care for the distribution of the reward. There are artists who argue that pure political reasons are kept away from artists'distribution for years and decades, as shown by the examples. A respectable president. I wondered, " Is it not necessary to change already the rules of artists'distribution by bringing back those responsible for the financial affairs of the State to the Council? ' I wondered, " Is it not right to take part in the distribution of the artist class, so that the artists who enjoy a good supply of their art receive a different kind of recognition from the nation? ' I wondered, " Should I look more intently at young, promising artists who have no strong financial backlands and who have just come into the picture? ' I wondered, " Is artist pay more connected with certain projects and so forth? ' Is it not time for us to consider the goals of artists, what they are for? Is not the result to the nation? So I ask the highest. Minister: Will the Minister intend to review the artist's distribution rules? How can the Minister ensure transparency of the artist trade? How can we evaluate what accounts for more than half a billion in artistic pay for society? Does the Minister think it's right to accept artist pay? [[The president calls.]] Does the minister consider it proper to link the artist's payment to the progress of the artist's projects? And a question that calls for a brief answer: Does a minister think he should cancel the intervention of the artist?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for bringing up the artist's position. In view of the recent discussions in society, it may not be unnecessary. But I would like to say at the outset that history is interesting to look to the support the artists have received at the General Assembly. Support to artists extends as far as the last decades of the 19th century, with extraordinary funds for them. For example, in 1886 and 1887, the Guðrún Waage was given the strength to study musical art, and in 1891, Matthías Jochumsson's son was given a poet's reward, and Torfhildur Hólm was given the strength to write. In 1967, however, artists'wages were not given until the year 1967, and about a decade later, it was passed on to writers in pay. These two laws were then replaced by a new artist's wage, which was set up in 1991 and then by a current 2009 law. It's a long, respectable president. I'm going to go straight to the questions as a matter of fact. A senator set me up. First, the question is, will I consider using a review of the distribution rules? In view of this discussion, I state that I have already had a conversation with the chairman of the board and intend to have a meeting with the government when the time is due, before, a meeting with an artist's mastership, is a reason for this discussion that I have such a meeting on my first chance. In terms of the question of how to ensure that there is a transparency to the intervention of the artist enterprise, I would like to mention that in the artist's wage law and in the regulations under which there is no law of secrecy. There's nothing in the law that says it is. At times, it has been pointed out that in the 21st chapter. The administrative law is a law that speaks of public members or governmental authorities not having to support their decisions on art, culture, or science. I believe, however, that if men cannot at least publish information in line with the opinion that the agent was given here a few years ago on such cases, they can still be ill - advised, i.e. so that there is minimal transparency, hold down the data, and can be referred to. The reason I mention this is because I think that experience now teaches us that it's important to have this thing that's transparent so that it's clear how this is going to work. I think it's good for artists and everybody to do it. However, I would especially like to mention those on the distribution committees. It is a very difficult and challenging work, and it is a thankless one. Then there will be no such situation that it will be very difficult to get people to sit on such committees. It's a sensitive situation, and we need professionals in these committees. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned whether we should make this choice to the council and my answer to it is: No, I do not agree with it. I don't want politics making these decisions. I see all the problems that exist, and I know that politics can be found in many places, but I still think it's better to have the distribution in the hands of the artists themselves. However, it is important that the decisions are transparent. All of this can be considered and evaluated by the director of the artists'Prize. Then they ask why. A senator's assessment of what over half a billion artists pay for the community. I think it's undisputed, and then. In his speech, a senator actually went over it himself, that it is of utmost importance, if we look at writers, for example, for a small language area such as ours that writers are active. It is impossible to expect an Icelandic language to be maintained only with the number of authors the market holds. It needs official support. We want more writers and more books to be written than the micromarker alone. This is of utmost importance to our community. In terms of artist's income connection, I'm not particularly impressed with that idea, and I could argue with that in my second speech. In terms of linking the artist's pay to the progress of artistry, I just want to point out that six months or more of employment paid by those who have paid them, they should not have full - time jobs during the period of pay, and that employees should report their jobs during the period no later than a year afterwards. The artist's management can cancel a salary paid for a longer period than six months if it is considered that the relevant artist does not perform his art, in the opinion of the board. [[The president calls.]] On the final question, whether to discontinue the intervention of the artist workerla, the answer is: No.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u44	A respectable president. The annual debate over the rightness of the artist trade is now begun. It is a talk that often and often is harsh and unfair, as I found most convincing in the speech of an apocalyptic person, unfortunately. Artmaking is essential for our culture and spiritual life, but it is just as nourishing for our economic and economic growth. We do not want music to keep quiet, any more than we want it to go off. We do not want to miss having good books, stage lists, arts, and designs. It is simply a fact that if there was no government strength in the art of life in the country, including the U.S.A. In the form of a salary, we would be poorer as a nation. Of course, as to whether the job process is the right thing to share, I would like to say that the management of it has improved much in recent years and has become clearer and more progressive, as it were. The Minister of Education went over just a few minutes ago. I'd also like to say that the idea of a saying, "What?" Ásmundur Friðriksson, of taking up the political distribution of the artist class, is of no consequence to me. When advertised for remuneration applications from the labour fund, it is probably clear to have detailed information on the criteria and whether work types, numbers, themes, themes, etc. For example, whether to aim for a job scholarship to those who are starting their art career rather than to those who have proved themselves. These are log-out questions. Now about 20% of those applying for distribution. That's not a high ratio. The entire budget is about 560 million. K. It is nearly the value of two villas on the site of Aggi, and it does not have much to do with the big picture. Let's not argue about the rightness of the artist trade. [[The president calls.]] Instead, discuss how we can promote this aspect and improve our setting so that others will enjoy it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u45	Mr. President. I have to agree that when he almost accused the people of dishonesty, I thought it was rather a harsh saying of a fortune - teller. The growth and maintenance of so - called creative articles have flourished over the past few years and must be considered an important factor in employment and income production in this country. Part of it is the government's grant. Clearly, then, evolution can occur only if an art education is powerful, and artists have the opportunity to practice their art. In this light, of course, the artist's salary is an investment in government income forming activities that are also benefited by tax returns. For example, the artist's salary is comparable to a variety of investments. It may be, then, that artist work depends on artists'working in their field and giving up their full work. The salary is thus given for art rather than for artists. The government's declaration of policy highlights supporting creative articles with the aim of building them up and moving forward as the last government emphasized. All research shows that an investment in creative articles, especially in the form of public support, results in a much greater recovery. Art and culture cannot be marked. These are priceless valuables, and in recent days we have heard interviews with tourists who know the Icelandic artists who did not start at the top but have tireless work to do. Of course, in terms of the distribution of the salary, there are some opinions about how it will be best handled. Today, an artist's interest group has committees that may not be a suitable arrangement. For an organization whose nature is to be free, regardless of, and critical, it is unfortunate to distribute money to their partners despite the orderliness. You can bear that in mind. Working as an artist in the small Iceland, except in absolute exceptional circumstances, is not in itself very productive. Fortunately, whether they do real jobs or not, we have an artist who puts everything into place for the art. I'm afraid we would've missed a few things over the centuries if we hadn't. With the artists, a variety of cultural backgrounds enable us to thrive, and as a result, cultural material of a variety of ways is inexhaustible, and for this, I am truly grateful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u46	V.E.G. President. At the beginning of this discussion, I find it very important that we do not confuse the common artists and the honor artists, which are very different. But culture is important to all of us, and I think very good if it's the best. A minister is willing to examine the arrangement, since it is normal for a matter to be considered and to see if there is a need to change the arrangement. At the same time, I agree with the highest. Minister that this authority should not be brought to the council. Then I think of an important point that was presented earlier in my discussion that there are many artists in Iceland's history who have accepted artistic wages. Then I also believe that Icelandic art is an important part of the country's presentation, although new ideas may always be considered when discussing these subjects. The ideas that have been most prevalent during the discussion are that there will be more transparency in the distribution. It may be a question about the progress reports made by artists whether it is possible to indicate what results they produce and whether they should include how long artists can stay on the salary. It was discussed earlier in Iceland, and it is quite true that the market does not only identify the artists, we also have to make sure that the same artists do not stick entirely in the state's assistance but can apply for others. It is then a question of whether we need to put a link on the artistry industry or if we need to place them on more parties and try to keep up our new artists - I don't want only classed young artists as new artists because they can be new at all times, no matter what age they make of their arts. It is also a question of whether we should look more at national cultural agreements, break that frame, and try to work with certain areas, building roots for these artists. For example, many theater groups and stage artists have cooperated with various areas of the country. It may even be associated with local employment and may take advantage of the benefits of cultural and cultural contracts, including decommissioning from meetings due to personal contact or other contacts with candidates and so forth. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u47	A respectable president. I'd like to say, first of all, that I'm completely against the CIA being assigned to the artists. The distribution of the artist trade and, in fact, all the funds of competitive funds must have a professional appearance and, of course, in a transparent way. I'm sure there's a way to discuss the arrangement of the artists' distribution. The way it is performed must also be completely correct. I guess there are a lot of discussions that need to be ongoing. Why, though, does a talk about artists'prizes each year reveal why? We are providing a lot of social sponsors, innovations, and various projects in many areas, and we do not have the same suspicions about such distributions. It seems that there is always an underlying view that arts give little suspicion that it is a father, something that is just fine and that has nothing to do with it. I am happy, though, in the discussion that most people think that art, culture, and creation make something of value. Some are artists, but much more are paid for artists. On the other hand, the artists who often make the arts do not enjoy the fruitage, so one of the strongest reasons for artists is simply to correct the lack of valuables that are often not directly addressed to artists unless we have one of these systems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u48	A respectable president. One of the factors that make up my stand is the fact that we are a tiny nation in a small country with our own language, which is basically just spoken here. My explanation has always been that the Icelandic people want to hold their language. As I've said many times here, that means we have to pay for it. We have to pay for it in cash. It cannot be avoided. The Icelandic language will never survive free language simply because it is too small. No other nations will ever be Icelandic in the near future or in the near future. We have to spend money on art, and I think it's a question of whether it's an artist's fee that's right sometimes forgets that point. This is a very important point, no matter how right-handed you will be in the group. Yet, there is little in itself that I can but rejoice to say. Secretary of education. It seemed to me that he answered all the questions correctly and had his emphasis on the right points. I have to say, like many others, that I don't think it's customary for me to move the distribution power to the Generals. I think it's one of the worst places to decide these things. I'm sorry. I'm in trouble because I'm in trouble. A top-of-the-art Board of Education... where we review this so-called honor art pay every year. It's just a phenomenon that I'm not necessarily against myself, but I'm totally against it because I or members of Congress should make decisions about it. That doesn't make any sense to me. Every year I curse this arrangement in sand and ashes. This is not to say that I oppose the salary itself. Rather, it is very important to be right about the matter, that transparency is there, and most important, I believe that it is important to live by the rules and standards to the extent possible. However, it is not always possible to make a great deal of it when it comes to art because it is very thoughtful. The more we can do of it, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to first celebrate the ultimate. The minister was explicit in his view that he would not think of laying off an artist's salary. Of course it doesn't have to be welcomed, I thought it was obvious. But I do not agree with the minister that this is natural, in view of the discussion in society, because it is an annual debate that is exhilarating into some nervousness. I'm just saying that I think it's incredible. That people think that it is not necessary for the State, for us who have lists in this country, to strengthen the individual enterprise in the arts of this country. Artists are people who stand alone and write books, play music, as music, paint pictures. These people have no support, no organization, no office to go on. This is our support, the people of the country, for our enjoyment of these arts. There's not much to pay for these people in a month; 340 you. K. In the contractor's salary. There's gonna be something about 245 of you. K. Some may receive three months. A respectable president. I'm telling you right now, I don't understand this discussion. But rejoice that the Minister of the country and us here, the greater part of this council, I think, seems ridiculous. Well, then I haven't come to what's really important; the culture is a great economic barrier here. [[The president calls.]] I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should read the books of Ágúst Einar Einarsson, a former professor, about the practical effects of art, movie art, and music in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u50	A respectable president. I find it interesting that day and night. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has a special discussion on artist's salary at his platoon brother, the highest. The minister of education and culture, appeared a MMR poll on Iceland's attitude that the state pays artists. The result is that a greater proportion is included in the state's payment of artists and has the share of the government paying artists in the last few years, about 14% since 2010.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u51	I...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u52	Happily, this shows that the attitude of the individual is reflected. Not the opinion of the majority of the people and the general public, except for the attitude of the voters of the district and the Independence Party, but the attitudes appear to be fairly clear when considering the stage in general. [[I'm one of them.]] [[I'm...]] I'd like less. A senator is designed to provide creative articles on a total of 190 billion. every year. The smallest part of it is in the form of a government strategist. I'd like less, too. A senator, in case he has forgotten that in the government policy declaration he supports, it is a requirement that it emphasis on supporting creative articles. I don't see that it's consistent with what he's doing here, at least. not from this public address. I agree with the members of the council who have expressed their opposition to the decision that artists'wages are chosen by the Council. I'm very glad to hear that. The Minister of Education and Culture is opposed to that. We can give endless talks from the Alleger's symposium on the importance of a list for us as a nation and for our community. I believe we all agree on the need for a list and a powerful art life that can't thrive properly except as a nation and society support arts and artists. This is done not only with spiritual support but also with financial support. [[The president calls.]] It is the least we can do to thank the nation's artists for their contribution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u53	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. Ásmundur It's not because I'm against the artists, at all, I'm a complete follower of Friðriksson, but I believe it's our job to discuss matters at the council in a critical way in order to improve legal matters and to improve our community. Whether the discussion is annual, less often, or more frequently, it does not matter. Like other members of Congress, I'm glad we don't stand to change the artistic law. Art is absolutely vital to us, and I'm sure no one here would want to reduce this support to artists. We need actors, painters, writers, and all these good people to give our lives a color and depth of spiritual life. In times of turmoil in life, there is little to spare. I agree, though, with some of the people here who have spoken that I feel that we can totally look at these income connections. And even if there is not a law on secret in the current law, I think it is a question of whether we should still set specific laws into the law that merit information, with the objective of increasing transparency. I think we all agree that there would be improvements to make the peace more settled in this matter. We need to put away our suspicions and I'll agree with it. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son, this suspicion is just tiresome and destructive. This is a matter that will be settled in society. I also agree with those who have mentioned that we should emphasize a new artist and possibly a temporary contribution. [[The president calls.]] You also wonder: The productive artists who never get any strength, even though they apply for them, why is that? Don't they have the right friends? Are they not good enough to fill out their applications? We need to examine it as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u54	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson gave an unusual talk on this matter, an unusually long story - story talk in which he took a story presented in one media that one of those who had accepted an artist's reward had published only one book in the past nine years, a story that has been corrected and explained. Even so, it does. A member of the council that some of these topics are spoken and framed as an example of how unacceptable all of this is. Besides this being wrong, it's absurd to expect an artist's wage to be conditions for some kind of manufacturing unit, as it sounds to me. A senator wants to do it. It's all right. A senator likes to give up gangbangs and untransparent practices, the better for a better person to live. Let us, though, discuss this in a larger context. Let's go over how they decided to split up 400 million. K. who were supposed to make port reforms here by Christmas. [[Up front.]] They had one representative on a financial committee to decide how to trade them, and he decided to suggest that 100 million, 25% of their money go to sea in his district. Let us take together all the official strength provided by the government for public projects each year and compare these with the strength given. [[It's just, you know, it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... ……]] [[Up front.]] Aside from the cultural roles of these artists, there is, of course, one way or another, a fund for jobs. Then let's just put it all together on the table. I'm going to be so bold in this discussion that I'm not to be particularly grateful for this discussion, as many people do here when a special discussion takes place, because it is based only on a political desire. paritaprevir The Ásmundur of Friðriksson, according to the votes of those who are suspicious of artists. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u55	A respectable president. I'm going to start by thanking the discussion, though. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall didn't have much to do with it. He began talking about ports in Grindavík or the country area when we were going to talk about culture and art. As I said in the beginning of my speech, artist's salary in my opinion is to secure the status of the Icelandic language, ensure innovation, create a position for those who earn a road and a respect on the art track, and remain a foundation in a civilized society. That's what I said. I was primarily critical of the arrangement of distribution, and I am glad that most members of the councils mentioned here agree with me that we need to examine the procedures of distribution that are in force. It is important that we do not turn the music off or turn off the lights. No one's talking about it. We're talking about making peace about the arts, and that's what we need to talk about. We need to have the strength to talk about these matters, even if they come up regularly because the land is not pleased to have a clear view of the projects. There is no transparency in the application procedure and not in the distribution. That's what we're asking for to be changed. Well, it seems to me that most senators, if I'm out of the way. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, I want to see how we do it. Of course, Róbert Marshall can continue to explore the harbors in Grindavík, but we are going to try to strengthen the list by making the process more productive and beneficial, creating a setting that is natural in this important language, as presented here. That is important to the entire nation. Thank you very much. Minister for coming into this discussion and for his good answers. My questions were not necessarily based on some of my ideas; they were merely cast out to discuss them. I thought it was important how he answered them, and I thank all members of the council who spoke up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u56	A respectable president. Thank you so much. A senator for the discussion. Art and culture are such an important part of Icelandic society that it is only natural for us to talk to him at council. I have understood this discussion so that it is twofold. On the one hand is the question of distribution rules, and we have discussed them here, and the question is, Should we have an artist's salary or not? I understand that so that we're going to keep them going. In turn, humans can deal with the rules of distribution. When it comes to the question of why we discuss this, it can be said that art is meant to be dead. Art is an enormously important force in society, and I think that when we're sponsoring artists and the arts in general, we're investing in society. I think it's important that you live in a decently civilized society. What I see as a civilized society, it's just my definition, is a community where people can enter the emotional life of other people, understand the consequences of their actions and actions in the lives of other people, and relate to them. What do the lists, Mr. Honorable President? Arts do just that, training us to put ourselves in the mind of others. When we read the fiction, watch the arts, or listen to the music, we are putting ourselves in the mind of another person. It is certainly the training that lays the groundwork for a civilized society. Einar, and he can't see the complete lists, but they're important to help us on this journey. To live in an open, free society that is the basis for the capitalistic economy, it is simply enormously important. As a right man, I'm ready to assume that this is how the government invests in it because I also believe that opening society is easier. We do not need to set rules regarding a number of human behaviors that we should be able to trust in a certain way in civilized human society. It's this context, between the civilized community and the capitalist and the open economy, that I at least emphasize and are willing to invest in and think is important to an Icelandic community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u57	V.E.G. President. I'm here to discuss a bill to legalize the Community Services Act, on terms of financial support. To be honest, I was hoping this bill was over. But no, it was the Government Constitution, and now it's in. We were a few senators who spoke highly against the bill here at the last council, and that has now taken little action. Some extraction changes are, but the main element is the same. It is to provide some kind of budget for financial support to a community; no obligation for a certain amount of money; just a reference. And there are conditions for which a certain group of members of the local community are to be authorized because they do not have the time to work. The bill reflects the attitude of people who are very unpleasant. You see, all of us share in wanting to take responsibility for ourselves, to be there for others, and to influence the community in which we live. However, we are created different circumstances to live up to our need. We here have been selected to play the lawgiver's role are in a privileged position in this regard and should consider it very seriously, pay close attention as we begin to impair the rights of those who have come to the community because of poor financial circumstances. We should bear in mind the privileged positions that we now enjoy and identify with those who have had to go to the local community. Most of us here have had to, I may say - perhaps someone - but no one knows our lives until all of us, and though we are in this privileged group now we might get into this position, but then it's too late because then we're done, bound for our eyes, to set a frame for others without putting ourselves in their shoes. In 1st. The last time I gave a speech, I reviewed the proposals of the legislature, and it was a big deal when these legislation, in the time of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, the then social minister, was accepted and translated from 1991 onward. It was then a pivotal law that made a big difference in attitudes. I'm going to quote, as in the final part of my report. It says by permission of the president: Therefore, it should be viewed, not as unique regulations in this bill, but as contrary to official custody of individuals or groups. This includes helping the individual to gain the security and the conditions needed for him to live and thrive in a natural way in association with others. If we want people to live and thrive, we will do so with encouragement and support if necessary, not by a rebuke. You could say that the bill is the highest. Social and housing minister to say that there is a social issue on the individual's responsibilities. I miss the fact that there's no statistical notice here on financial support. I reviewed in the last session that the proportion of people in financial support, after the massive financial breakdown resulting in the collapse of banks and crowns, was similar to the proportion of those who were under financial support after their previous economic problems, even though the situation was much less difficult. In fact, we should be proud of the results we have achieved now this severe economic crisis that has kept this many above the limit. This happened despite the fact that the largest rural society, Reykjavíkurburg, raised the financial support and brought them to the highest level in the country to meet the most critical groups in the crash. Because I can't get enough information from the bill, I went into the Haguen site. In order to get the share, you have to lie down in a vat yourself. You can't find it right in one tablet. But I began in 1997, 2002, 2007, 2012, 2013, and 2014. About 1997, there were about 2.1% of financial support at some point over the year; most are only a little time that is thank - you, since it is very difficult to draw out life on such payments. In 2002 it was about 2.1%, but in 2007 it was only 1.4% of the population, since there was a greater level of good. These figures went up to 2.4% 2012, 2.5% 2013, and now they are back to 2.4% and will decline as the level of employment really affects this. That's where the interaction lies. Iceland now has less than 5% unemployment, and it is already taking care of and helps people in Reykjavík to a minimum of 10% between years. Of course, it should be our competitiveness that most people do not have to rely on the financial support of their local partners, but we do so by locking them up rather than by ensuring circumstances that they can support themselves. Although it is never displayed in lyrics, it is often heard in the language of those who recommend it as being done, i.e. to allow a breakdown of up to half of the help that comes from people who refuse to work if they are employed or have a working option, that is, single men, young men, who hang on to the computer, and who have no time to work. It's an idea that's pretty alive. It is not that there is anything that specifically argues with it. Reykjavík's figures showed that there was nothing more in proportion than that of young people who were in need of financial help after a crash. But this is a group that is the most sensitive to market fluctuations; people who have not often completed advanced education and people who have virtually no experience in a labour market, when economic degradation is run by unemployment, and who find it difficult to get firm in a job market. It should also be noted that many who come to the countryside because they cannot support themselves have often come to a closed door. These are individuals who have not received the help they needed within the school system, who have not been able to provide subsidiary psychological services, the tolerance of sexual abuse with some form of posttraumatic stress disorder. There are many situations in people's lives that have caused their lives to be unsatisfying. That has been a great adversity. This is by no means absolute, but often it is coming to the countryside and asking for financial support to overcome people's lives. I think it's another trip to prove the importance of this right government that the unemployment period has been reduced by six months. There, however, it was possible to direct people into efficient measures, and various conditions had been authorized. The possibility for further education has also been narrowed. Why aren't you changing it, extending your unemployment insurance period? Because unemployment is still too high, although it has certainly fallen a lot. And why is it not to increase the supply to further education so that more people can educate themselves but not judge because they are not interested in the literature and are in the workforce with poor rights and salary? Then go between the workplaces without employment, and look for ways to earn a reasonable amount of money, lose hope, and perhaps live in a society that does not expect everyone to have it. This government has the message to these individuals that it is their hard work. It is not ours to create better conditions and to understand that society is diverse and needs all its energy and that it is necessary to offer everyone an opportunity to benefit himself and others. I'm embarrassed. But I'm very surprised that, after our last job at the Committee and our demand from our smaller parts, it is not supported by a brief legal opinion as to whether this is in accordance with a constitution. V.E.G. As a minister, I am surprised that there are no statistical assessments that support the purpose and objective of the bill. I'm surprised that there's still a couple of kids in this picture. I was so wondering, at least. President, how to determine if anyone is qualified to work. People go to disability and disability, which is where doctors come in. I believe that employees of the employment agency are very powerful, but there is no expert in evaluating whether people are employed or not and have stopped making such decisions within a rural society and at the employment agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u58	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir for her speech, and I guess that's all we can say in this case, is that we agree pretty well. That was our last session, and I heard from a talk. A senator says that we are now when this matter is being presented a second time. Hv. At the end of her talk, a senator came to realize that there is no logical legal opinion on the bill, and there are no statistical reviews. This also struck me because it was one of the things discussed at the time. a welfare committee last year, i.e. lack of information. I wanted to ask you why. A senator's lack of information about the group that has been affected was not surprising in the months since the case was last discussed, that he did not go to the job calling after this information and trying to assess the effects, not only macro but also the minor effects of already used conditions, how this affects the group. Is it not a mistake for the minister not to have gone to that job?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u59	Mr. President. Yeah, and that's one of the things I didn't come into my language, which is exactly what it is. The Ministry knows that there are conditions for financial support. It is considered very dangerous to pass on current laws. And what does the Ministry do? It just offers to change the law. The law should not have a protection role for the citizens. Rather, it is an obstacle to the local community that wants to use it in another way. Certainly people have to work with them. Many people come in here temporarily and need no assistance except for a certain amount of financial assistance. Others need extensive help in getting back into their normal routine. That's what local experts are up to. But we don't know what happens to those who fall out of financial support, and you want to know: "Did these people work? Were these people at work before they were not given up? Did these people go further on the edge of society? Are we creating even worse conditions for these individuals? Of course, it is suggested that this should be so good for everyone, but there is no evidence to support it. And when we ask what happens to these people, they just shrug their shoulders. It is a respect for the welfare of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u60	V.E.G. President. I can see that. A senator agrees with me that this is an amazing practice. One thing that was also discussed with a welfare committee was the effect this can have on children, and that is another matter. A senator entered his talk. So I'd like to deepen it and pray. A senator's answer to the issue of whether it was particularly important because the bill specified that the pay that is specifically intended for children should not be minimized. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she believes that this is really possible or is it really possible? Is it possible to limit financial assistance to parents without harming their children by making special arrangements for children so that they cannot be affected, since children are part of the household? And if it had not been particularly necessary to examine this vulnerable group. Children of parents who are in the financial support of rural society do not live in a financial state at home. We have just received a report from the UNICEF in Iceland that was reviewing the lack of children. Would it not have been necessary and now does not have to undergo a real analysis of the impact of this bill, if it took value, on children, and in particular in view of the new information we have on the lack of children in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u61	Mr. President. I answer yes to that question. This effect on children certainly needs to be identified. It seems to me at the numbers I took from The Haust that in 2014, these are, of course, old information, the population has dropped, 7,700 people have been helped some time over the year. Of these, 2,500 had children. What does the UNICEF's new report reveal about the lack of children in Iceland? That the children of tenants are more likely than other children to live with the shortage and children of people who have a ratio of less than 50%. I think that when we look at these numbers on paper and see that there's a lot of children behind us, the children who are experiencing significant losses in Iceland are thought to be about 1,600, we have to wonder, and not just think about it, but we have the obligation to look especially to the children, for, of course, the percentage of children with whom we lack to be in this group. It is by far the most remarkable hypocrisy in the discussion of poverty and poverty. We are ready to speak as if we are going to do something about it, but the same practice continues and does not look to the interests of children in such matters as these that have to do with a minimal security net in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Just because I'm only temporarily due to another meeting just below, the Árnadóttir Þóra Auradóttir for having a friendly taste of letting me get in front of her. This bill is a very important bill. It really is a message to the person in need, it is a message for help. Happily, as noted, the number of members of the community's community service has been greatly reduced. But this is quite clear, and it has been published several times on the committee in the case that the case has been discussed and presented in the past, clearly stated in the Committee by the members of the board on these issues in the community service of the local community, that where the cards and conditions are applied there next. This success is mainly for these people to get it into the workforce, to put it to work, to study, to put it to work. The representatives of the Hafjörg town of Hafjörg came to us for one or two times and told us of the important work they did in cooperation with their local job life, their companies in Hafnarfjörður, their social services, and the people who were involved in these benefits. There were conditions that would require that those who receive an offer for work be used otherwise. The conclusion was that the complete majority of the reformers accepted the work the companies offered. I can no longer remember the numbers, but it divided dozens of individuals, created tens of new jobs in Hafnarfjörður was created to destroy this unfortunate list. I remember the interviews on television with the individuals who had received their legal release and who were able to work, work at the town, work at the companies, do real jobs, be at work every morning, and walk back home. They were providing for themselves and their family. Of course, they needed to be directed only to that course because we who know only exist in this world know that it is truly amazing what a human chain is quick to adapt to all kinds of situations that are not practical for her, especially for young people, that often turn around, and that is difficult to return. The bill appeared first during the last assembly. It was a promise by the then government to complete it so that their societies could have a common policy in these matters. It wasn't done. Now it has appeared twice since the start of a new government, and we have not achieved it. However, there is a decrease in these arts, which are naturally the most joyful and all about society. There's a bluescrowding ahead of the job, and that's why people are missing. That's why it's important that we keep on doing this, that we get these people to help us, and they come back to the job market. I know this, and we all know that what has been involved in this is that first, their joy comes back, first when they have something to do. It's so important to help people to survive. I visited the United Nations, along with several members of the council in the fall. There we visited the United Nations institutions, including the development organization, which is actually just the social services of the nations. Although things are going on a completely different scale, it was so remarkable to learn that in that institution, there was nothing going on in their evolutionary affairs until they began to set conditions for success. So it is at the Church's Department of Help for Food because it is available and with the aid groups that help people in this country. Unfortunately, we're still in it. Of course, such adjustments need to be made. But there are requirements for assistance. This has had a positive effect. All members of the committee were encouraged to make up the requirements to help people. I consider this good bill of the Minister to be presented in order to assist these people and to have the common rules of the rural society, not to be different rules between fellow members, which are naturally completely impossible. I thank the Minister for performing this bill. Of course, this situation is bitter, and I find it in my fellow council members who do not agree with me on this matter that it is, of course, warmhearted and kind people. Of course it does. I have no doubt about it. It also speaks this way, although we may not fully agree on the road and the way to do the best to these people. I believe, by letting the bill through and accepting it at the council and finishing it now for spring, local authorities will create a position to help the number of unfortunate people still on their implementation. We will help them to be self - helprs. It is the most important thing that the bill bears.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u63	V.E.G. President. We will again discuss a bill to correct the change in local social services laws, to the conditions of financial support. I have to say, I was sad to see that this matter was to come back on. As I'm going to come closer to my talk, I feel even more sad that the subject is back on schedule with no more detailed information than it was last year. Hart was able to handle the situation in 1st. last assembly. What it revealed was, in fact, that everyone agrees that it is important to contribute to the social functioning of people, and that, of course, includes those who attend to the financial support of the rural community. I have no doubt that everyone agrees on their importance of activity and agrees that, of course, people are being helped to find work and become active participants in a job market that can take care of themselves and themselves. However, we differ in ways and methods to achieve the goal of human functioning. I'm thinking this isn't the way. The way to contribute to a person's effectiveness is not to provide such a requirement for efficacy that if not met, rural communities may reduce the financial support they provide. In addition to the SmPC data, which include a summary review of the results, the Ministry's assessment of welfare is that if the bill is legalized, it will have a positive impact on the financial situation of the rural society. There must be some evidence that rural communities feel that they are using this bill to save money when it comes to paying financial help. What I feel is missing, however, and I've only talked about in reply is not to try to evaluate the impact of the bill if it is approved, to provide financial support. The context data shows that although many rural communities are now following some of their rules, there are no data to form on how often financial support falls into part or in total. The first time, though, when the bill was submitted last year that it was missing, even though I thought it was defective last year, I actually feel even worse that now, when the bill is submitted again, it is not evaluated, nor has it been called out for that information from local communities, and it has some way of credit to the group, which has been more severe in terms of failure and conditions for financial support. When the matter was taken into account. The panel of welfare at the last council gave the following to a smaller section of books. I'd like to read the book, which says, with president's permission: ▪ In the work of the Committee, it has clearly been found that many of the perplexing questions relating to the impact of terms of financial assistance on those experiencing them remain unsatisfactory. The experience of conditions, the benefits of such conditions, and how they affect those who are used in such terms remains unclear. We feel that there will be a much better study, so we violate the fact that the matter will be taken out of the committee. A respectable president. Therefore, it is so sad that this information was not made up by the Ministry, it was evidently a willingness to reexamine the bill. The bill also shows that it is forbidden to limit financial support, which is specifically due to child development and intended for children according to the rules. Now I have no information about how and how many homes children have been used for financial support. I think it's a big fault, because I've proven no idea if there's any children who are more than the ones involved in living in a home where parents are welcome to financial aid in a rural society, because there's still not much money to be paid, even though they may be, we can say that there are few gaps between rural partners. We have just received a report on the status of children in Iceland where it turns out that a large proportion of children in our other rich welfare community are in want. It was shown in the matter of what. paritaprevir The Sigríður Ingibjörg the Ingadóttir earlier found that there were 2,500 families with children who received financial support from rural society in 2014. I think we simply need much better information, because after this report, we know that children who have their parents at 50% or less are more likely to live in want than other groups. We must want to have better information about this group, because as hard as I think it is for adults to live in poverty, I think, and research points out that it is even more difficult for children who, of course, are in a delicate formative age. Since the Ministry didn't have a better diagnosis of the group between council members, I'd like to refer it to the question. The well - being committee I no longer sit in is that she takes this into consideration, whether and how many children live in homes, on the one side where parents receive financial support, and on the number of homes that have been used by some means. In fact, I cannot really see how it should be possible to limit financial support to parents without harming children even if what is especially to be done by children is to be impaired. We need to take a special look at this. I also worry about it and feel that there is much better information about what happens to people who have been conditioned and who have thus suffered a loss of their compensation. What's going to happen to that? Experience from Denmark has shown that there is a danger that people who have been unemployed for a long time and who have because of the efficiency of the conditions have fallen from recoverys just gone further out of society, out of all community involvement. This will really be part of some side community, a side community of people who have no money to support themselves, and that means that they are all forbidden. I don't want to see this in our welfare community because I think the cost of this in the long run would, of course, be much greater than what might shortly be some savings in community expenses for financial support. It's cutting fast. There is one point that I would like to bring up the subject. Two. The bill on which conditions must be met in order to meet conditions, it shows that if a person who is respected partially or completely but does not meet the requirements for active jobseekers, it is permitted to reduce the financial resources of the enterprise. I think it's important to read this in context of the debate that has been quite significant about the changes in the social security system, where we're talking about taking up the quality of life. I think there's a chance that there'll be a deadly conglomerate. Thus, in Iceland there is no law against discrimination in a labour market because of a decrease, which basically means that there is nothing against employers against discrimination in people who don't have the full energy. When these two things are combined, i.e. On the one hand, partial benefits can be paid because they have a measure of work ability, and on the other hand financial support may be impaired if, for example, people do not meet the demands for effective work purposes, when people are placed in an extremely difficult position. Here I feel that the responsibility of a person to a more delicate position is given to me, but no comment on the responsibilities of the workplace is being given on increasing levels by people with less ability to work. [[The president calls.]] I think that out of this, there may be some very disrespectful places for those people. [[The president calls.]] Finally, because my time is over, I want to direct it to the welfare committee to think of this interaction.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator with an interesting speech. I was at the last assembly against this matter, and I still am. I have to admit that I've been thinking about this a little bit more and thinking about the future mice in these matters. I myself believe that no one should be poor. Also, I find interesting about a procedure called in everyday civil pay, although I am not fully convinced of it, and the Congress party of Porta has proposed to consider this option, especially in the context of professional development and longer - term employment participation and so on. When I think of the bill, of course, one aim is to explain the legislation, that is not as if these legislation are absolutely necessary in order for rural society to start terms with financial support, they already do. But they do so on a legal basis that some may view as unclear. So I'm wondering if opposition to this matter is necessarily the key to changing things into the litigation group to the extent that I am. A senator feels better at this time. I wondered, " Is this really a matter that determines whether financial support in the present legal environment is adequate or not? ' That's why I wonder what I'm doing. A senator will look at the arrangement, what it should be like if we forget this bill altogether, if we act for a moment as if it's not being discussed here. What does it look like? A senator of the arrangement as it is, especially in view of the fact that financial support is conditional, as is done by rural society in many lands, on the basis of current laws?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u65	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the question, of course, because of the utmost importance. This is part of our welfare system, so we need to think about how these matters are being handled. In fact, it is the last Internet to catch people if they cannot provide for themselves for some reason. That's right, it's now that rural society uses conditions. But there has been a difference of opinion as to whether it is really permitted to do so. As I understand it, this bill is exactly what it means to make sure that it's possible. It simply makes me feel that I've been getting ahold of the matter on completely incorrect grounds. It's being a blessing to them, that it's right that their societies have been using conditions, and in fact, they were just construing it, as it were, between local communities so it's done everywhere. However, it is still as wrong approach to cope with the problems of this group, whether in a uniform manner or not. You see, I think things that are so social and, of course, as important to individuals that for some reason have fallen from a job market, are helping people to get to work. That's what I think the government should emphasize, i.e. to put money on a means of efficiency so that there are a variety of ways and a variety of practical help. [[The president calls.]] Maybe I'll come to the burgers in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u66	A respectable president. I'd like to think that I'm not necessarily convinced that a citizen's salary is practical, but it might be in the circumstances that we were looking forward to a 30 to 50% unemployment. It changes everything. We live under a very low unemployment rate, so at the moment, I don't think I'm responsible for the civilian pay. I consider it important, though, especially in the light of technological advances that will continue to increase and become faster, that we are ready for the questions when they finally arise in an environment where it is not just realistic but possibly necessary. In any case, I agree. A senator of the need for effective measures, and I have not noticed any disagreement on that. They may be more reasoning about how they want to approach it, whether they want to do so by terms of financial support and efficiency, or by means of an effective strategy, or by just one. I don't know exactly where there's a problem with efficiency. Everyone seems to agree that they should be there. Of course, they must cost money, but it is money that is likely to be some kind of investment. Rather, I ask myself, " Is this case really the basis for this discussion because it is proposed here as a premise, which also seems to be given as a prerequisite in existing law, at least in the opinion of the local communities and in terms of those who use financial support? ' Now I may be ignorant, but I don't know that the decision has fallen into this category in order to allow the requirement for financial support to be illegal under the current law. So I wondered, " Should I not approach the matter more fully from a complete vision for an extended period of time, regardless of this particular aspect of the seminary? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u67	Madam President. In fact, I agree that this matter should be approached from a complete vision. Of course, part of that holistic vision must be what kind of community we want in Iceland. Do we want a strong welfare community? We all know that it costs money, but there are differing opinions on how to raise the money in order to run a welfare community. Therefore, I believe that we have different opinions about how strong the welfare community really should be. It's a little hard to put your mind around the holistic vision when you bring the bills like this into it because I don't believe in the way this is being suggested. I do not really believe that this will improve the situation of the people who have to rely on the financial assistance of the local community, although I do believe that this will quite improve the financial situation of the rural society. There are people first and foremost that I'm worried about in this context. It will never be, I think, a better measure of the welfare community than the way in which those who pay attention to their feet do have it in the community. It must always be the final measure on the welfare community. I see I don't have the time to discuss the civilian pay, but shouldn't it be that we'll ever take a little talk about them at some point in the future? That'll be interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u68	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a community service bill, i.e. ............................................ I'd like to start by saying I'm all for this bill, but we'll hear it on the discussion. Councilmen have different opinions and look at the bill from different angles to view it. Many of those who oppose the bill view it as a set line of social services when some have a problem. Councilmen in favor of the bill view it as an opportunity to promote individuals so that they can take advantage of opportunities for self - help and be able to make a personal approach and help out in the labour market or other labour market resources. Today, a number of rural areas are making use of conditional financial support. If this bill becomes a law, the community doesn't have to do it, it will not be the responsibility of the rural community to follow this procedure, but there are rules here on how to offer the relevant community support and coordinate this between rural society. As mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. Social and housing minister as well as a few speeches have been made. The members of Congress include changes to the Community Services Act and are appointed to give direction to rural society for the implementation of financial support, including There is a set of guidelines for financial support that rural society can apply to the sentence of its own regulations for the implementation of financial support. However, rural society is suggested to provide more clear sources of support for the financial services of rural society in the activities of those who are able to work and receive financial support where they have not been hired. It's worth saying, because I've seen a misunderstanding in the last week's bill discussion, when it was under discussion, that the bill does not reach the people who are fully disabled. This includes individuals who are considered to be fully competent or to some extent. The bill went to what? The welfare committee for the last spring, soon a year ago. Then we discussed it here with 1st. and then went to the point. The welfare committee, where there were a number of reports on the subject. Let's see who does that. But the bill was taken from a committee of three committee views, which was said by the majority list and two viewed as smaller parts. I just want to review some of the factors mentioned in the Committee mask of the greater section I supported. In addition, I'm going to give myself some time to discuss a project that has been done at Avéri, in my hometown of several years, facing these criteria. I'd just like to grab off the Committee's opinion of a majority of the welfare committee from last spring. It shows that these rules are common in most rural areas for the implementation of financial support and that they already have the authority to provide financial support. In some cases, it was necessary to promote the efficacy of those who received financial support, thus preventing them from being dependent on financial support for the future. At the same time, they could contribute to the limited resources available for financial assistance to those who would need it. I want, with permission of the highest. President, go to the next paragraph of the committee opinion. It says: A further section of the Committee considers it proper to consider that one of the activities of rural social services is to encourage individuals to be responsible for themselves and others and to help them to self - help. 2 mg. 1st par. Treating local community services. Thus, comments to the bill on what became the law: ▪ Although the bill provides a range of duties for rural society to ensure social well - being of individuals, the principle that individuals are expected to be responsible for themselves and their own is emphasized. Later, the comment stated: "The bill emphasizes help to self - help so as to provide assistance and service as a means of survival and the ability to lead a normal life. Therefore, this rehabilitation or suitable option should be held in high esteem in connection with the assistance provided, whether it is counseling, financial support, or employment care. In 1st. 76. g. The constitution, Sbr. 1.mg. 14th par. track No. 97/1995, says that all who need it, should be legally guaranteed to aid in sickness, disability, old age, unemployment, poverty, and similar incidents. In a comment, we're 14 points. bill of law No. 97/1995 says that the person who can provide enough for himself would not need to be properly helped for such help, as notes to the bill on the topic under discussion. The majority of the committee - why. welfare Committee - it is considered fully in accordance with this baseline thinking layer on rural social services 1 mg. 76. g. The Constitution that a person's right to work for financial assistance in a rural society is conditional if he seeks to get a job to qualify for himself and his family unless there are compelling reasons for doing so. In view of the greater part, it is neither a negative nor a criminal approach but a natural consequence of the individual's obligation to advance oneself, to his or her mate, or to children under 18 years of age. 1.mg. Twenty-niner. Treating local community services. The majority claim that in most rural society's rules of implementing financial resources, financial support conditions for effective jobseekers are already in place. The majority claim that they were well and are useful to rural society in working against long-term inactivation of financial support from rural society, which may have poor personal and social consequences. However, rural communities have called for a clearer legal structure. Our plan, our highest. The social and housing minister is explaining this code of laws because, as mentioned in my speech, a large number of units work under these conditions today. I respect that members of Congress have different opinions about things, of course, that's all normal. I want to tell you of a project that has been done in my hometown of Aranesp, and I have been cooperating with the work assignments of Skaga position, the employment agency, and the Aksin shop. These conditions have been applied to individuals who receive financial support and who feel that jobs are sufficiently useful or that some of them have passed through the conditions and have received an individualized approach. Work is an individual basis in cooperation with the person in question who trusts, through experts, sociologists, psychologists, and those who work there, to take the step and select market resources, whether in the labour market, to study, or what it is now. At a home where the town runs various service stations, such as gymnasiums, swimming pools, and schools, a place to work within these institutions, where individuals have been assigned to a suitable part - time job in most cases. There are people who have been at home for a long time in cases where I know them, and who have needed the help of experts to get out again, who have not trusted in taking these steps alone. Sometimes I'm on my way up to a gym and I've met people there, both those who work there and those who are doing some other work, who have been going through this process. I especially remember meeting there one person who truly thanked me for the presence of this system. In addition, I have met people in other institutions who share the same story. Because we were working on these matters at the same time when I met these people, I asked them how they had been and how they had experienced this process. I remember very much that they all told the same story, that they were grateful, that they had been home for too long and had not trusted in them, had come out with social anxiety, and were sure that they had not gone out to see people without this help, a conditioned social assistance. And because I've heard the stories of these people, I can't watch the bill out of a sense of punishment, but only as help for these people, who would use to help people who need help to get out among people and to participate in social relationships and the like. I find this to be quite helpful, but I still respect the opinions of others. In addition, I have received a presentation, and I was told that the Agency's body of the Agency had given a presentation on the activities of a former profession, which said that most people want to work and that most people want to move to farm. They have been successful in their work, and those who have made good use of their resources have been very positive and happy. So I look at this bill in a positive way. I'm glad we made it. But I'm a member of the committee at the moment. The church's welfare committee, and it is to be taken into account that it is not the duty of a member of the community to comply with these rules. Rather, it is a rule on how to work on these matters. The matter will be addressed in a material way. The Senate welfare committee, where we will send the case for review when it comes to calling different parties, rural communities, and others involved in meeting the committee, and then the committee will discuss the matter. I look forward to that work, hoping that there will be different opinions of individuals and why. Senators are allowed to enjoy themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u69	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentioned what I think is exactly what most people want to work to do. My experience with life and people who don't work very hard and others watching and thinking that they could work more or something like that when I've come to know things like that, and that's how I've met situations like each other, I find that there's always some underlying problem or misunderstanding about life and life that chose. In view of this excellent initiative, which is very interesting and would be pleased to hear more about, from Aranesp as well as from other sources. A senator appeared to me to be that if there's some sort of intervention that leads people to a course of activity, whether it's a job party or another type of activity, something that gets people out of them to hang out and not do anything that some get stuck in without perhaps having a formal analysis of any kind, you can make enough room to encourage people to function and to work without providing conditions for the financial support of your colleagues. As I think about this matter more, I'm more confused as to whether these ideas belong to the state or to the local community. I get a little more confused about the more I think about it, sometimes it happens. But I wonder what. In fact, a senator feels that if there is sufficient opportunity to intervene and lead people along the way, he will need to meet the need for financial support. The reason I ask is because I believe people want to be active and they need to be active. If it's not active, I think there's either a problem or some kind of misunderstanding about life.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is so that rural society is conducting social services in the country and its implementation and the General Assembly, which lawgivers make the rules. This bill is a agreement between the state and the local community for its appearance. In view of the fact that there are often underlying problems that cause individuals to be in their position, I think it is very good for them to receive an individual approach and the help of experts who can handle these things and can guide the individuals in taking small steps toward becoming active again. Sadly, though, it often takes some sort of thing to push people, such as conditions, to get them started. In the cases I know about them, this has had a positive effect. Since they have received individualized help, people have not been affected. It may have started at one, two hours a day in some options, whether it is going to be a few each day at a course or at work. It is enough for me to see that there are individuals who come out and help these people get self - help so that they will be active again in the community. If I couldn't answer some of my questions. The senator will ask him to repeat them for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u71	A respectable president. As I was involved in another answer, all of us seem to agree on these effective measures. I'm sure everyone here, with or against the bill, would be very interested in the initiative. A member of the council mentioned from Acdéri. I'm very interested in that. What also attracts my attention are reviews of the subject when it was presented in spring. Then I noticed that there were mainly social workers who opposed this, mainly because they thought that the kind of motivation to take away the financial help could be negative, could be to increase problems such as anxiety or something similar. That's why I'm wondering if the efficiency measures, i.e. Some sort of intervention where there is an effort to help people on the right path in life -- which is doing things because it is much more fun to do something than do nothing; I think of it as such an obvious fact that I just don't believe that anyone really wants to do anything, I don't buy it entirely; I know that many people disagree with me about it, and there may be a philosophical attitude behind it rather than research - or ideas like those that don't. A senator did not simply say that it is sufficient, i.e. If they go far enough, and the goal is to make them work in such a way that they increase the effectiveness of people. Would that not really be the best way? Then I also wondered about the impairment, which I respect for the fact that people agree, I don't think it's humanity when I disagree with it, but I'm afraid that the impairment will replace such resources, so when rural society and the state try to make efficiency, it's less pressure to let it work when it's the best way they can because there's a impairment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u72	V.E.G. President. I thank you again for the answer. Why we go to a losing bill - it's a deal between state and rural society, i.e. The rural society has carried out these issues and has called for consistent rules to be followed by. I can't tell you if it needs to, but this is what locals call for, the manager who has handled this case where it has been used. I can say anything. Senator. I can't believe someone likes not doing anything, as a person who always has to have something to do. Of course, all of us differ from humans. As I'm saying, I rejoice that there is an individual approach, an individualised approach planned in agreement with the individuals involved. They also have something to say about it. I also rejoice that there is only an individual's workforce, not an unworkable one. I look forward to having a material discussion about the subject. The welfare committee in due course.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u73	Madam President. I think there's a possibility that we're gonna have to. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir agrees that people should be encouraged to work, and it is important to the individual and to the community that people are active. But we clearly differ in what we believe is likely to contribute to people's function or what is simply acceptable to them. It's the disagreement I'd like to try to get in front of me at what I want to do. A senator. I found that very interesting. A senator spoke of, i.e. how to work on Aranesp with individual approaches, where individuals who have not trusted to take their steps to the workforce alone, are helped to form people with societal disorders. Hv. One senator said that these individuals spoke of their receiving much help in this crisis. I wondered, " I know why. ' A senator whether these individuals have suffered some degree of impairment? Has it ever been shown in the discussion whether these individuals consider the threat of failure to help in any way? I just don't see how this level of activity is going to help people who suffer to develop sociable anxiety to become active members of society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u74	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We agree that it's good that people are active. She asks what is likely to contribute to the effectiveness of people and tells us that we discern the methods we should use to contribute to that activity. She asks about the individuals I quoted and has had a conversation with because of these matters. At least I know that I have been working under those conditions for some time at the ARBR. I believe these individuals have participated in the activities of the S.P.A.'s work programme. I can't tell you if they've been affected or not, but at least they were employed in labour agencies, so I believe they fell under the legal requirements, i.e. Being in the hearing, they have the right to all the support offered by the social services. At least they have thanked these measures that they are where they are now, at work among people, and in social relationships. That alone is a very positive thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u75	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I just want to say again what I said earlier, that I agree so heartily. A senator that, of course, is to use individual approaches and help people to function and meet them where they are static. It is exactly the group that is not active and that I have not been giving an answer to the talk I came to include in my speech, which I am concerned about. Experience in Denmark, for example, has shown that by using impairments, people have moved even farther to the edge and are actually moving farther away from community involvement. I wanted to ask you what. A senator, for we sat together. The welfare committee of the last winter, whether she could agree with me that there would have been improvements now that we discuss this bill here at the second time to have better information about the limitations of the communities and how they have affected the people who have suffered them. I don't think there's any doubt that the individual who is able to function through the individual approach has often been successful. It's people who've stepped into a job market. Does the senator agree with me that it would have been a great improvement to have information about the way these conditions have been treated by those to whom they have been treated? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u76	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you again. A senator for the second answer. We agree that individual approaches are good if we get people into them. They always improve, for there are different ways for each individual. Hv. A senator asked me if I had been greatly improved. A welfare committee if we'd had evidence of this impairment and such. It was mentioned in the committee. In spring, most rural societies in the country actually used this impairment, but since these are not compatible, there are different ways of doing so, where databases are not very complex and very complex to obtain these information. There is a collection of data and collection of information on the status and quality of social services in the country. It's a question of when it will be there. Of course, information is always good, but considering how this has worked because I know about it, I have a good feeling about these matters. In addition, I would like to end up here that it will not be the duty of the local community to comply with the rules of the bill, if it becomes a law, but it is only a rule to coordinate the service between rural society which can help us with all the data and information on the status and quality of the social services of the country. How important it is that we have access to that information!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u77	A respectable president. I'd like to introduce myself to this excellent and perfunctory discussion. Since I was not on a welfare committee last winter, I was not a participant on the bill, but there have been controversial and very strong opinions about it in various directions. I'm going to have the right to follow it on the committee this time. I know the matter, and I've followed its progress and know it since contact with the societies; it was in the hands of a former social minister, so that the person in its office is not the first person to have wishes that come from various rural communities in these areas to some extent clear the situation in this foundation of financial support. There are, of course, various viewpoints that can be understood in this matter. But it is true, I think, that if you do not overdo positive interpretations, as I feel that in the discussions here, you can only turn this around with a positive interpretation, a positive approach, and say that instead of having this as a requirement and authority to reduce financial support, this would be particularly appropriate to help the group there. Of course, we can say that some of it can be, of course, but this is in the foundation of the authority to reduce financial support, it cannot be spoken out of the contrary, although it may be managed to achieve a positive purpose if it is done in an upbuilding way. To me, it's about these two totally unrelated aspects of the bill itself, i.e. that it is in the foundation of the local community's authority to state financial support and to remove it from people under certain circumstances. It is also related to the origin of the matter. Now I'm not minimizing that my rural society wants to have clear rules in these areas and that many of them sees in this opportunity to work with the object group, but we're not supposed to be forgetting it, just to be very positive, that behind, of course, there are communities, many of whom, ideas that it could reduce expenses. We know well when that situation was brought back. It was when circumstances were certainly much more difficult than they are today, unemployment significantly, and I don't talk about when the current government went on to cut even the period that jobseekers enjoy rights to unemployment; while unemployment was considerable and it was a long - term lack of employment that the rural communities even assumed that not only hundreds but even thousands or between one and two thousand people could at certain times lose their rights to unemployment benefits without guaranteeing that they had jobs and would make nothing more than a career. Then pressure developed that could be introduced into this structure and is active in the unemployment system, i.e. job-based activities in which you try to ensure that people who are temporarily jobless and who are looking for a job remain active, use time after incidents to re-vise, educate, but are also active in the job search. It's still there, too. Even if we are all glad that our unemployment has been reduced, and the problem should not be as serious or as concerned by our communities as they may have thought a year or two, these conditions and those things can come back. On the other hand, it is at the bottom of the social security network, the welfare community. It is the bottom - end Internet that is to be taken when other alternatives are not available, when people have lost their right to work out of the unemployment system, have no medical rights, or have paid from another source, and have failed to earn money in a job or another way. It is my hardest time in this matter, even though you try to understand all these views. I must simply say that I find it extremely difficult to accept that the welfare and rights of the people in this country have become so, in fact, that there is no ultimate network under men who make sure that they always have some minimal contribution. For what does it tell us that a person who has had to rely on this extremely limited support, which is now not generous, has been removed from him even if it is only for two months? What, then, should be considered? Is he supposed to live on half? Is this justified? Can there be sound reasons to do so? We know the situation because there is nothing else that will replace it. It's not like that. He is on financial support from the local community, enjoying social contributions because he has nowhere else to go, and he has no other income. It's just that way. This is a check to put people out at least Half the time, we intend to live on the air. Yes, they can say that to some extent a person can blame himself. They can say that it should only help him, but I have an extremely difficult time with just the fact that this possibility is there, I have to say it exactly as it is. Then I come to something else that I feel is going a little past the human level, eager to find out on this positive side, that, in fact, this will help a lot of people to get started and go into an active job search or to look for resources to get out of the situation of being dependent on the financial assistance of a community. But do these tools need to be used to do so? Let us not discuss this as if it cannot be thought that it will happen in any other way than this, being tied to a negative premium of over you losing out, this little forward, if you don't do this. Of course, it is possible to think, and so it should be, that the rural society was working very effectively with this group entirely without having to have such a weapon in place. This is done in some places simply with positive, upbuilding motives. I think it's a little bit about that. In this case in particular, when there is no other waiting for man, I think that it should be viewed as the last puzzle, if they overthe head think it justified and ascend, to the condition of the financial aid of a community. How could positive ones in these respects seem? Yes, they can, of course, look very similar and active labour market operations do, that in a systematic way they were working with this group, he could receive personal support, receive visits, his cases were examined, he offered support, he offered assistance, he offered support for paying student fees, or material expenses if he wanted to make use of such things, and even support directly for going to work at a labour market, rather than having social payments with men for some kind of work as partners, after working with his job life, trying to ensure that they would always be offered for those who would be able to perform a certain level of work ability, at least to a significant degree of work. This isn't new under the sun, to be honest with you. I know an example of how unions working for unemployment benefits in their area, which may have been, and despite a fine job situation, rolled some list of dozens or several hundred jobseekers, had it systematically covered the list and contacted all who had been on that list for more than three months, and went to work with them to try to find employment. Although they had the right to pay unemployment, they did not have any rights, simply because the union wanted to work with these people and wanted to help them get back to work, even though they were entitled for unemployment. In many cases the results were excellent, perhaps reduced by the list, by nearly half of it in a certain area where I knew very well and observed such work that was very positive and upbuilding. I can only see that the rural communities could have all kinds of resources, so the state could be on hand with people who are in this position. And that, of course, must be done, for we do not want to see anyone become permanent and lasting, so that there is something very important, for years to depend on the financial assistance of a team member on their survival, since the situation in this country is adequate and highly respected for a certain extent of work. Often, such matters take time to sort them out, and sometimes a certain time is needed to identify the individual's course of action. Is he on his way out of the workforce and into permanent disability? Is he in a situation that differs greatly and in different circumstances as we know each other? As a result, I find it strange - in view of the fact that things have improved greatly and have continued to do so continuously for just one five, six years in Iceland, at least five distances since 2011 - we should still be making trouble with our hands. I could accept that there was a careful legal opinion on exactly what the court should be in these matters, so I could not doubt what was permitted and what was not and what was not and what was unwilling to do and what was not. It can also be accessed simply by basic attitudes or prince's fingers in connection with the systems and answer this question first of all: Will we be over the welfare system so that there is no last safety network ever to catch, that there is always a guarantee that there will be minimal chance for human survival in the community, and that assistance will never be taken from them, they will never be expelled from that system, there will never be cut holes in the bottom safety network of society in this respect? I feel that this is almost comparable, if it is done, to accept that people have nowhere to go, that people have the authority to turn aside to the duty of the welfare community to make sure that they have a haven somewhere, a roof over their heads of some kind, if not an apartment house they themselves can afford, would try to see that they can have at least a home or in some other place. I don't think anyone would agree with that. We're not going to land here in American condition directly with homeless people on the street. But this is really the next town if we're going to accept that the occurrences may arise that some of the people who have had to rely on the financial assistance of rural society must survive for months, perhaps some time together, on half the amount of material progress now that most people can hardly say is counterrepresentable, so low, if humans have anything else to disappear. I'm saying there's something else here to distribute, but when it's temporary to help with those who don't make ends meet because of low incomes or circumstances like that, to get some additional support through their rural society. But when we're talking about people who don't have anything else to go away, and that this is just so that the basics can be impaired, I think we're on a pretty high track, I have to say, Madam President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u78	A respectable president. I kept thinking about what I've been wondering about in my previous answers. Everybody seems to agree that efficiency is a good idea. Everybody seems to agree that they're working too. I have to admit, when you're more involved in this, and the more I think about it, the more I'll be somehow in both directions. But I'm against the bill right now, but it can always change, especially if it is. Those in charge are more involved in the conversation that I really appreciate, or they often come up with something new that makes you think or learn something from. What I'm worried about is that the failings do not test the effective measures to the extent that they would. It is often, for example, that if people have very severe punishment in some offenses, they may rely more on police toughness or authority, rather than on solving the problem by some other method, they rely more on it. I'm just worried about this because instead of being part of a community, it's a little bit of creative to create and motivate people to participate, not just to do business, but to take part in life, that they either take the lead or that they don't get back to work because there's always a decrease. This may be one of the things I'm most concerned about when it comes to the bill. Away from what I'd like to ask. A senator about something else I went out to earlier: Is it really this bill that makes this party end up? Because the local community is now enforcing financial support, and no one seems to question the legality of the courts as far as I know. [[The president calls.]] But is this bill really the main thing?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u79	Madam President. It's certainly a strange situation, and I can say a tense position. Some rural society have, in effect, conditioned this assistance under cover that there may be a certain legal insecurity or a legal vacuum in the situation without naturally testing it anywhere, since this group may not be the first and most likely to go to court because they have lost financial assistance from their rural society. The question is, how will the lawgiver respond? Of course, we have two ways. If we just swallow that it's justified, we'll change the law and say, "Yes, we're allowed to do this. Let us, therefore, make sure that certain limits are wrapped in them. We may also come to the opposite conclusion. The fact that rural society has been doing this to some degree, and many of them in good faith, I know, and I know it, and I've liked it well, wanting to do well to their own people, under the cover of a clear legal situation, that is not in itself a definitive argument, and we conclude that this is the case. That question must be answered by the General, both legal and non - legal bodies, as well as moral fundamental questions about this subject. Again, I come to the same thing that I left a little over in my speech, it's the bottom and last safety network in the community that's supposed to catch people when other options fail. When there's nowhere else to go, this should be there to make sure that, at least, humans have some minimal chance of getting along decently in the community. This is how I view the basics of the case. But then I also feel that this needs to be discussed with some sort of efficiency and that it works. Yes, there is no doubt that it is important to help people to avoid being cut off and turning away from reality, gradually accepting this existence, helping with trying to cope with it, but it can be done with positive and negative signals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u80	A respectable president. Of two ways I would definitely agree with the positive rather than to the negative end, sociologists point out, as noted in our reviews, that the negative approach may be harmful, at least not exhilarating, not more exhilarating than the positive methods. There's something else that's going through this discussion, and especially in the answers given. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir in our conversation, that's the part of the state, and the role of a member of the country in these matters. We have a social security system that we often discuss at the General Assembly, and not enough, it's incredibly complex, it's not simple now that it's the business of having our rural communities with this financial aid that plays, I expect to be very different in the public security system. I wonder, if we're gonna have the last net, let's call it, something I'm completely involved with, isn't that something that really belonged to the state? There's been a few reports that my rural society wants this from spring headlines, I'm reminded, maybe they'll let me down, maybe there was one thing against it, but I can be wrong. But if we're talking about something so closed a safety network as we're talking about, if it's the basic prince's step behind the ideologies, then I think it should be in the state's house, either in the social security system or in some other system that would be somehow related to it or connected. I've had a bit of this over my head because I had a conversation before. A senator often explained that this is also a partnership between rural partners, which is probably right and good in my own eyes, as an independent goal, but I would love to hear from it. A senator will see the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u81	Madam President. It can be true that this is a matter of concern to us as to how a work is divided between the state and the local community, of course but it has a very long historical background. The large transfer systems and general rights guaranteed nationally, the state is traveling by disability, pension, child support, or whatever it is now. But it has a natural tradition that when it comes to the inhabitants of rural society, it should be a community, near society, shoulder some responsibility for things such as those whose heads are somewhere to compromise, the duties of the rural communities in the area of housing and the duties of rural society to minimal progress, and the contributions, of course, are very old for the failures of the country, and a number of things could be said in historical light. But that does not necessarily mean that this is the best arrangement. However, making the community, the closer the community, responsible for this in the sense of when it comes to the daily existence of people, is assured of the possibility of having food and shelter, is closer to the community's responsibility and is shouldering a great deal of responsibility in it. And, anyway, I generally think, in a better way, with the idea of moving more of the parts to the countryside, which turn to closer society and integrate the whole cohesion. I think it's actually a better approach than taking some of this back to the state or all the way there when we get to this day's intimate activities if we can say so. So, finally, I want to remind you of how delicate these matters can be and, in fact, that men have been considered to some extent to be employed, it does shine well on paper, but that is not always a problemless job. [[The president calls.]] How do you identify the problem of a spiritual person, a problem completely hidden and hidden, that cannot be seen on the outside, such as anxiety, discouragement, discouragement? [[The president calls.]] It is not easy to define such a person as 30% or 50% of the tool. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u82	A respectable president. Here's where we'll talk to a bill of the highest order. Social and housing minister for changing local social services laws. We are, in effect, a bill involved in a fundamental policy change in the forwarding system of the image we know about it. The main entry in this bill is to allow rural society to set up rules for financial support conditions for effective jobseekers. We've been discussing this all over and over in the General's symposium, and here we have raised doubts about this bill, as shown in the reviews of the bill that has been sent in. I just want to wonder about this active job search and the conditions here are setting up in the bill, but as I say, a fundamental policy change in the forward process is being made as we know it. If you meet the person who has been evaluated in part for work, you will not be allowed to perform the job search conditions, if the bill is agreed, you can cut down the basic financial resources of up to half. Let us recall that the basic financial level of financial support in Reykjavík, where it is highest, Madam President, is 174,952k. per month. According to the bill, this amount can be cut down by up to half of the amount of 87,476 k. This will be the amount an individual should be able to earn if the person is not working on a job search and will be able to survive this amount for up to six months. This is a change to catch people in one of the weakest places in our society. The community service system is being tolerated in order to create an even more difficult social situation for individuals who already live in extreme and difficult terms, both financially and socially. All of us know that few of us choose to live a balanced life and choose the social status and lot in life to accept financial assistance from rural society. Sadly, this group is creating a system that is further confined to this group and can reduce the potential for people living under these circumstances to become more active and to get closer to the workforce and to become more active members of society and more financially strong. As has been noted, people who have the right to provide financial assistance in rural areas are not entitled to other incomes. This is the amount of money they live in the rules of today, and the bill is about cutting. These people, this group, depend on this fundamental community security network. I have much doubt, and share them with other members and sources, that the threat of this bill, if possible, and if it will be agreed to cut people's financial support is the most efficient way to promote and assist them in a poor financial and social situation. I have to admit that I prefer to believe in other positive and upbuilding ways to get people into the job market. I think that should be the focus of a welfare minister, i.e. will strengthen people to become more active members of society at the same time. It could be with encouragement and support, psychological support, by promoting money into that issue rather than threatening a person to suffer a degree of impairment. Also, I would like to reflect on it in the General's symposium on Article 1. The bill is being added a new paragraph that reads: In agreement with the European Union, for example, for the implementation of financial support as well as the financial resources used for financial support. In other words, the bill puts power into the minister's hands, of course in consultation with the European Union's partner, of the reference height. I don't think it's right or at least the material to discuss it will be more specific, especially since the bill is not discussed further on this reference height, whether to coordinate the amount or to raise it, or how we are going into changes in the reference levels. But I think it's different too. The spirit of this bill grieves me, I must say. I can only see that it is merely taking care of a direct financial advantage of reducing the financial support of a community, i.e. Reduce the financial assistance of fellow members to individuals by narrowing and reducing this amount. At the same time, the driving force of this bill is financial, but it is not based on the welfare principles that I would have thought a welfare minister should focus on and direct all his energy on, to activate and strengthen this group that is the way it has been done in the case of other members of Congress, the group who rely on financial support, does not rely on any other income, rely on the fundamental safety network that we have built up an agreement to exist in our community. I think it's a serious thing if we're going to use the threat of less money as a way to activate people. In the Regulation with the bill, reference is made to a project of Hafnarfjörður, but I think that we need more research and guidelines on how these routes have proved to be in other countries, countries we have compared to and countries we should look at when we watch social services and how they can benefit people to build up but not reduce their potential to be active in society. I hope that once this bill returns to the committee, there will be changes in the need to activate people rather than threaten them with a restricted law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. It is clear that while all seem to agree on a particular prince's challenge, such as the fact that we are to be organized, we are to guard those who are less fortunate. But the more I think about this matter, the more I get confused, the more I'm actually going to be over who the future music is going to be in the category, whether or not this particular bill is going to be approved or not. As mentioned in other cases. Congress is the purpose of the bill, among other things, to harmonize the way things are done between parties. One of the things that really bother me about the social security system is how unorthodox it is. This does not help the communities, but it gets worse if something is because there are, of course, different rules with different emphasises and people with varying degrees of impairment over their heads. It's gonna get a lot out of my mind. That's why I'm kind of wondering if this is the real thing we should be focusing on, whether we're in favor of this particular case or not. Whether it would be rather close to trying to reevaluate the group from some kind of long - range view of how we're going to have all these safety networks. We have the social security system to handle pensions, disability benefits, and the like, but then we have this system, which I would have thought was in the same package, in a completely different direction, unobtrusive and so on. That is why I see a little something on the bill quite positive, although I do not agree at this point that a conditional financial support should be required. But I feel that something must be done to cope with these problems, as the bill says, is designed to solve. I wondered, " What is it? ' A senator sees to it that we do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u84	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Because the Senator mentioned the harmony and harmony of the system, I just saw it in the review of Iceland's Scaring Association, which is exactly how this harmony is. The review of the Quantum Community states on the regulations of the bill, i.e. that there is a agreement between the budget of financial support between rural societys as it is proposed, by permission of the President: It is not clear how the regulations of the bill should contribute to a greater harmony, as it continues to base the counseling rules and the self - determination of the local community. This problem will not be solved unless the minimum amount of financial support will be established throughout the country to ensure harmonization and recovery. So it's not clear by the bill, like what? A senator came in, what kind of uniform rules are being suggested, that, in fact, and what future music is playing in this category. Only that a minister will place this reference level in agreement and cooperation with the European Union and it is some form of it - it's just their decision in millimeters. No other party comes in as a client for that job, as I understand it. So I'll say a little bit. A senator here lacks agreement and consultation, as may have been suggested in the bill. I wonder what. A senator has some ideas there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u85	A respectable president. I actually have just one idea to go, but it's very radical and, in my opinion, isn't practical at all, given the circumstances today, and that's civil pay. But it is some long - term thought that we need to consider in decades of context, in view of a very modified community, especially with technological progress and unemployment following them. But what may be most confusing with me right now is that I feel that this is a role that, in fact, should be part of a system such as social security or some similar system of government. On the other hand, after my conversation with what I'm talking about, I feel like something. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon here, not hastily wise to withdraw from the local community this role and submit it to the State. When you think about it to the end, I would think it would be inexplicable and discuss it a bit. But also, I don't think it's a good idea, quickly, to bring the social security system to a community. So I have to face up to the fact that this is always too complicated and somehow not compatible with the precise role of social resources or some kind of assistance to people who either cannot or is not in a position to obtain conventional income, i.e. with a job. I feel that the future mice are really getting away from us the more we talk about this, and that's what I'm having in a bit of trouble. There, in part, my doubts are that this bill is necessarily a matter of central importance. These languages in general tend to be complex. They tend to be controversial, I think, but they'd have to be because they're complicated, and that's why I really want to see a few decades of full picture of how we're going to keep it all together. I can't see it myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-27-68.u86	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for providing us with insight into his speculation of harmony in this system, which I don't know if it can be one flat figure or whatever the senator's concern is. But an example of this inconsistency. A senator may be trying to suggest and enter the same requirements for job search and job search in terms of financial support and unemployment. This is, in fact, being in line with certain demands and responsibilities for those who accept the assistance and those who are unemployed and who already have an active job search but are not the same group. We're gonna go for a second. A senator can, I think, agree on that. But the main theme I think I can talk about and say here, and now it's time to go. A senator must share in the vision of some kind of more powerful, more efficient methods than those found in the bill we address, which is always so threatening to take away money from people as soon as they are going to be the way to activate people and they become more active citizens in society. I don't think that's a good idea.
