ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Independence Party to the 4th. Witchest. Þrídís Þórdís Kolbrún R. Gylfadóttir, can't attend next week's Congress. Today, then, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the Independence Party lists the district's list of Hafdís Gunnarsdóttir. The Hafdís Gunnarsdóttir has already been investigated and approved, but she has not taken her place before in the Council, so the commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u2	Hafdís Gunnarsdóttir has signed her pledge to the Constitution and is welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u3	The President wants, on account of the reasons, to remind you of the rules that apply to the Constitution of members of the Convention. Registers are received after 0100 hours. 8 In the morning of a meeting day, as shown in the records handed over to members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u4	A respectable president. I'd like to come into the situation, just as it is now in the community, especially in matters that we'll discuss here in the week and in the month, which are the budget. We are in a situation where an emergency call has come from many of the most important institutions in the country. They desperately lack money in the infrastructure that most people, if not all groups, praised with beautiful words before elections. There is a cry from the nation for health reform. Less than 87 thousand of the country's population, or about 40% of the voters, signed a collection that would provide quick access to health expenses to about 11% of gross domestic product. That's a lot of money. When the signatures were returned, the council took quite well into account that there should now be something to do about it. The parties voted as if it were their will also to place considerable money on that subject. Older men, and poorer, and their place. Aren't we going to deal with it? Are we going to pretend it's something that doesn't concern us here at the Hall? Land hospital, college, college, National Security, Refundation Fund, in all parts of the world it's a call to the community that we're putting more money on what we said we were going to do for elections. It's a contingency plan. V.E.G. Sadly, Bjarni son of Benediktsson's finance minister took the initiative to care for what the council commissioned him to do, to find money to finance her. It's our job to go through it all. Only next year will we need about 27.5 billion except for what will be noticed. I'm glad there's a lot of them. Councilmen have been talking about increased expenses on community and elsewhere. I'll say what. Einarsson Oh, my God. paritaprevir Benedikt Jóhannesson, why. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir. I'm glad we're getting along at the council to remedy the situation of mass expenses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u5	Mr. President. I think it's a reason to pay attention to words. An active minister of finance at a meeting last week for a meeting of the Bjarni son of Benediktsson, discussing a so-called bandorm for the budget. There he turned his attention to some of the government officials of the media regarding the need for the money of his own institutions, considered them to be critical, and had some harsh words about these practices. I use this opportunity here to criticize the highest. Active secretary of finance for his position and comment. I believe the directors of important services are naturally permitted and, in fact, obliged to inform the public of the serious problems of their institutions. Of course, the directors have discussed the matter, sharpened the financial needs of the institutions, the executives, and the members of the council and have reasoned on it in various ways. They would prefer to have the public informed at the beginning of a new election period or during a matter of state affairs as members of the community to make the nation aware of what is going on. We need a good term, by permission of Mr. President, at the English term ◯propenic servant. Just like me and the highest. Active secretary of finance is, for example, a prosecuting agent. Hospital directors and head of community servants. It's time for such people to act. We don't distrust them, do we? And they do not automatically feel that they are exaggerating the need or making wrong numbers and that they are not angry when leaders of the institutions that are important to the community are having a conversation with the public about the facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u6	A respectable president. This refers to the work of the council, and it is the nature of the matter according to what we have to do, the necessary thing, just before Christmas, including the budget. We are now, for the first time, working by the laws on public finances, and the reason we agreed to that law is that we want to be like the nations most successful in this regard. However, accepting the law is not enough. In these countries there is an interpolitical agreement on a certain kind of work, specific wording, and how to behave, including those in the United States. in the media. It arrived, e.g. magazines, as it were. A senator spoke here and the highest. The minister of finance, he pointed out the obvious, that the words in the media today are not in harmony with what we claim to be involved. If we say we want to be like other northerns, do we have to act like them, or don't we? A respectable president. There are some things we don't discuss here that I think are huge, including. ... underlaws. They never talk about reducing debt. I ask, a respectable president: If we're not going to reduce debt, if we're not going to make ambitious plans to reduce debt at such times, when should we do so? The interest rate, and that does not include pension bonds, but the pension debt needs to be paid too, is 70 billion per year. There's much more to it than the land hospital. Would not all of us in this room want to be in the position of using them for something else? If we are not going to stress the importance of paying it down quickly and carefully, will we wait for it to harden a year? Will we, then, do so? A respectable president. I hope that we will not only accept public financial laws and therefore want to be like those countries that are best handled in public financial matters, I hope that we too will conduct ourselves accordingly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u7	A respectable president. Yes, countries that do the best they can, and countries that do the worst. I'm going to use this opportunity to call attention to a report published yesterday that shows the latter, that is the Social Research Report: Economics and Health Service, 2015. The report describes a truly serious situation that is relevant to the work being carried out in terms of financial laws and, in fact, any policy of well - being at this level. According to the report, almost 8,000 people refused medical care because of expenses in 2015. That same year, 25,000 adult Icelanders let go to the dentist for the same reason. In a European comparison, Iceland is listed on top of this report, but we must agree that it's a top list we don't want to be on. In this context, social status is important. The proportion of people who do not go to the dentist is twice as high in those on the lowest level of income compared to those on the average. And as for employment, the proportion of jobs, one out of four, is higher among those without a job market, such as microtaskers, students, and homework. The same applies to medical care, in which about 10% of women and 7% of men were unable to reach their doctors last year. The cost is at least 6% of them at the lowest level of revenue versus 1% of the population in the highest income groups. President. We are talking, not about people who have to give up some kind of response, but about people who cannot afford a vital service. This is how inequities and poverty are manifested in a wealthy society, and it shows that the expense of individual activities is far too high in welfare. A financial health - care system keeps people away from contact with a doctor. As lawgiver of the time set aside for planned planning, we can set simple goals: to reach these numbers at zero.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u8	A respectable president. I'm afraid there was a glorious opportunity yesterday to try a new business venture and a new view in Icelandic politics, where the views of more than two or three groups would be submitted to the decision-making and agreement of the government. So we are experiencing a special situation in Icelandic politics. The management of the right groups is under control, and neither the administrative body nor the minor part is in the council. In this political climate, the Generals wrestle with the Bjarni Benediktsson's budget and the government of the Independence Party and Exploitation. As noted in 1 Corinthians, the bill contains a number of disappointments. of the budget bill at the Senate Hall, as well as the response of the heads of state and community. Despite the improved status of the state funds, the largest and most important categories of Icelandic society, health, well - being, education, and other structures of infrastructure, such as transportation and law enforcement, remain in extremely tight financial resources. It is at the same time that there are great shoals in the air, and the continuation of the crown's strength is dangerous when it comes to the exports and travel services that have been our savior since collapse. But one of the most important classes not addressed to any acceptable extent in the work management budget is the climate and the follow-up of the United Nations Climate Convention signed in Paris in December and signed by the government of Iceland. The overall funding of projects under the climate programme was in the current year 250 million. K. Part of that money is to ensure financing for the three-year period. The status report on progress of the application programme submitted in October 2016 and shown by budgetary committees suggests that the budget of the project's growth of national electrical vehicles is deemed a total of 67 million. K. in three years. [[The president calls.]] This is one example of the inadequacy of climate issues in the budget. [[The president calls.]] The climate is the issue that we are obliged to deal with, and I wish and hope that the future government will handle these matters better than the government in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u9	Mr. President. It is my great privilege to address the Council of the United States. I'd like to discuss a case that I think is very important to face, it's public trust for the Generals. I believe that the main reasons for the lack of trust that the public has had at the council include: lack of transparency in government decision-making, as well as informalally, but it is recognized by the practice and conduct of the political representatives. There is no doubt that transparency can be enhanced by legalization and a change in government formality, but it is harder to change. This is because certain culture has developed here during the years and has become so deeply entrenched that it is taken for granted. Since people seem to be caught up in games and political doctors, which are filled with suspicion, no one is ready to take the first step and trust in others. How can we expect the public to trust us when we cannot even trust one another? The results of the last election show that the public wants to see different groups working at the council, and he wants to be reformed. We are here 63 senators chosen by the nation to work for these reforms, and I believe that if we act faithfully, fairly, with respect, and with the best interests of all the people of the country, we will succeed in increasing confidence in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u10	Mr. President. While I believe that we did all we could, I can't give in to the responsibility that comes with us, it failed our mission yesterday to form a government. It's not the end of the world, and there's still a chance of achieving government together in various ways, but in fact, while Iceland's politicians are stalling progress with details, there are many world problems that we can't solve. Last night there were terrible reports from Syria, such as the last five years, except at first they discussed the city of Homs rather than the Appio as yesterday. Since 2011, virtually every day has been the cause of death in Syria. I remember one day in July 2011 when a young man was describing it through a text message when tanks drove into the city of Homs, shooting here, and there at random. Then suddenly the descriptions stopped coming. The Western countries have pretended to help and get on high ground for doing so good things, for being so kind as to receive refugees, but not too many and only those who are convenient. While oil flows from the war zone, money flows in, money flows back, and weapons replace them. I have personally come to a study of $1.1 million weapons selling into Syria during wartime. It is not some creation that has been made on the side of the Western government to prevent or stop this war. The Western powers' shame is absolute. But no one's gonna think about it. I'm not saying that the government of Iceland is in the power of solving this problem, but it's absolutely clear that Iceland can be able to promote and promote world peace when we can't even resolve minor differences at home. So that's for humanity all I weep for today's impotence. [[The president calls.]] Iceland's power is a lot, and responsibility remains.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u11	V.E.G. President. We will be talked about health and transportation during the discussion on the budget, but in my brief talk today, I would like to talk about education. The education system is on our way to life, so we must cherish it better than we have done in the past few years. Good education is our key to the future and, in fact, our own gold. We say this almost daily to our children, encourage them to do better at school, regularly conduct a lecture on the value of education, that it was important to complete some study to have better prospects for a job market. At the same time, we can't allow our shoes to dribble and teachers to flee because of their lascivious dressers. We must show by our actions that a good education is important to all of us. Economically, a good level of education is important, and it even has a critical perspective on our competitive attitude at international markets. How badly our basic - school children come from measurements is a concern. They are reduced from their peers in controlled countries. However, I would like to use this opportunity to wish for the basic schools of Smokenestown especially to congratulate you with much progress in a consistent test. The fine results can be attributed to the concerted efforts of homes and schools in Smokeytown, so good things are also happening in the school system. But good schools do not come into existence without good teachers. A basic - school teacher is also in a difficult place, not wondering where it will end. In this context, we need to discuss the division between the state and the community. We cannot move large and expensive lawsuits to rural communities, such as basic schools and disabled issues, without reevaluating income exchange at the same time. That's where we haven't done our job. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u12	V.E.G. President. Most of us, if not all, want to improve transportation, and in many areas there is a great need for improvement, whether on the road or anywhere else. In the district of my work, there has been a great call for improved road transport on the West. Most people, if not all members of the district council, have stuck together in the struggle to respond to this plea. Now, at last, significant improvements in Western transport are being realized, but there is a great call for improved transport in the whole country and I can understand that. In this brief talk, I would like to discuss a section that is not often in the discussion - the road through Kjalarnes. It is necessary to ensure that important improvements in Kjalarnes are started no later than 2018, but they are expected to be carried out in a transport program at the highest level. The Minister of the Interior Church proposed to the General Assembly and was approved a few weeks ago. Every day, some 6 thousand cars pass through Kjalarnes. Much of the people who travel through the Kjalarnes are people who go to and from work and live in rural areas on the north side of the tunnel. I and many of these individuals are deeply concerned about the situation and the safety of those who travel that way. Now it's as if very deep channels have come along. During a great wintertime of winter and autumn, these waters are very lipy. Those who go on the road in such weather will most likely have to drive out in a roadside to keep their car under control. On too much of the road, there is no meaning, and the path is very dark. Sights can be difficult, and they often suffer accidents on the road weights that are there every day. I would like to take advantage of this brief opportunity here at the council and remind myself of the importance of this, even though I fully realize that there is a great need in many places.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u13	Mr. President. During my session, I signed my commitment to the Constitution. Therefore, it is not out of the way that my first address at the Council served to protect the important rights there. Here I direct, by permission of the President, to 65th paragraph. The constitution that says: "Let everyone be equal under law." I bring this article to the attention of the council because not everyone is equal to the law in Iceland and so must be changed. I refer to a law of law, which contains various principles as discrimination on the basis of disability. Consider the 19th chapter of this article. The law allowing the separation of a so - called forced individual on one basis that he is, with the permission of a president, a serious mental illness, or a significant possibility that he or she may be, in order to equalize a serious mental illness. Since there is no other legal requirement for such a loss of freedom, I have to agree with the repeated error of the European Commission on defenses against torture, which have been identified as a legal discrimination against people with psychiatric illness. Another serious example of such discrimination is found in the law on abortion that enables a legal attorney to force her into an abortion. Forced abortion has been defined as a form of torture by the UN special ambassador to torture. Mr. President. These laws are illegal. They do not pass the Constitution or the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment. I'm just asking. All members of the council, helping me get their changes on my first chance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u14	A respectable president. First, I'd like to welcome new members of the council. I can sense that it follows them fresh winds, like in the Garden. I look forward to working with you. I've been watching you, and even though I don't have much professional experience, I feel that you're in the same position that I am in over three years ago, and we all feel our responsibility when we're in the General Assembly. I know you're going to do some good, and I'm really looking forward to the teamwork. We have a great responsibility, including ours. To form a functioning government here. During the past few weeks, members and ministers, presidents of the clans, have struggled to form a government. I'm sorry, but I haven't done it yet. I think all of us need to put ourselves in line for the fact that now we need to come to a position of government and to show the nation that we are living up to our responsibility to form a functioning government. That's our primary duty at this time. There are unprecedented times at the council, the budget is going on, and we feel that despite a good beat here in the hall, it's not what it's supposed to be. If we don't use this short time for Christmas to complete the formation of the government, I think we'll be in business for the spring. It's not necessarily the lazy option, but it's obvious today that if we don't get together, it'll be the most likely result.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u15	Mr. President. Naturally, many people are upset. The members of the Parliament talked about the political situation in Iceland these days, and it is important that we discuss it. As has been said many times, the situation is complex. Despite what is happening to us in the land, however, the earth continues to turn, and unfortunately the terrible news of this hour comes from Akpho, Syria. The United Nations and the Red Cross have been praying in these last few hours that general citizens will be spared in the war conditions that exist in that area but the opposite. Bombs are being rained with greater force than ever before in massive air attacks. The United Nations has confirmed that mass murder in civilians took place in the city. This is a terrible thing to watch. But there are a lot of things Iceland can do. In fact, there are things we could do at the Council. Of course, the simplest and symbolic thing would be to condemn that repugnant. Another thing we can do, and I think we should always do, is speak for peaceful solutions, and for combating equipment, always, everywhere. And then, of course, what we must do now in the terrible things that are happening, to shoulder our responsibility in the society of the nations, and to help those who are to suffer, to help those who survive this battle and to give them refuge in our peaceful country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u16	A respectable president. I think it's a good idea. Councilmen come up here and call attention to the calamities of Syria. I wholeheartedly agree that we should do what we can to reach out there and have discussed it before in this regard. However, in my second speech, I want to say that I feel that this council was a good start, and I think that the discussion, both in the committee I am serving as well as in the Senate Hall, has been perplexity and good. I think it would be a good opportunity for us to keep doing so in the few days that we have to complete something very important. We know that we have a narrow cut... cut. [[scored]] Thank you. This is how cooperation is good. An assembly, a respected president, even a surrie. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir has started helping the people who are standing here, and this has not happened often at the time we have worked together.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u17	No, but...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u18	I can't believe that last statement is what it is. The senator's right. I think it'll be this way until Christmas. People talk a lot about government development in terms of the case, we haven't finished creating a government yet. But the big thing now is that we are being pressured by senators to work together in this situation. It is a short time and quite clear that a new government, no matter who it will be, will put the big lines on the budget and establish a new government budget. Then I'll give myself to work on the law and in the spirit of the law that we agreed to together in the last term. However, we need to work fast and, of course, adjust what we can do at that short time. But I just want to say right now, I think it's going to be a good start, and I hope it stays.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u19	A respectable president. I want to discuss the President's conference board. I have to say, I was surprised to learn that the first part of today's program was the job of the council. It was certainly good and pleasant to hear the virgin talks that have been here for years. Councilmen. But it was my understanding and other council groups, I hear that because of the circumstances that existed today - that we had some pressing issues for discussion and wanted to make good use of the time - we did not intend to join this team and other teams that we members of the council have been able to apply to us here but rather work on the existing issues. I was surprised, as well as other council presidents, that the president had made changes here without saying anything. I heard, however, when I began to inquire that the prime committee had had some news of this. I also make a comment to another member of the President's conference board, but it's that the budget is to be arranged for a meeting during this meeting today, which I've never heard before.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u20	For this reason the president would like to say that at a meeting with the presidents of a recent assembly, it was discussed whether the work should soon be completed and that new members might be interested in using that part of the program to initiate a hearing at the council. However, it was decided not to do so last week, but it would be the first time this week at a meeting. Something has been flushed or the result has not been clear enough if there has been a misunderstanding. The president will then ask for respect. But it was my understanding after this meeting that we would agree that these parts of the program would be included when meetings were held this week. Regarding a planned meeting on a budget board arranged yesterday for work there before it was fully established whether there would be a meeting today, this has often been at the people's discretion at the council's operations at the end of Congress that if no member of the committee makes objections, they will not be made to comment that committee meetings are able to overlap at meetings. It is based on the fact that everyone agrees on this. Once someone opposes it, it is not done. So if I am to be viewed as opposed, then, of course, there will be no meeting at the same time with a fundraiser.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u21	V.E.G. President. I'll take notes to the President's conference board. I'd like to say, though, that I've been talking about how well we're making our time, and we've been doing more production than we've been doing so, so I'm not going to stand in the way of this meeting in a budget board. I'd like to say, though, and I'd like to book it that it was only natural for me to have been discussed clearly before and as far as the other point was concerned, I wasn't the only senator to surprise it. I wish for president to succeed in making this clearer in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u22	The president should try to check the subject's clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u23	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the law on the Penitentiary Fund of the People of the State. The bill is that the main policy is based on an agreement made between the General Association of Public Workers and the Economic Ministers for the State and the Union of Iceland. The bill was written at the Ministry of Economics and Economics and was previously transferred to the 145th legislature. The League of Colleges, BSRB and Iceland's Teacher Association made these comments to the bill for its therapy and did not consider it to reflect the agreement made in September 2016 sufficiently. Conversations have been between parties for a possible solution, hoping that a joint result would be obtained by the end of November. but that hope failed. Despite the lack of results from parties on all issues, the bill is now submitted. The bill has made some changes since its arrival in the Council of 145th. The changes match the views of government officials who were treated earlier by the bill. In addition, technical adjustments have been made to certain aspects of the bill. The main changes from the previous bill are: 1st The government's contribution to the pension fund is raised to match the estimated insurance criteria by the end of 2016. The agreement had concluded that the end of 2015 would be per year, but this situation has been changed. 2. The government fund pays a contribution to the A Company to balance the situation in the department. 3. The wealth guarantees the unchanged rights of bio-employees and treasurers who are 60 years old for the implementation of new approved ones. 4. In addition to the bill, there is a new article dealing with changes in the laws on the insurance policy of pension and pension funds, No. 129/1997. This puts it into question the decision to increase the cost of pensions in a public labour market, i.e. The RSR and the Bridges Department of A, however, the article includes the exception of the regulations for the composition of possessions. 5. Specific dates and reference periods are changed where the matter could not be resolved at the 145th legislature. A respectable president. A meeting period since September There is a new common pension system in which all employees enjoy comparable pension rights, whether in public or in a public labour market. The main points of the agreement are: Public and public labour markets will be consistent and balanced according to a specific book on this subject. Remuneration will be better allowed to move between public and public employment markets at any time without any significant impact on the processing of pension rights. In other words, this leads to an equation that by being comparable, rights are no longer different from rights that have often been prevented from moving between public and public markets. Official employees in the Pension Funds will have comparable rights, and they now have 120 billion dollars. The government's contribution to the unfundable future commitments for them. The welfare system of public employees will be fully funded and the system will be self-sustained. The origin of this agreement can be attributed to discussions between the labour market partners on the need to establish a uniform pension system for the entire population. One of the reasons to achieve such harmony is to bring the pension rights of public employees to the usual labour market. With discussions on the altered order of the Department of Pension of Public Personnel, a staff on the scene for the MSR set in March 2011 are represented by the joint representatives of public employees and representatives of the European Union and Economic and Economic Ministers. The bill suggests that the Code on A Division will be reassigned to the main policy to be suspended at the end of May 2017 and that the department will be removed from June 1, 2017, on the basis of law No. 129/1997, of the related insurance rights and the work of pension funds, and of the approved ones. This changes to the fixed rights of a bank member based on a wide range of laws, as is now being done. At that time, the management of the fund is expected to suggest changes in the approved fund, where a new right system will be installed, in view of fixed benefits, and other factors of importance will be discussed in order to form a secondary and investment policy. The bill expects the government fund to pay a donation, called pensions, i.e. the differences between the rights of a cashier according to the rights of a 65-year pension period and the rights of a donor according to age-related rights work and a 67-year-old pension policy, and place funds in special precautions. According to agreement between the state and rural society, it is in common that in view of the financial status of the State Fund and the local community, it is in the interest of established financial goals that the State budget covers about 23.6 billion dollars. A commitment that the rurals would have made, by the way, due to financial contributions to the A Company. At the same time, it is common to understand that in the next business ventures in financial relations, including government and rural society. Because of the influence of law-changes, the support of the State to rural areas that take over commitments will be taken into account. Still, the rural communities will be costing the A House Bridge, adding a considerable amount to the pure debt of the rural society. It has long been aimed at creating one labour market in Iceland, but one part of it is to coordinate the pension rights of public employees and workers in a general labour market, both to facilitate comparison between the interest groups and to ensure that employees and those who are employed or operating independently can move to a labour market, such as I have previously been in, and between pensions at any time during their working years without any significant impact on their rights. The general market has already adopted age - related work, but the European Union of Iceland and the Employment Organization made an agreement in December 2004 to set up age - related rights work in funds on their contracts. She was placed in funds with certain adjustments. Thus, in general, funds companies who paid for the change generally held the right to equal rights to the limit of the work end and the cost of living beyond that maximum are counted for rights according to the general age-based rules. In this regard it is proper to consider that the criteria set out in the sentence of law No. In reviewing insurance benefits, 1/1997 has not been able to walk. Thus, at the end of 2015, the insurance status of the A Company was negative at over 57 billion dollars, i.e. about 8.8% of the total debt of the fund. Moreover, that situation calls for changes. For the funds to be balanced, payoffs would have to be raised from 11.5% to 15.1% in total to 19.1%. In the present system, rights will accumulate on equal rights. Such practices lead to a dollar paid for by an employee, e.g. 66 years provides as much right as an employee who has, for example, an employee. 20 years of age, despite the fact that the younger one will collect fruit for 47 years and the older one for only one year. This leads, in effect, to downplay the rights of older generations according to the current system. As the situation is now, it is impossible that Ward A can be sustainable while the department has equal rights development because of the dating of our financial institutions. Age - related rights management corrects this indiscriminately, since the system assumes that pay is due according to the time it spends in the fund. This results in the removal of the pension fund regardless of the dating of a bank partner. In recent years most of the online pension funds have corrected this discrepancies and it is urgent that the same route will be taken to balance the A department. So the bill suggests that the A Company legislation will basically be removed, and together with the approval of the fund will be changed, stipulated that it resides in the age-related legal year and the 67-year pension period. As a result, age - related rights practices are being established in the Icelandic Pension Department. The bill includes the fundamental changes in the order of pensions to the majority of public employees as I have tore. The quality of a cohesion in the LS and Bridge departments will be age-dependent, but the co-ordinated change in the future debt of LS and Bridge will be fully funded by public paypayers, as well as the pensioning age will be increased from 65 years to 67. These changes are consistent with what is commonly used in the public market. In order to ensure the rights of your existing trust partner, remuneration will be paid to the legal department and will ensure that this change will not be done at the expense of your creditors. In addition, the state funds are expected to contribute to the A Company to bring the situation into balance. The changes ensure that the fund becomes sustainable, so there is uncertainty about the future debt of state funds to the funds as well as destruction by these measures. Here it is to be noted that in the past year, the general market took steps this way, as did ASI and the activities of the economy, signed a contract where employers'pension initiative is increased to the level of contracts in the public labour market and that adaptation will be fully implemented in the mid- 2018. In other words, it is working to see that in the Icelandic labour market the pension rights are equal, and on this market it is assumed that the whole labour market will be 76%. Overall, the change will have a positive effect on the workforce as it increases the choice and flexibility of workers. Workforces, as I've made it, can adapt to the changing market demand and the long - term effects of the average pension rights are likely to have a positive effect on the entire population. It doesn't matter much in the context of destroying uncertainty about the future debt of state funds, and here we are making the business of the public pension fund sustainable. It's all a big deal, but we can't overlook the fact that we're still in the B ward, but we're already taking steps to deal with the cumulative problems there is. The next year's budget assumes 5 billion dollars into the B department to start working out the cumulative status there. In view of the fact that following these measures and related plans, Iceland will be one of the few countries in the world with a wealth of money and a coordinated pension system for the entire population. Such places include a tremendous amount of lasting strength for both the public and the economic system as a whole. For the B Company, it can be said that it is extremely important that we take a step about dealing with the problem. As I've come in, we're starting deposit next year, and we've been making the budgets for the past few years calling attention to the aggressor that's there. It is clear that around the year 2026, the purchased Penitentiary of the State's Penitentiary versus commitments will be left on its own, and the state's budget will be unchanged, if nothing is done in the meantime, which we're actually going to do as the budget shows for the next year, the state's budget would have to be paid out at the end of the budget. In advance, this commitment reduces the impact or extent that falls on the Kingdom in the future and spreads out over a much longer period of time. This is a clear and reasonable arrangement that we should agree to support, or we are simply pushing the problem even more ahead of us. I made it clear that Iceland is one of the very few countries in the world that, by the changes we are here, will have an active and fully funded pension system for public employees. This is one of the biggest interests of future generations that we are involved in, and the context of parts is really remarkable how little is seen in the face of such factors as this when evaluating the status of individual countries. I mention, for example, that an assessment firm completely ignores the cumulative commitments of state funds when it comes to evaluating their ability to live up to their commitments in the future. In general, the menu companies look forward only to commitments that fall into place over the next five years, which includes the accumulated Penitentiary of Pension commitments entirely apart from the ratings of the companies. There is something else that suggests that the attitudes are only changing in this regard, that these cumulative problems are getting closer to the surface, and that is becoming part of a discussion of public financial status in individual countries. In many parts of Europe, it is based on a flow system, that is, a promise of the day and the day that the governments will have a pension rights at some point in the future that the taxpayers of that time will still have to care for. It is not impressive when you see the same time when you see the demographic development that takes place in those countries. It is good to keep this large context of the parts for the official financial position in Iceland in mind regarding this matter, but we can also put it in another context. I'm going to do that, and just mention that we've been working on a longer period of stability, lower inflation and lower interest in Iceland. The annual growth rate for the households is about 100 billion per year, with an average interest rate of about 5%. This means that every percent of the population we manage to reduce the growth rate of the households would relieve them of about Twenty billion interest per year. All I'm saying is that this case here, the equal pension rights, is one of the steps, one of the guards, on the way to a new labour market model in Iceland, which is absolutely necessary to reach and continue to work on in order to bring us closer to the workforce proposed in the North countries. There, in general and public markets, it has been managed to provide this way for the development of collective and public agreements that much less have been tested in terms of the introduction of extreme elevations beyond the amount of time available in the economy, and as a result, less frequently have been observed there to make collective agreements that directly result in the growth of inflation pressure and subsequent growth velocity. I think there's ample reason to put this matter into this context, so that the equation of pension rights is one of the nuclear issues of the SALEK Convention along with what I've only been on here, which is payday insurance or otherwise the equation goes colder. The pay bill is a requirement for the public market, which is in many ways understandable to promote it, since the pay scale has generally become the main focus of the public market while the collective agreements have been the basis for the development of pay for public employees. This alone has led to tensions, which have often been broken into brutal market conflicts. It is something that we must all want to change, to prevent such things in the future, and the case we are here is one of the cornerstones of that work. There is good reason to thank for an excellent cooperation that has been achieved by an organization on these issues. It is not a simple matter, it is understandable that one would want to have an opinion of what should come first, an equation of dress and pay between markets, or an equation of pension rights. This work involves thinking that the right thing to do is to balance your pension rights first, and this is a prerequisite for working on the rest of the process. As I went along to discuss the equations of the jaws, equal pay, in a special account, and that is one of the factors in the work being done, that government employees will in the future be able to enjoy pay insurance. I am not going to review all the factors that are important in this greater workforce in my speech. I'm just going to reiterate the importance of that matter, especially in the present circumstances. We know that there are still tensions in the labour market, and I'm going to make it enough to say that we can't find a conclusion in this case, but there's no small amount of work to wind up from that position to continue working on the equal pensions in Iceland. In a sense, we stand for a very delicate breakthrough with these matters on the program, and I hope that we will succeed in this drive, although it has not been successful a few weeks ago, to find a common conclusion in the case that can be achieved by the greatest agreement. I'll admit that I don't have much hope that every member of the country that's part of the whole organization will agree with the results obtained by this bill. It's not unnatural, as I've been tracking here. Some simply believe that first the pay and the terms in other respects have to be balanced and that the equations of pension rights can be viewed. But the agreement we made with the entire organization is that we go to the equal rights of the pensioner, while it's important that we listen to views, and that's what we've been doing. Many of the points that have entered this bill that were not in the bill when it was last submitted are changes that we had already begun a conversation even though time and circumstances might not be playing with us in an election to complete it at that time. Clearly, the changes that follow the bill will call for a considerably higher government contribution to support the equation. This is because of what I traced earlier that the pension fund is now being viewed at the end of 2016, not at the end of 2015. Fruitism is seen in the current year, and it has not been as good as it has been during the past two, three years. Similarly, defending the status of those who are in a pension age or approaching a pension age is having a bearing on the 60 - year criteria that were not in the bill in the previous picture. In that way, when discussing the lack of the situation's status as opposed to the change, the background responsibility remains in effect for 60 years and older, it can be said that the situation in which the issue was not equal to that of changing. All of this means that in budgets that I expect to appear here tomorrow, there will amount to tens of billions of dollars on the contribution that must come from the state for this matter to work. In fact, there are nearly 30 billion who are added to the 80 billion who have been previously expected to meet the need for this change and to be reinvented in the current year. We've also established a relationship with our rural society that nothing has changed about the financial abilities of the rural community to take on extra burdens, it just remains on the importance of the State helping and helping out with the communities to complete this matter. On the other hand, there are many things that are going with us today. That's how I'm going to let myself say that we're in many ways on our own opportunities to complete a case of this magnitude in 2016. The overall situation in the state's market is that we can, without putting the overall resources in a different context, reimburse us by this magnitude. However, it is very important to remember that this is not a matter of accepting a commitment that would otherwise have taken place in the future. It is actually making commitments for promises already published, i.e. Their comment. I expect the work that has already been done at the council can be of some use. For the sake of financial and economic services, any assistance is offered to go further into the sewing of the case during conquistancy. We have even. for information a brief presentation I think may be made public on the Department's Web site, and I also expect that during Congress therapy they will be listening to the opinions of those of particular concern. I would suggest, sir, a respectable president, that the case be referred to a second. and to the Economic and Business Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u24	Mr. President. I want to pray to the highest. Ministers to respond only to the criticism that has been given on the bill by members of the public staff organisation where it is claimed that for the sake of pension rights, it is equally important that those at their time, 1997, choose the A-section of the Penitentiary of the State are allowed to maintain the rights of the state. This observation has been made, e.g. of Iceland's School of Teachers' Association and believe that this is really a prerequisite for those who chose their own A department. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to respond to this criticism. In view of the fact that the Teacher Union has issued a declaration today, where the relationship suggests a different approach, i.e. shutting down the SIRR and bridges for new sources of funds, and thus I'd like to pray to the highest level too. Minister to explain it to us. Was that the route discussed in a conversation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs with this entire organization?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u25	A respectable president. I know the idea that those who chose the A department become particularly involved, but I don't see in themselves that there's any reason to go beyond the bill, i.e. that all those in the A League are equal when it comes to this, regardless of when and if at any point they were able to stay in the B department possibly. It is simply over 60 years, and there is a definite equality in the fact that all things are going on. The other thing, about shutting down the department and thus maintaining the system as it is, putting it in some isolation and allowing it to continue a independent life, is in itself, as it seems, a decision to equal the pension rights to over a decade. I think it's perfectly obvious that it's not the equal pension rights the public market is calling for. These include, if we move that way, we can totally forget that after the change, you start working on your pay, your pay bill, and all the other items that are going to follow in your overall change. I can only see the decision to close up the department and start the C-continental tour, or to create a new department for those who come in as government employees, would be decided that we should accept that it just happened in the next few decades. This is quite different from what the conversation has been going on since its beginning in 2011.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u26	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'd like to find out about what he mentioned at the end of his reply, which is about the exact amount of remuneration that is expected to take place for the next six to ten years: how is it possible? A minister sees that it will be accomplished? In fact, it is not easy to recognize the pay of the general market and the public market, and it varies between countries and rural groups. There have been disagreements about how to actually calculate or assess this amount of pay. How's the top? A minister realizes that this conversation can take place so that it will be effective? Because it is evident that some of the leaders of the public sector are most concerned about this, i.e. that the pension rights will be balanced, but the balance of the feast does not follow, pointing to the fact that there is both a complex project and that there is not one agreement on how to attack it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of his vision of this assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u27	A respectable president. I'm afraid we can't figure out exactly how we're going to settle the pay or the terms otherwise. Remuneration is a phenomenon known elsewhere. I am optimistic about how we can develop an arrangement that is similar to what has been introduced elsewhere, so that part of the matter might be easier to process. Then there is the other: Can men agree on the basics of wages? I think that's what we're talking about. Among other things, a senator would point out that it is not just years long but perhaps decades of discussion about what to put into that equation. For example, should the law on government employees, rights, and duties be placed into that equation? Or are you just looking at your salary, your total salary? What about other rights? Simply put, we have to bring out our best people to help with this special work that must take place in order for us to succeed in this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u28	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the history of the case. It's like we know a very important thing. We tried a lot for the election to deal with it. Of course, it was late, and time may not have been enough, but it is important that people of all categories really understood that it was, and it is important that we accept this assignment. We'd have to do this now in December, by year, because we have a unique opportunity to do so. It's quite complicated, and I'm not going to pretend that I fully understand it, so I'm going to come up and ask the highest. Minister. He says that not all of the factors were reached. What, then, are the details that remain? So that's what happened. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir previously said about the criticism of the National Teacher Association, which is somewhat incompatible with what was presented in the history of a minister, the Teacher Union saying that the rights of the existing funds and payments are being carried out by the changes to come. Can a minister explain these criticisms and how he sees them? We know that the fund is not sustainable. We need to make some changes. We need to balance the position and flow between the public labour market and the private market, and we need this to be done so that it is not as it has been, and it has been observed before, that the younger generations will bring down the older ones' rights. However, there has also been another criticism that those who are not in the fund now or who are not yet working on their rights are losing some rights or not getting the rights they now have. [[The president calls.]] The highest. A minister sheds light on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u29	A respectable president. In my background, I reasoned that we were not taking on this matter of cost that the State had not yet taken with the promise of future pension rights. We're only moving in in time. And I can say similarly: The Kingdom is not trying to get away from the case in such a way that it will break free from any commitments it has already made in the future. In other words, it is not taking on new obligations, nor do I believe that the State is getting rid of any commitments. However, there is a change in systems and a change of system in the future may have an effect, depending on how you play. It's an example. A senator may be calling for: What if at some future time, the rights of those who have their rights in the A League must be impaired after 20 to 30 years? What if something comes up so that it has to impair rights? How would it have been in the system today? Today it would have been in such a way that the State would have taken steps to repair the damage it would have done because the State is responsible for today. That's why we're changing. In other words, it may be possible to view this as a risk to some in the future, but it turns out that if the quality of the source is successful, the rights of the funds will not be improved today but they will improve at the change, if well, just as in the general market. So it's both given and accepted. It's not unusual for each one of us to see it with his own eyes. In my mind, there has to be a tremendous value to a creditor in the A League that the state can at this breakthrough fully make up for the future of the rights that are in there. It's a huge deal, and it's the privilege of Icelandic pensioners in the LSR, the A, if this change is going on, that no one in Europe is enjoying today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u30	A respectable president. I appreciate those answers because it's a little confusing. What the minister's case says is that these changes are not made at the expense of those who have earned rights, contrary to what is presented in a letter to the council that we received today from KI, to the rights of our existing funds and deposit. But as I understand the Minister, this has to do with potential risks and/or benefits transferred from the state to the funds. This is just the beginning of this conversation, it's 1st. I hope we're in trouble. The Economic and Business Committee is getting these companies to meet us as soon as possible. They've been called in and we'll get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to say that these changes are not being carried on by the government alone but are being carried out on this case because this is part of an agreement between the public and the general market. The Kingdom is simply trying to contribute in order to achieve the objective of the equivalent of pension rights. Of course, there are some who are not interested in the equations of pension rights and who are not in any such agreement. They will maintain a view, and in a way, it is an observation issue whether one prefers to have a changed arrangement or this old one. It's just a normal part of the discussion. We face the challenge of continuing to support the workforce and the agreement. Now we are going to face up to this vital change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u32	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. The financial minister of Bjarni son of Benediktsson for his history and sincerity, exemplary in mentioning that he is in no way certain that everyone will agree with this. I think it's a good example to put it this way. There are factors in a matter of the highest degree. The secretary of finance for my wife, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, who raises questions with me, e.g. the talk that much of the public opinion of the workers was met. I'd like to ask the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson's secretary of finance to see if he does not recognize that the views of public employees were they in the agreement signed by stavar in its time have assumed that the pensioners in the A department would be protected from potential fluctuations due to poor yields and would not be restricted. It hasn't necessarily been bound to 60 years, as it certainly shows in a recent bill but was, as I understand it, not in the bill being submitted in the fall. The contract that was signed says, by permission of the President: ...in terms of insurance status and change of rights development, the value of the existing funds partners will be specialised. There is no mention of growth if good progress or possible impairment is made in case of failure. No one is referring to the future to taking any risk with impairment or not, either to heal people or not. Simply put, the rights of the present funds are guaranteed. I can't find a place in the agreement to put some restrictions on it. Knows the most. Is this the opinion of the public employees of Bjarni Benediktsson? Does he think that he came to meet them?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u33	A respectable president. Right away. A senator recites from the agreement points out that people today have the right to do the same rights work, even if they are up to a pension age and as well as the right to go to the age of 65. During the change that will be promised by the State to ensure discrimination on this matter. This is done by means of tens of millions of dollars in the fund. This will help to calculate the situation for each and one pensioner compared to an earlier system and the difference will always be added with additional rights when appropriate. In other words, it is purchased with the rights of these people, bought the right to equal pension work on the entire line, and it is purchased the right to enter a pension age earlier. Regarding the way we have responded to the criticism shown on the previous bill, I have to refer to the 60-year rule. Yes, I think it's very important because, of course, people had something to say when they said: "The pensioner doesn't get anything because his rights have changed about his pension age or because he doesn't earn his rights anymore. All he really sees is that behind responsibility disappears. It's fixed. They say, "This also applies to those who are about to go into pensions. ' That's why we're down to 60 years. Those under it will always have years in front of them in rightish work, which can help to meet short - term fluctuations in the product of the funds. I don't think it fair to belittle the importance that in the future, people will benefit if their crops are positive in improved pensions because they work both ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u34	A respectable president. No one's trying to make one thing or anything down here. It is just asking if a donation of bill and what was previously submitted in the autumn is in line with the agreement that was signed. There was no uncertainty that I could get the most. I agree with the highest. The secretary of the Bjarni Benediktsson's regard for this matter is extremely important, and for this very reason, the Allied Council is in the position of agreeing on its run, that it cannot be managed better. As I found out in my first speech, there was enough blowing on the horns when the agreement was introduced. However, there was a bill that the parties of the agreement did not agree with. All of a sudden, instead of a businessmate, they started talking about active creditors. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether he or she feels that there is a lack of future growth or impairment, the minister of finance is directly out of the picture: Does he believe that the rules he applies are in accordance with the agreement he and the leaders of the employee movement written in their own time? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u35	A respectable president. I believe the bill is definitely in accordance with the agreement and, as I went along, better because the agreement was based on the end of 2015 than it is now that we are looking at the end of 2016. In order to simplify this matter only then, we are actually talking about some who are not interested in the development of a system modification; they want to hold back the responsibility rather than the next decades, even for the one who first became public workers yesterday, that he can get out of work; for 30◯40 years, he enjoys the back of responsibility and the system we've been living in; and that this system change applies only to the future. This is clear from the fact that it was never the content of the agreement that has taken place in the past few years, the total of what has taken place in recent years. The conversation has all worked out that we're equalizing the pension rights now, not after 50 years, not 25 or 30 years, but that we're working on the equation right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u36	A respectable president. Here is one of the most important issues involved in the development of work in a labour market for better management, and hopefully we have more to do with what we know in other parts of the North. There may be two things I'm concerned about, and I'd like to ask the highest. A minister for a little more details when it comes to the bill. On the other hand, I ask what is involved in the agreement itself, to the dresser equation, i.e. the balance between the public labour market and the general market. Now the so - called dolphin race between markets is a well - known problem, and it is controversial whether there is any difference in salary between markets. How do people intend to measure it, and how should this be handled without any independent source of dolphins running the job market? In this context, it would be good to remember that at least the last time I checked, public employees were higher than employees in a general labour market in all income levels, according to the Habitat Assessment. The question is, Which direction is the amount of pay? At least it doesn't happen by itself. Second, in view of the importance of this matter in terms of the equality of the dierent rights and the barriers established by different pensional systems, it is important that we succeed in this, since this only failed when the law was last changed in 1997. There's a law where I'm worried about, 7th paragraph. the bill facing the X. provisional rule, i.e. how to deal with it if the so - called pension bonus fails, as it is said, i.e. if the treasure cannot fulfill the role it is designed to fulfill. Right now, the main purpose of the state's funds is to eliminate the State responsibility, so I ask: Is this the case with hidden State responsibilities?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u37	A respectable president. With the equation, all I have to do is refer to the accounting made. This in itself is not designed exactly how it will be done, but there is evidence that a person will work together to define a measure of pay, if he is present. If it's right next to him. A senator that there's no pay difference, I think that's just gonna be the result. But I think he knows it even better than I do. A senator, that this, of course, is an eternity of debate, and I turned aside from the moment before, it is even debated as to what to take into it. As for the pension bonus, it was emphasized by the government and rural society in this case that if they were to test the financial reserve for pension, they would have to respond to any reaction. The agreement is that they promise to sit over it and evaluate why the reserve has been emptied, but in itself there is no reason to give in advance. What matters to me is this: We had been working on the idea that the reserve could also be available to fill the rights of a pensioner, those who went into a pension age, even as long as 60 years. That's what I think would have been a bad change. I think there's a chance, though, that we're going to isolate the reserve from the pension and let the back guarantee live for the rest. This should simplify the possible future development. We're not saving the reserve because we think it might never be tested, and then it just goes back to the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u38	President. Thank you very much. Minister. Of my first concern, this is exactly what a minister put quite well, endless debates in the labour market. I don't think this alleged amount of pay, that's what I'm afraid of, is that it will be the source of continued controversy and undermined the changing practices that are being tried to pick up a job market. That is why I fear a considerable bit of this book, but I hope that my fears will not come true. On the other hand, the very essence of the matter is that, on an equation of pension rights, the general funds are thus set up to restrict rights if demographic development or yield is not as expected and the funds are not bound by commitments. That's why I'm only wondering again: Is it true, then, that it doesn't apply fully to the A department by these changes, that even some additional progress, or even a rising bill in the future, may arise in order to meet the promise given there? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u39	A respectable president. It's a separate matter, i.e. The 60-year-old group, the older group that actually get here, changing the bill, behind responsibility, and then the reserve that is intended only to respond if the criteria for pension have been broken. In particular, the value of the equal rights process and the pension period is being looked to. They've tried to make that assessment. Governments and rural partners did not trust 100% of the estimates, and they feared that in the future there could be a possibility that some assumptions would be broken and needed, because of the loss of responsibility, to be some kind of reserve. The reserves we offered to contribute, but we're just going to let it stand there to meet this potential failure. We assume that these funds just go back to the state fund not test that failure. We have faith in the calculations that lie behind us and that the reserve will not be tested.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u40	Mr. President. It's a big deal here, and we've been talking before. In itself, I'm not going to have many words about it. When we last discussed the matter, we did well. The bill has been modified for the better. However, I feel that it is important that a few things be held in place before starting the political treatment on the subject. The Economic and Business Committee. There is evidence that we have been allowed to observe this issue since an agreement was reached between the government and the overall workforce, but it must be said, as it is, that the understanding of the agreements is unmistakably different. This has been shown in the discussions that have been discussed in the talk at the highest. Ministers and protests, the fact that some organization and society claim that it is their understanding of the agreement that those in the A League should be allowed to continue to do that right, i.e. continue to stay in the A department until their career ends. It is also available to the government's viewpoint that in this way we will not achieve equal pensions unless it is much longer. However, it is unfortunate that understanding has not been shared. Maybe that's what makes this situation difficult. We observe that those who have sat at the table do not agree exactly on how to interpret the agreement, although no one has reported it. In the fall of this case, we found that we needed time to review it. This case could not be handled in a few days. In itself, the situation is no different today in view of the need to be concluded before the New Year's Eve. We do not have much time to complete it. It would have been preferable, as I suggested in the fall of a discussion with the council, that the matter could have been established in some process between councils, so that instead of our coming to it now and being in that position, as indicated in the report, we could have continued a conversation in the labour market and the government, but there was no wider agreement in that conversation. That certainly is shocking. It's suggested significant changes. Basically, I agree with the objective of the change, i.e. To equal the currency rights between the public market and the public market. I agree with the fundamental change that it's natural that pension rights don't depend on where you're working, and it shouldn't be up to you to determine if you're changing your job about what your pension rights are. I agree with that goal. I think that everyone in this room also saw the national importance of the situation, that we are looking for an increasing level of sustainable economic and economic sustainability to the pension system. Regarding the criticism that I have seen before, i.e. the lack of understanding in the agreement is important. The Economic and Business Committee. It is also important that we review the viewpoints that have been observed among individual members of the community. In fact, I believe that this matter needs special consideration. I quote them to the professions who have been fighting for as part of their ideal reduction in pensional age because of the physical hardships of the professions. This is a number of BSRB Member States, i.e. Officers, firemen and medical or medical agents, customs guards and prison guards and Iceland's Hospital, as far as I can remember. These communities have long fought for the reduction in pensional age from that argument. Of course, there is sound evidence for work that becomes more difficult as the working years pass, taking this into account. I wondered, and perhaps it shows in a report, I did not find it, whether it is normal to place the affairs of these groups into some particular opinion. I recommend that you do what you say. The Economic and Business Committee specifically considered whether to place such issues in particular. Now we know that there are classes, not only in the public but also in the public market, which are exactly the same evidence. This may require an overall review of how we look at a pension age. We've talked about how the pension age will be more flexible. But need not we bear in mind that as we grow older, jobs are a big mistake? In this regard, members of Parliament may be well beyond their age, but this may be true of those who, for example, are. ... inexports. Then I would like to mention what has also been presented in the brief discussions, which is the balance and the pay. It is not unusual for certain unions or organizations within the organization to present questions. It has already been noted in this discussion that the amount of pay is not even settled down. That's what happened at a meeting. The Economic and Business Committee this morning where we received a presentation on the Department of finance that the pay difference between the general market and the state is, for example, much smaller than any other government or rural group. They played into different educations, i.e. a common education by government personnel and, on the other hand, from local employees and then from public employees. It is difficult to compare pay alone between employers, other variables should also be considered. However, it was suggested that the pay amount could be expected so that the government would be below the general market on average about 5%, then there would be a greater difference between the general market and the local community. At these percentages all and on account measures, people have not been completely satisfied. V.E.G. A minister earlier said that it was important to call our best people into that job. Of course, in view of the many years that this conversation has been going on, since 2011, I would like to see that there were some defined work force on how we're going to measure the equation on the terms and salary, since we'd have even reached some ◯konsensus's or agreed on how this difference was and how to evaluate it. Of course, we need to compare comparable jobs with employers. You can't just spread averages, they tell so little story. Of course, you would have liked to see along with this bill that there was some kind of work on how we were going to do this, how we're going to make an equal move on the terms and salary. It is the uncertainty that raises questions in many of the people who have been sending in envelopes. I think it's like looking at the reviews given on this bill in the last round that it's like burning on the majority of the sources, worrying about how to live up to this equation. It would be most desirable if we were to understand it further. I'm not going to give a longer talk, but I think that a lot of what I said in my previous discussions at the last council actually involved it. But then I'd like to say that it's never good to be making fundamental changes in a short period of time. It is good, though, that there was time for a review of this matter in the past round of the council, but a new committee has now been selected, and the matter has not been discussed before. It is never convenient to make fundamental changes in pace. Especially when they are not completely satisfied. However, it is my position that we will pay for this matter as best possible and contribute to the work that has to be done there. But more importantly, if you'd wanted to see this concern, I've mentioned the pension age of a particular class, I've mentioned a working song around the pay and dress balance, you'd have wanted to see some bottom of that opinion so that we weren't doing it here and then after five years, when nothing has been accomplished to level the terms and the people still disagree on the difference between the general market and the public, nothing happened. Of course, you would want to have more confidence in how to deal with this issue before it is resolved, but perhaps it will be explained by the council. I'm going to let me hope for it and that we can handle these questions in the committee work, where we will discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u41	Madam President. Here is a bill on key rights to the workers of the state. The changes expected by the bill are a factor in equalizing the pension rights of civil servants and those working in the public market. Work on the rights will be in harmony with all Icelandic labour markets between ages and pensions. At the same time, the funds of the Penitentiary Fund of the State are cared for. All of this is an important step in promoting a better partnership with the workforce in these basic rights and is well applicable. This change allows people to move from job to job, regardless of whether the employer is a state, a rural society or a company. Thus, without sacrificing their important rights, there is a barrier to changing the field of activity. It also contributes to the normal flexibility and freedom of the individual to choose and change the field as a person thinks. The bill is also one of the important and essential steps on the way that a so-called SALEK meeting at a labour market will be realized. This means that all major workers in the labour market agree on pay information and the economic premiums of collective labour agreements. The same procedure is designed to promote better preparation and management of collective agreements. The experience of other Norwegian countries is especially considered in that respect. The aim of implementing SEK is to increase the level of money based on low inflation, low growth, and continuous effort. IN my mind, SKEEK is a vital key factor in reaching goals that are low in growth, in walking, and in gaining riches based on social value. With the same hurt, the bill is about the Council of Elders, which is also also involved in the release of the council here at the council. It is important that the decisions they make are based on the same principles as laws and within the framework of cooperation such as SALEK. All of this is linked together in the vital work of reviewing our country's money policy and the status of our currency. To attach the crown to another currency, e.g. with currency, as we have already spoken about, or simply recording another currency, such as euro, and in connection with Iceland's entry into the European Union? It's not a decade since collapse. That time and after the collapse, most people do not want to experience it again. There must not be predicted here that such a thing is in the water, and hopefully it will never be. However, much can be done to reduce the risk of another crash and, at the same time, greatly reduce the fluctuations that mark our work. The swings confuse all things and make it difficult for everyone eventually. A fine example of how the crown's success at this time makes exports difficult, such as fishing roads, not to mention the growth wand in the innovation sector. The premise that we can build a good society, increase a valuable creation, and find well - educated people in a suitable field is to master the economy and create a normal stability here. Madam President. Here above, I've covered a few things that are important in the years and years to come. The harmonisation of the pension rights, the SALKK convention, the board of dressers, money policies, currency and interest. All of this is the subject that the Parliament must discuss and focus on in broad context. All of these are bites in the same puzzle, and the picture will not be clear or stare unless all bits are found and the ratio will be in place. Now we have a unique chance to get these pieces, about the pension rights, to their place. I hope we can make it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u42	Madam President. I'm happy that this important matter has returned to the council and that the General now has the opportunity to review carefully the changes made on the bill; to determine if they are sufficient and to make the improvements that the General General feels the need to make. This is a matter that we have had for many years because it involves the coordination of pension rights on the public market and on the public market. Changes in the biofuel system since 1997, when the A department was established, have been successful in most of its success, but since there is no age-related recovery, a limp has developed in the A League that has already become significant and is increasing. With the change in the system from 1997, the old system, now the B division of the fund, and the B department is already up to about 500 billion dollars. It is extremely important that we have a sustainable pension system, which is based on processing and property in view of the changes in the population's age fixing, with the number of retirees and decreases in younger generations. This has been done since 2009. The search for solutions has been done which could lead to harmonization of the rights and end the A Company tilting. Money that we receive on the basis of contracts with demands enables us to handle the situation and put in funds to cross over. The result and successful solution are also important for rural society. Government workers are concerned that they are throwing aside rights to vague benefits. In the agreement on which the bill is based, public employees are expected to be involved in a pay run on a public market. I believe that it is better to improve the pay of public employees and to compete with the general market, thus making it easier for people to go between the public and the general markets of careers rather than to try to create a yellowing root that involves better pensions in the public market. It is also better to negotiate a solution and a reward for rights than to continue sliding on the pension fund, for in the end, the time will come when the state will face hundreds of billions of holes, or even more holes, it will simply grow above our heads. The rights that public employees have felt could prove empty because society simply does not live up to them. So I think that everything would be in order to follow this road and that the Allied will put forth effort in the processing of the bill. It is also important to create a better foundation for future debates and a better agreement between pay stores on the public market and the public market. Madam President. I want to reiterate and repeat that I hope that work on the bill will be good and that the result will be successful. Of course, it is one of the basic forms of long-term peace in the workplace, but it is also important for our credit account that we land the case before a New Year's Eve. The situation is, if we do this in 2016, we don't come out in the middle of nowhere, but if we take more time and let it fall past the year, we'll get minus in the money bill. We will also need to revise the financial laws that we have set up on public financial matters, not to allow it to affect our overall government. I hope, Madam President, that the Committee will bring in all stakeholders. We have been told that there was not enough consultation before the case came here again before the General Assembly and that the criticism presented when the case was presented at the previous stage still stands. It's important for the General to meet and what. The Economic and Business Committee will review this whole thing. I'm not gonna keep this for a while, but I just want to reiterate that this case is very important. This is important for the establishment of public employees, for their pension rights and for the labour market people who will then be able to move between systems without losing their rights or pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u43	Madam President. I'd like to start by pointing at that in comments to the c- team 7. The bill says, by permission of the President: ▪ Given planned measures and the same yields as has been and unchanged methods of assessing life likes are more likely to result in a positive result of the fund's status... I draw attention to the fact that here we are giving ourselves many unknown sizes and we use the same methods for the assessment of life. The lives of the nation and people of the world are growing, and we must take this into account. I think it's short - lived thinking that it's always just raising the pension age or increasing the punitive costs each time the population seems to be increasing its life expectancy. This bill is created around the current system. So my criticism is not exactly on the bill in itself but on the situation in which we are now, i.e. that we need to submit this bill. It tells us that the system may not work exactly. It's worth wondering if there's any other way to go in pensions. I'm right here that I'm not suggesting that there be some really big-growing changes in pensions before New Year's, it's just not time for that. But I believe that we should keep that in mind in the future and consider the permanent solution to the pensions in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u44	A respectable president. Like I only stepped into my opponent before a talk Benediktsson Bjarni highest. I agree that this is a very important matter. I want to reiterate what I came into them, and it's too bad that it's so late that we have to take care of the situation on some race to get it in by New Year's Eve. When the case was started in the fall, let's not forget that this case has a much longer history; this has been done, i.e. To equal pension rights, years if not decades so that when it was announced in the fall that a deal was reached, I'll say before my part that I was filled with joy and optimism. I thought it was a big phase that had taken in national language. Sadly, as an advanced government has overemphasized, this was reported by considerable trumpet blasts and brivings, and the success of the outcome was slightly exaggerated. In a sense, it was understandable, for as I came in, the matter is extremely important. That, however, was even more disappointing when the bill came to the top. In the fall, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, the minister of finance, had such a light in the council. It was the opinion of many of the employee movement that at the time of the agreement, the bill was out of harmony with the agreement that had been signed. Clearly, signing an agreement is not an acceptable practice but is a bill for something else. What was most critical of all was what I came in just earlier in my counterargument that in a bill about these matters, it was suddenly talking about active favours. That concept had not been identified in the agreement. It simply referred to a treasuremate. So here a minister had narrowed the definition of who should enjoy the protection of their rights for future changes. This was done on one side by the government's discontinuation. It's particularly unfortunate in such a big case, in a national language that has to be made at peace with as many people as possible, that it has been this way, especially in this case because it is based on trust. This is a large part of the employee's rights to give, give it after receiving 65 years of pension and delay it to 67 years of age for future raises. As mentioned earlier, this was not a permanent matter. There is no updated schedule on how that raise will be implemented, but this is based solely on mutual trust. So it is very important not to do anything that would undermine that trust, and quite serious, as soon as a few weeks later, to abandon that trust when a bill did not agree with the agreement. Since then, the bill has been employed even more and like the highest. To some extent, Bjarni Benediktsson's financial minister came to meet the viewpoint of public employees. However, it is not that public employees feel that the agreement they wrote under their time is perfectly reflected in this bill, or perhaps in the reverse, that the bill will be reflected in the agreement, because the situation is still that way, based on the bill, that the funds with A League's rights do not guarantee that their wages will not be affected in the future, i.e. Not everyone's corpsmates. The limit is now established that it will reach 60 years of age, which is better and better from the previous bill, not what was discussed in the agreement. It simply referred to all the funds, i.e. that they would be protected from possible harm. In order to accomplish this, a pension fund and a care fund were set aside to live up to the One who should compensate for different rights given to the new arrangement in relation to the current arrangement. This was related to equal practices in age - related changes, increases in pension age, and so forth. There seems to be some kind of misunderstanding at the highest level. The Director of Economic Affairs, Bjarni Benediktsson, said that public employees' rights in the A Department would not be affected but would put new employees into a new arrangement and there would be less rights. That is not what government employees signed in their time. What can happen? In a year's time, the sea may have very poor yields. To find such a situation, a person does not have to look far back in his life. On the general market, this results in a simply impairment of rights. But as the arrangement is now with government employees, the tax is raised to meet them. This is one of the things the general labour market has been critical of when it comes to these different rights. The bill was to be taken at an equal angle. However, as I've said here several times, it's not that when the public employees signed this, they'd be giving the broke check that this could become a reality for the funds that already had rights in the A League. It was just not like that at all. No matter what. The secretary of finance Bjarni Benediktsson speaks of this or the other one being caught and that we are not to speak it down, does not change the fact that the bill is out of harmony with what the people felt was to be signing when the deal came. The State, or State, has said that they will protect the group from possible harm since they are 60 years of age. That's fine. But not everyone's a cashier. I wasn't sitting on what? The General for the Last election, and I don't know how it says that in the bill that was then submitted, the word "active favours " came up suddenly. However, I do know that the consequences are very serious. As a result, the trust necessary in this case is impaired. I hope it's not all gone. I know that there have been some conversations between the government and the Minister and the labour market members. However, this bill is now placed exclusively on the authority of the government as normal. I miss getting more explanation for this difference. It's like I said earlier that it's pretty serious to sign one thing and then put in a bill about another. All of this said is this case, as I mentioned at the beginning of my case, extremely important. It is very important that we take care of how we do this in the short time we regret, far too short, for such an important matter, but it is our responsibility in this majorityless situation that we live in, each of us, to go deep into this matter and hear the agreements of this agreement. We've been allowed to hear from one of the agreements that sign, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The secretary of finance for Bejana Benediktsson's Bjarni, who is responsible for all of us being able to hear from other sources. I know to do it before. A financial and business committee will be called the people who came to the agreement, but it is also our senators to study the viewpoint, because it is us who will eventually have to vote for us. This is a matter that could have been won all the way in peace. Trust had been created. Men were willing to put considerable confidence in the future and yield certain rights for potential benefits. I urge all of us in here, and those not here, who are probably more of the right moment, to be responsible in the matter, to look at all its sides, and to work quickly, and indeed, that the bill that eventually becomes a law conforms to the agreement that was signed in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u45	Madam President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the law on the Pension Fund of Ministers of the State. As noted in these discussions today, this case was given at the last assembly, and it was a significant discussion then. I would like to agree with it with a bang. paritaprevir Katrín Jacobs Jakobsdóttir to the extent to which this matter is significant, for it is enormously important and of a very high interest in financial interests, on the part of pensioners, i.e. The future carers, this is the life savings and forwarding of the people we're talking about, and, on the other hand, more than 100 billion dollars from a government fund, are sorry that there was not enough time in the last council to discuss it and not find a guide for the case to put it in a committee between members to continue working it. True, the matter has changed since its release. I think they're better, but I don't know if they're enough. This, of course, is serious, as was the last speaker. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, mentioned in his talk, when an agreement has been signed that different parties disagree on what it means. Then I'd like to return to the fact that we're talking about a really big, important case. It is of such magnitude that when decisions are made, everyone must be on the same page. It's pretty clear to me. The Economic and Business Committee is waiting for a great deal of work in the coming days to get guests, stakeholders, officials of the union involved, to meet them, to bring out their vision and attitudes on this matter, and then possibly thereafter to suggest the necessary change in order for all to make peace with pleasures. I want my talk to make two things more important to me. It's not the only thing important in this matter, I realize that I will not be able to review everything that really matters, but there are two things that I want to do and actually relate to things that I thought were important to bring up at the last council. The first factor is an increase in pension age from 65 years to 67 years. I asked the highest. As a minister in return when he spoke for the case at the previous council, we also discussed another matter that involved the rise in pensional age unless we were talking about it in connection with the social security system, which was to raise the pension age from 67 years up to 70 years. I thought it was important to ask the highest question. Minister if the pension case had been examined in context. So, unfortunately, it didn't seem to be. I found that shocking, since social security is certainly on the top of the world. Social and housing minister while the Department of Pension is in the area of the state of the public staff. Secretary of finance. I think it's very important to have an overview of the subject and things discussed in context, as it was seen between 2 and 3. on the social security bill at the Committee's list more than that. the welfare committee that it was important to coordinate the pension rights within the Pension Fund before changing the life-taking age of the social security system and thus they were suspended. This is important to me because it matters that these matters are in harmony. The increase in pension age will not affect any system, whether within the social security system, in a public labour market or in the public. It is the monotonous fact that this will lead to an increase in disability where disability rates are high, especially in large groups of women. This certainly is part of the public employees. Of course, this involves more than women's classes. As noted during the discussion, an increase in pension age is especially related to all who work in difficult physical activities. There are, of course, classes within that have been mentioned, such as ambulances and firemen, who so far have not been traditional women's classes, but there are also other classes, such as orderlies and teachers, who may not be working directly physically but in a very demanding way spiritually. I think we need to be aware of what an increase in the pension age means in the social picture. I'm not saying that I'm going to oppose the rise in pensional age, but I think it's important that we are aware of the effects it has on our community and expenses elsewhere in the system. We also need to be aware that there is a need for flexibility in the system where even the classes that work physically hard are taken into account. Achieving a pension age also requires changes of attitude toward older people in the workplace. I think we all know and have observed in the discussion that older people often find it difficult to get a job and even at risk of losing their job during a workforce. It's hard and probably impossible to write a change of viewpoint into a song, I'll figure it out completely, but here's the job of employers very much. In this case, in the controversies of the council we present today, the responsibility of the public is great. We must demand that the government go ahead with a good example and not give up on the people who are going to a pension age and have as part of their staff policy to hire older people at work. This is important in this discussion. This was the second thing I wanted to discuss, the change in the pension age. The other is the equation of public and public employment markets. I thought it was the highest. In his historical history, a minister of finance spoke well of the fact that there were differences of viewpoints, some even wanting to go the other way, to settle the pay first, and later to the pension rights. I thought it was good to get to the top. Ministers should mention it because I must agree with the concern of those who have spoken of the lack of proper handling of the matter, i.e. How to balance your salary for what to aim for. I have to say, the text of the paper with the bill is pretty open to interpretations. It says, by permission of the president, on page 20. 16: Then there will be the possibility that the pay balance will be within the scope of the collective agreements and financial programmes set out and that several other factors will be able to measure to counter measures, such as increasing production in public activities, reorganization and management of services, technical development, measures to reduce other expenses, etc. It is in this field that you can simply influence how the budgets are being prepared for a remuneration. I don't find it strange that there are groups of people out in the community who worry about this, and there's really nothing in it, but certainly they were giving some kind of hope and an impression that the benefits will be improved. So the text is so vague and, in fact, can be done in order to set aside room for future changes if one wants to do so. It's one of the things I feel like it's caused. The Economic and Business Committee should take a special look and ask their guests out and try to work better because I think there is a willingness to pay for this matter and because it is so financial that the knots are done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u46	Madam President. The bill on this topic is necessary. That is quite clear, it has been shown in the matter of many other causes. Councilmen as well as members of the U.S. Supreme Court. The minister of finance, so I'm not going to waste my time repeating that argument, so I agree with them very much. In this context, though, we need to understand two things that I think are worth talking about. On the one hand, this action will cost a fortune to the state. About 100 billion dollars. ISRs are put in order to raise the funds, which is devoted to extending a large amount of space and allowing space to continue business in the normal manner. These funds must be looked into in the context of the entire pension system, which some have estimated to include some 3,500 billion dollars. This is therefore an injection into a huge pension fund system of about 4% of its total resources if this assessment is correct. The above are some 4 billion each year on the state budget because of the high expenditures that must be financed by the overhauling of the budgets. Whether you look at the enterprises that are in stock markets, government debt, or other large financial resources in the Icelandic economy, you can see that your pension funds have become quite important. It may be that the vast weight of the pension fund has some unpredictable effects on the economy, even harmful. It may be that in general consumption, housing, and so forth, the cost of spending is increasing, reducing the privacy of others to investments, driving up interest levels, and so on. A lot of this has been investigated, but not quite quite so I know. The other thing is, people's life span keeps rising, like wind. paritaprevir Eva Baldursdóttir Baldursdóttir shaved earlier. I really liked what I did. paritaprevir Just before, Þóra Árnadóttir traced to the job opportunities of the elderly, that they need to grow and improve in the light of increasing age, while British Aubrey Aubrey De Grey has claimed that the first human being who will be born at the age of a thousand has already been born. I don't know if I believe that, he's a little far gone, but at least it's clear that there's going to be more of a rule than an exception to people getting old at the age of the century. Medical progress will increase the ability of people to function until they are old, which is of great importance, and we need to consider them altogether. As life age increases, the ability to work is not in harmony with that will always put more and more stress on the pension system. It is obvious that the problems facing the pension system, both LS and other pension funds, will not be solved by minor or major corrections. I think there's some major correction we're discussing here today, but it's not gonna be solved with it. We need to make a complete review of the pension system. I believe we have to solve the problem quickly and bind it for a year's time. In the meantime, I suggest that the job be done as soon as possible to revise the entire pension system, to investigate the possibility of a flow system, and any other aspects of that matter, will be examined because there is much to do. It's a complex system that has an amazingly broad impact on Iceland's economy. If we do not correct it and do it well, older people in our community may suffer a great deal. Actually, there is no need to correct this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u47	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to sue the Cathedral Act. The bill aims to change the budget of the remuneration of government officials, executives, and others in charge of the decision of the Board of Elders, which is to reduce substantially the number of those determined by the Board of Elders and other remunerations. The objective of the bill is to reimburse those who take pay according to standard labour contracts and, on the other hand, that those who are unable to negotiate their pay normally because of the nature of the work have more resources for decisions made in terms of pay and their salary than at present. Up to 74th. The Constitution requires the right of men to establish societies for every legal purpose, including unions. That is what 2 mg says. 75. g. The Constitution that the rights of a person to negotiate his employment and other work-related rights are under legal legislation. This law must then be explained in the light of international contracts validated by Iceland or transferred to law. It is the European Convention of Human Rights, which guarantees freedom of society in Article 11. His. Up to 74th. The Constitution presents the rule that guarantees freedom for all citizens to become members of the legal organisation. Classes are specifically mentioned there and show how important the function of the trade unions and their freedom to action is in the mind of the chairman. One of the most important roles of a trade union is to negotiate collective agreements. State unions of public employees have a law on government agreements for public staff markets in general. It attributes the role of the partners and establishes rules about the most important factors in their activities. Is there a problem? To find the complete number of conditions that the budget must meet in order to operate and the conditions where it can legally apply its authority. However, the right to negotiate a remuneration is protected in 75 st. The constitution, even though it is then referred to the Lawgiver, to expand further on the import of the right thing. However, in spite of the right to negotiate a salary, the legislatator has felt the need for a law-enforcement agent to remuneration for some of them, such as that the remuneration is not expected to depend on contracts normally because of the nature of the job or a contract. The evidence that has been presented for having a legal ruling party is in two basic kinds: on the one hand it is that it is by the people of the national standings and the highest hand of the executive authority and the judicial authority; and on the other, it is men who do jobs that do not follow the contract or strike due to the nature of the work, either because of safety reasons or because of their prerogatives for the State and those primarily in the affairs of the state. In evaluating which remuneration should be determined by a legal judge, it is appropriate to include only the nation's highest rulers, judges and prosecutors for their special status under the Constitution and certain government officials, as the nature of the work, enjoying special service to the Commission. The rationale for this system is that it is abnormal to perform a blood transfusion on the individual's salary level. Trends over the past few years have been attributed to increased central management, and too much of those under the Council's decision will fall beyond what is indicated by the nature of the work and the speciality of the European Commission. In this regard, it is not merely a reference to the changes that took place after the financial collapse but to the fact that over a longer period of time the trend has been in this direction. With the freedom of society and the contract, the main objective of the bill is to reduce the number of people determined by the board to pay and other remunerations and that they depend on contracts normally as they come about by the nature of the profession or by contract. A respectable president. So the bill suggests some changes in the law of advice and other laws in harmony with the changes made on the Board of Elders. First of all, it will be the task of the Council of Elders to determine the salary and remuneration of the people's salary, the judges, the prosecutor, the Minister, the Ministry of Ministers, and the office of the Iceland Board of Directors who will hear a Minister who will handle government personnel and give an answer to a minister in the preparation of collective agreements, presidents, bank managers, bank managers, deputy bank managers, and state managers. Secondly, the elected office manager at the Iceland Board and the ambassador will take into account collective agreements in the usual way, i.e. the contracts of the college staff of the Board of Directors, and the approval of assistant ministers take into account the elected office manager of the Board of Directors. Third, a specific work unit that works on the responsibility of financial and economic ministers will be assigned to determine a further basic category and subclasses, as well as the presupervision for extra payings, but the local minister's management or the management of subclasses and additional salients on the basis of the Commission's specific work unit, where the Directorates of state bodies will be able to monitor and sing to their partners on matters of opinion that may be developed for the sake of the classification of the work and the Presidency, i.e. that this special unit of activity should be given to you. Fourth, the decision of an executive partner and other types of partner, the private rights, which are more part of the State and the Commission members of partner and other members, private rights, which are more than part of the State's rights, will be restored to the relevant administration, where the government normally negotiates the salary and employment of the Commission on the basis of the Community's employment policy and established government policies. Fifth, the decision of a bishop, a bishop of dedication, the most testicipant and priest of the National Church depends on contracts within the National Church, but will not follow the decision of the Council of Cathedral if the arrangement exists between state and State, church, according to the agreement of state and State, from 1997 to the 60th Cathedral. track No. 78/1997, on the status, management, and conduct of the National Church; and to deal with this agreement, the decision of this party, the bishop, the dedication bishop, the test and the priest, according to the agreement; otherwise, those listed here will remain under the advice of men. Therefore, the main purpose of this bill is to change the arrangements of the pay scale so that they will be greatly reduced in terms of pay and other remunerations. If the bill continues to be accepted, the decision will reduce the number of those who fall under the Council of Surgeons as per the bill about 430 but after the number of 150, of which 63 members of the Council and 64 judges. In these figures, then, an agreement with the National Church is being made. If not, those listed here will remain in the current system of things, i.e. They will be paid and will be employed at the discretion of the Board of Elders, which would have an increase in the number of people I mentioned. In terms of pay decisions made by the non-employers at the discretion of the decision board, it is especially seen that those groups who can negotiate with them will regain that right, while those who cannot negotiate with them will go under a similar remuneration plan as did Norway until 2015, which had been in use since 1991. The Norwegian system was based on five basic salaries and four subtypes, as well as on temporary additional pay. This is a fairly technical matter in this pay conference, but in short it can be said that the pay for a job depends on the basic subclass and subsection of the job, and the salary is updated annually. Further implementation is explained in a report with the bill, but it can be said that 2/3 jobs in the Norwegian system were classified as basic labour groups A and B. This includes detailed assessments that can be used in further discussion of detailed implementation. I'll allow me to refer to this in a paper with the bill. However, I would like to briefly discuss the specific work unit that I turned aside in my case, but according to the bill, a special work unit will be hidden on behalf of a minister to determine the number of basic labour groups working, the basis for the basic remuneration categories and the basis for which the basic labour group of individual jobs will be established, the basis for further subclasses and the additions. According to the concept and the bill, it is the partner minister who then determines, or after the events of the concerned management board, which determines the management body and its additional salary based on the premise that the special labour module has set. I have also briefly concluded that a member of the management board will be given the opportunity to observe and sing on behalf of his colleagues about matters of opinion that may arise. This is important in changing as of this and as a result of the Society's consultation on such factors. It is proper to have among the officials who do not have special positions with the executives and heads of state that are published each year according to 2 mg. Twenty-two. The personnel contracting each remuneration should follow a new system. The bill has chosen to suggest changes to the staff law, where a special service unit is assigned to set this on behalf of the minister. The agreement on a new remuneration system has been made with the proposals of a management staff for the work environment. In fact, the staff submitted suggestions on this subject and had discussed the positions, conditions, and ideal directors; a few years ago they returned their proposals to the Ministry. It has been looked forward to, as well as to two reports of The State's Reconnaissance of Human Resources, which came out a few years ago under the terms of the State of Human Resources (U.S. End of State Staff and Human Resources of the State of ◯ 2. Government policy and government standards of human resources. It is safe to say that in recent years, some pressures have been made to make changes in order to improve the flexibility of these substances and to meet them in some ways here. I'd like to get back to the fact that the bill suggests that the managers of the Board of Directors and ambassadors will no longer be under the decision of the Cabinet Council as I've traced. It is proper to also conclude that in accordance with this, it is suggested that the selection of assistant ministers take into account the elected office manager at a collective agreement. The bill suggests that the decision to make pay and employment of the head of a partner and other members of the body will be restored to the relevant administration. I think it's perfectly normal. It could be said that it has always been thought of as a temporary arrangement to bring the employment of the head of a partner under a board, which was done in the fall of financial companies and in the context of other changes made under the advice of a collective agreement to make a decision. But it is time for governments to take their own place in negotiating the employment of the Commission. Under government financial legislation, the activities and activities of the State are listed in Part A, B, and C. Whether or not the person will go under a new arrangement is taken into account in the bill. Part A directors and directors of Period B will be reassigned, however, the Commission of Part C will be subjected to the decision of the legislature and the management board will decide again on pay and their remuneration. The bill also suggests making a decision on the salary of the head of the European Commission to reinvigorate the European Commission and is then scheduled to switch under official financial laws, which include C-sections. Is this in accordance with what is suggested for the head of a partner in the majorityitution of the state? At the same time, the management board is suggested to set up a worksheet policy, allowing consideration of the 79th par. a partner-shaped. Similarly, in these areas there is reason to remind us of the government's ownership policies in partnerships and partnerships, but it shows that the State's core policy is based on a professional and transparent movement of State organizations so that the general trust in government and its activities is properly established. I imagined that at the time of a change that would result from this bill's approval, it would be a special letter to the relevant government that the State would not accept as a result of the development of a worksheet. At the same time, it would be emphasized that a competitive wage could be negotiated to ensure that these projects could be filled at any given time suitable and effective individuals. Otherwise, I allow myself to refer in general to the mastery on these points. There are many things in this context to consider. In this context, it is perfectly normal for the members to have a work policy that is compatible with government policy. I have considered that it depends on an agreement with the National Church that a change of the current order to a priest's pay decision will be made, and it will be decided on whether such agreements will be made. The bill presents a change of order for the decision of these parties, but provisional arrangements suggest that pay be made within the National Church until the agreement is reached. In other words, this is because it is by no means possible, but the discussion has still been alive. Finally, I would like to mention that in some cases the lawgiver has decided in a number of cases that in some cases he or she has made a decision on the pay of certain officials as the nature of the job because of a special position toward the executive's office. The rationale for this system is that it is not desirable for the European Commission to consider the salary paid by relevant officials. As a result, special laws have been discussed with those officials. These officials are now the district attorney and the U.S. Marshal. No change is anticipated for these officials. Finally, I want to say that at the time I have worked at the Council, several times the decision taken has been made on the basis of a special arrangement for these matters. It may first be the time when the Council decided to intervene in Kjara's decisions at the end of 2005. Such decisions led to criticism, and the council saw the need to respond in order to create peace in a labour market and perhaps set a good example. It has been a valuable process of observing how such measures have generally been played and followed by the way the council, in other cases, wanted to intervene in the development of a dresser determined by a dresser. A Council was established following the development of a change in the Kjarasday. In 2008, 2009, the idea was to build a foundation for a labour market, in a manner similar to that of 2005, to send out a message that there were no times or circumstances for much pay, and therefore top officials and the head of state and their salary were completely reduced, and the pay was later paid by all those under the advice of a dure. I remember that at that time, it was held open to make sure that the pay would be further reduced, showing how pessimistic the people back then were. It was kept open for the general market, following an incident, in collective agreements a decrease in pay was expected to be expected to save jobs. So pessimism was a prospect at the time. Happily, though, that was not what happened. What happened was that there was only a steady rise that had occurred in the years before, both in general and in public markets, but since then there has been a marked rise, which has been closer to standing, and at the same time, the freezer was valid for those under the advice of men. As a result, the number of people who had previously observed the development of pay became quite shiny. There was a spark between the groups that heard the advice and were first cut to pay and then frozen, and the people who agreed to pay. In this regard it is very important to remember that there was never a change in the law of dressers, that counsel should determine those who hear a salary that is comparable to what happens in those who have a similar responsibility or position in the community. A board of directors is aimed at monitoring pay development in the country and implementing decisions accordingly. It is good to remember what I stepped back to that at the beginning of my case in this context, how important the rights are taken by those who hear under the advice to negotiate the purchases and terms and naturalities that in law are therefore to find laws that ensure any protection of any kind or structure that ensures that you will have a tasteful development in the country and a similar dresser in most context and that will happen in those with similar positions, such as responsibility, etc. It can also be noted that it was never in the discussion at the time when these changes were mentioned as being an independent aim of the intervention to intervene in the relative positions of those under a dresser's adviser compared to other groups, that it would be in some way the goal of reducing the terms of those under a dresser's adviser when compared to others, but it was assumed that the setting of precedents and going ahead of developments that would be inevitable elsewhere. Let us bear in mind that this was the same time we had adopted a currency. We ran a government fund with hundreds of billions of angles. We had a lot of confusion about rebuilding the financial system, early elections, etc. All of this must be examined in that light. It may be said that since then the situation in a job market was not quiet, despite the gradual improvement in the prospects. That's for a number of reasons. On one hand, there is the growing debt of the households due to the general use of insurance insurance in Iceland. But obviously the fall of the crown was greatly reduced, and efforts have been made to earn it back by payoffs. The job market has not been so happy about how to go through this. The ever - present stability complex broke down. In the last six, seven years, we've seen many partners at work. However, the advice of a humorer prepares us the legal obligation to determine the salary of those who are subject to it in view of the status of others. When the law determined lye was removed, a measure of humor was faced with a bit of a tense situation. It had become quite shiny, but at the same time, there was a very delicate situation in the labour market. So there was trouble. Of course, there is no room for war in the labour market, and there is no doubt in their decisions that the greatest agreement could achieve its decisions. But it is not a simple matter in conditions that have been in the job market for the past few years. I think it's important when we look back at the developments that have followed the intervention of the legislator's work and the decisions we make when we wonder how often and how decisive the council can be divided by the results of a advice board. I'm gonna let me point out one thing in that relationship. Of course, there is an enormous loss of jaw just to sit back while everyone else increases their salary. In itself, there has never been an improvement in the advice of a coward. Now let us look at all the others besides those sitting here at the legislature. You see, there are many others, like judges, who in their time went to court to test their own rights in this regard and to do better. In my mind, it is quite undisputed that, whatever has been said of the recent decision of a dresser, there is an uncluttered group because of the time when the pay was below freezing. All of this has led me to be convinced that the council is primarily obliged to do one thing, to put reasonable, transparent rules in the law of a decision to follow. This bill tries to sharpen such rules, including for the transparency of the decision-makers, support to decision-making, resources to make decisions follow market and collective agreements, their development, that decisions are made more often and regularly, etc. So they say: More transparency, more prole for argument support, and try to resist the fact that there is too long between decisions. In my mind, however, it is widely viewed as completely delirium that then, when the decision is made by decision, by material comments, and by making changes in such matters is made by the council. This is merely a problem that needs to be solved later. This is what I say after watching it happen repeatedly during the council. It is my opinion that there were good intentions at the beginning with the intervention that was brought here into the collapse. But the matter was not over. We've been in a lot of trouble following it down to this day. This is part of the reason I put this bill back. However, this does not change the fact that the council had to listen to the viewpoints that have been presented. I believe there are more ways of doing this than of winding down the decision of a fellow man. For example, in view of the new decision made by the Council of Elders, we will consider the aspect that we have under control from the council by other than the law of counsel or by intervening in the decision of the council. This is not in all matters of simplicity. They often stir up feelings. It is unpleasant to discuss your own terms. That's why I say we should never have to be in that position. That is now the purpose of the law and the arrangement that has been valid. That situation is just unnatural. That is true in both directions, though from the time I entered the council, men were primarily involved in reducing the elected members of the council by means of the procedures I have referred to. Then, it can be said that the changes in the pension rights of members and ministers were all one way in which they were taken together to reduce them. I hope that this issue, which is raised by most political leaders, can be well discussed in a material way. [[The president calls.]] We need to put it in context of what can be done on the presiding committee. I suggest that the case be referred to a second. and the Economic and Business Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u48	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on the probable establishment of this bill, one of the very few primarys that are now submitted, because the decision of the Council of Elders poses a threat to a workforce resolution. That is what the employment organization says, the collective body of employees also says. Following the rise of the election's salary and ministers, on election day, the decision was made, the teachers in one school in the capital area have reported their jobs. According to this workforce, there is a potential for workforce resolution on the basis of the decision of a panel. I can't believe we're here today discussing this bill because of this decision. There is now something that needs to be done to disarm the bomb as the advice of a coward to raise the salary of the senators and ministers and others. That's the question, and I'm asking the highest. Minister: What in this bill does that do? The current law states that, in line with other decisions taken for others for which the advice must be made, the decision must be made on an internal basis, in accordance with similar professions, but its decisions must not exceed the possibility of endangering the collective agreements of the worker. That's what the law says. All of this disappears with this bill, these overstimulated defenses, that there is no risk of a workforce resolution because it causes economic instability. It disappears with the bill. These defenses aren't strong enough. What is it in the bill, above what the Minister mentioned, which is some kind of increased transparency, which is the answer to the situation that has occurred today because of the decision of a dresser? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u49	Madam President. I recommend here for a bill I've recommended before. Actually, it's got a few changes. When I made the statement last, the decision not to be passed and the bill was presented, not in the context of the rise of an elected representative, but because of what I have studied in my case, that I believe that it is important to increase the numbers of those under my authority. But even In view of the recent comments made, I add to the bill, and those involved in the requirement that there be increased transparency in the decision-making of a collective body, a better and more logical point of view, that decisions should be made on a regular basis, and then there are regulations in the bill that determine that a collective agreement for the development of a labour market can be agreed. What I think is why. A senator is calling for, at the same time, a decision to wind away from the outcome of a dresser's counsel. You're right about what you're doing. Senator I don't suggest that. I'm not suggesting that we enter legal decisions on the terms of those who cannot negotiate their salary. I reasoned that. But I also pointed out that the council has other resources to consider in its overall context. It suggests, for example, a period of stress. It is also possible to watch which job expenses the State repays to national representatives, etc. All of this needs to be done very carefully. But if they're calling on the fact that the last decision is canceled or any other change is being made, I'm not suggesting it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u50	President. I've naturally called it exactly what the council does, but that's not what I'm calling it, I'm not calling it about this bill, but how it's better into the dresser's decisions. V.E.G. A minister says that a dresser can take into account pay development in a labour market. This was also shown in the second bill, the bill that the Perceptive Council made a decision now, and a much stronger wording is involved. It was moved from the law on Kjara Court into the paper with the bill adopted in 2006 and said, by the permission of a president, that this was thought of as if the decision of the jurist was not to compromise the collective agreements of the majority of wage workers, thus endangering the economy. It's much stronger. This bill says about the Council of Mensaver, by permission of the President: ▪ When deciding the pay will be decided by the competent authority, it should be taken into account that these are in accordance with society's salary at any given time. In accordance with pay in society. It is mentioned as being within control, and it is also at the highest level. Minister said. They can do that. They don't have to do that. They're not bound to this as if they were supposed to be bound by it on the other bill. It is now being taken and diluted, and is not bound to take into account that they must not interfere with collective agreements of the majority of the employees. This is much weaker in this bill. There's nothing bound. Could we not bind them so that they can't get over their general pay development? Couldn't we make some sort of adjustment and put it in for them to be bound? The decision of a voter's day increased the salary of senators according to the Office of Employment - on the Ministry's Homepage, is at least 10% higher, these are not quite the latest figures at the Ministry, they have extrapolated this to SA and they believe that the increase is 21% above the general salary development. [[The president calls.]] Then we're going back to 2006, that's the 2008 drop inside. [[The president calls.]] So they're not bound.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u51	A respectable president. It is likely that during a conquistancy treatment it would be a matter of making a decision whether there is something to increase the wording of the practice in the country. But I think it is perfectly obvious that it is the purpose of the law to make decisions made by a man of discretion for those under it to reflect what is taking place in another part of the labour market. I like it. A senator is saying that a coward's council failed in that role. But he minimizes what I've traced that the council's decisions have been taken in the past, and he dejected them with very serious consequences for all who live there. had been tested and defeated by judges in this matter. It is not possible to say that the advice of a dresser is intended solely to look at the development or negotiations that have been made during a certain period of time. It's a little bit of the core of my language. The Congress is making trouble repeatedly by taking sides in the decisions of a concierge. There's a core in my language. It was created a problem when men entered those decisions in the collapse, and I have explained that it was never shown in the discussion that those who hear under control should be minimized compared with other groups in society. In fact, it was kept open that there was a possibility of continuing in the future to lower the terms of those who heard advice because of their pessimism. But what really happened was that other control groups kept rising. The committee then reviews it only during conquistador treatment if a collective body of men has somehow exceeded the pay cycle in times past. But there is no real argument because each one chooses his target. Each one finds his point and says, "Well, if you look at it from 2012, it's like this. The other one wants to watch from 2009. There's someone who wants to watch this from 2011. [[The president calls.]] My opinion is that the advice of fools needs to have a clear role. So let it be left alone with its decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u52	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prehistoric finance minister. I agree that it is necessary to revise the advice of a dresser with a transparent and more rationale. I don't think this bill is going far enough, however, especially in the light of the decision of a jurist that failed on a day's election on the entire body's salary, Minister and President of Iceland. I have taken a close look at this decision, since it surprised me considerably. I was not among those who had agreed with their decision making. So I decided to consider the rules that the board needs to follow when it comes to decision making, taking certain steps that I felt were missing in its decision but also depending on the details that I felt were missing in the laws on advice of men who were obliged to give the public clear answers and information about how they came to their conclusions. What I think caused the greatest panic in the decision of a dresser council was simply that the common people, and I, who are present in that chair, don't understand how the advice of men came to this conclusion. The reasons presented in the Council of Elders are inadequate; they do not follow enough data to be fully understood on what the decision is and do not include enough information to take an informed stand on whether a dresser's advice has at least a law of decision making. As for this bill in our case, I'd like to first point out that I still feel that there is a law lacking in law that the advice of the dresser is a professional body. It is therefore not for this bill that some kind of education or qualifications are made for an order in the board of fools. For example, it has to be preferred that those who are employed in a dress code have some sort of education and/or experience that benefit them from work and have good insight and understanding of the development of pay issues in the general labour market. Another thing I see is the increased demand of transparency, which I have heard of many woes. Councilmen are calling for, in terms of manure's practices. V.E.G. The secretary of finance came in earlier, certainly feeding this bill with a certain increased demand for transparency. In the 5th. By permission of the President's permission of the trial bill: To re-evaluate the remuneration of the individual groups, the CHMP should define control groups and published in its decision on the details of pay and pay development. However, this is the only law I've ever noticed that calls for increased transparency in the decision-making board, and I have to say that I don't think it is sufficient for the public to be fully informed as to how a dresser's advice is making decisions. You see, the Council of Elders left more questions than answers in my mind and in Porita's council. So on November 22, we formally sent a petition as parties to the Council of the Cathedral, awaiting an answer. In fact, the bill available to us does not answer many of these questions. Rather, it does not assume that advice of fools will have to answer them in the future when making decisions. Among the data we called left at the board were the documents and data used by a dresser in order to assess what a dresser hire calls special pay to the general council for extracurricular work. We asked for the opinion of a lubrity on the proportion of these special favors of a total rise in the general population, as 2 mgr. on page 24. 6 of the Council of Elders on pay and the election of the Generals. I can't see in this bill that some sort of requirement is made to inform the public, and thus to those in their decision, how they measure what is considered to be extra pay and what is not, and how high the ratio of our last day's pay raise was, in fact, for the extra pay that a dresser's advice leaves in its decision. Similarly, in the name of transparency, I feel that a dresser body is required to publish its meetings, meetings programs, conference logs, and meeting invitations as 10 g. The dresser's policies assume and, in effect, require that this be observed. I see no clear reason for anything other than that the meeting plans of a dresser's council are available to the public to explain more how they come to the conclusion they found, since I cannot properly see how a advice of men reached their decision on the pay raise of members of Congress. Finally, I see no reason but to publish letters and other data, as a result of the review of the Council's polls of Parliaments, Ministers and President of Iceland, and published them all freely on their website. I can't see that there is any reason to keep secret the documents that have come from the Ministry of finance, e.g., the Ministry of Presidency, and the President of the Generals in this regard. Finally, I'd like to take part in my case by the administration, the law on the rules of dresser advice and the law of dressers, which did not seem to be sufficiently met in the decision of the CREEP Council of the past election, that counsel should agree with the parties of the matter to which it is decided. Now I'm sitting here, a newly appointed senator, and I didn't know of the decision of a dresser and a dresser's Council that had no way of consulting me on these remunerations. So I ask myself, " Won't there be any better way to make decisions at that time and in the space that it can ensure that all parties are consulted, but not less than half of them, as the situation is today? ' So I would like to direct it to the Committee to see if there can be no increased transparency in the way I have pointed out, that the CHEW published as many data as possible, and that the advice of men should better have in mind consultation with the parties. I can't see in this law that the advice of fools is somewhere obliged to make a decision on a election day, which is, of course, the day when members of the council renew their authority. You figure it'll be at least A few new senators who have not yet been consulted. I'm not buying it, Madam President, having a battled administrative law, the rules of action of the Board of Elders, as well as the advice of the jurist, and thinking that there is a need for more attention to these matters and to ensure that the advice of a manure worker with a transparent, clearness and professional practice should be guided. There's a lot of stuff missing in this bill for that to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u53	Madam President. As noted, we answered at the highest. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson is not the main purpose of this bill to respond to the situation at risk of work market resolution, as mentioned by the labour market. This bill should not respond. V.E.G. A minister mentions some other factors that could be done, but a bill does not, for the bill itself shows that the main purpose is to reduce the number of those under the advice of a man. Still, it may be possible to let the bill respond to the present position. Despite the legal process, despite the law as it stands, a Council might still be able to do so. that it cannot go beyond the box set for general employment development in the labour market, otherwise attach it to this bill. It's not done here, but it can be done. I heard a minister was open to look at it. There is something that will be done during the assembly. Let's discuss the problem raised by a panel's decision to raise the salary of senators by 21% beyond the general labour market development according to figures made by the Labour Association - it was done on Day -- and see how it came about, by which authority is in the law, how daring to back up the decisions it makes so that we can learn from it. Perhaps it would be in the bill to prevent such a future position. Surely all of us want to do so. It is clearly stated in the law to the aim of setting up a border on labour market development, that the decision of a collective body will not go beyond it, is reducing the risk that it will have a major impact on the collective labour agreements and, as a result, the economic situation. All members of the Parliament must agree that this is the goal we should stick to and strive to be more active. What happened? According to the law on this, when asked, "How do you feel about getting a raise? " The prime committee answers - I have seen these meeting projects - that it may be time for the promotions, but she does not want to interfere more. That is what is presented in the meeting of the presiding committee. The only thing mentioned about the treasurers'meeting with the prime committee in the fall is when the prime committee meets, going to the country, meeting, and meeting. There is one member of the committee who asks: " Don't we need something to talk to a dresser? But, hey. The president of Generalis, Einar K. Guðfinnsson of God, says: "We're not going to interfere. This is all the senators knew. The senators knew a year ago that there was supposed to be an increase. They didn't know when it would be. All the talk that they knew about it is undisputed. A year later, a decision will be made on this dramatic increase, far beyond the currently set frame. What does the law say about advice? They review it at their decision so that they know these laws. They make approximately 20 decisions every year. They have a very detailed explanation of the administration laws that concern the members of which they make decisions. They know these laws. That is where they say IV. section of their decision - and people can go to the spade.is, under the decision, and find this there - with the permission of a president: Eight o'clock. a law on the advice of counsel says, that it should be handled according to a solution maintains the accord between the members of the profession and that they are at any given time in accordance with society's pay for those who are comparable to their work and responsibilities. It's internal and external. There is a small number of advice on this in their decision. In accordance with the internal harmony, the wise course is to make decisions, i.e. as the pay of someone under the adviser increases, looking at the decisions of another person whose salary is increased, whether priests or judges or others. The overall agreement is between the responsibilities they make, that there is a consistent relationship between pay and jobs in the community that could be counted comparable on some basis. However, in one sentence that can be framed - and yes, these two factors should be taken into account, internal harmony and external harmony - but in those decisions it must not go beyond the box, it must not create a labour market instability. And they mention it in one sentence, with the permission of a president: Then advice should always take into account the general development of a dresser in a labour market. - Nothing more, no explanation. Nothing. The board did not speak to ASI or SA about its decision: Hey, this may be our decision to raise the body's salary by 21% above the general salary development of the labour market, the stock of the labour contracts at high risk. Is that possible? They don't mention it. Nothing. It is not simply said that a dresser should always take into account 2 mg. Section 8. The law? Taking into account, what does that mean? Just like this: taking into account that? No, that doesn't mean that. It's a very powerful sentence when you look at it in the report. And people can look into a law on a dresser's council, just go through a dress code, go into the law, find the left - side of the case, go into the case, and then a paper from when the bill was submitted first that explains what is actually being said in the law text. What does this explanation reveal? When the law is stated in the explanation provided in a report, what it means to take into account employment development. Then there are explanations with the bill, which is now a dresser's law, and it's a uniting of the Kjara Court and the Reconcommunication Committee. When I tell Kjara Court, it's the judgment on these regulations that they're bringing back the defences into the law that you can't go outside the box and put a risk to a job market. I don't want a dresser's decision. There's a line about it. 2nd matter 5. The current law is a law that says, by permission of the president: The Kjarast Court shall take into account the development of dressers in the labour market. In comments with the bill, which became the law No. 120/1992, this law is clear, and it is very clear what that means, that it is thought that, by permission of the president: ▪... there is no danger that the Kjara Court's decision against the majority of wage contracts could compromise the economic stability of the economy. It is not that their decisions violate the law, that their decisions have caused them to interfere with collective agreements, but this puts them at risk. The workforce at the labour market has now made it clear that the workforce's decision will create a solution to a labour market, making a threat of a workforce resolution. Both the entire labour market organization uses the same terms; workforce resolution. And they both say that the Council must do something about it. Business organizations say that the Council of Surgeons is to be rejected by the Council of Elders, and ASI says it should be reversed by the General. Let's go back into the report. What does it mean to take into account economic development in decisions? By permission of the President: It also includes the fact that the Kjara Court has to, in this way, be taken into account pay and change in the labour market as a result of improving the population's resources, although these changes are not supported by collective agreements. Therefore, a court of law should take into account pay policies in the labour market rather than shape them. You will remember that this is being transferred from Kjara Court into a dresser council, such as a position in the labour market, not shaped by a labour market. That's why we're even at risk. to create now. When teachers quit their jobs because of their decision and start negotiating their salary, this may be a challenge, which is not to be done by the law. Again, with president's permission: In other words, this law was designed to be a general basis for the decisions made by Kjara Court, which were based on efforts to ensure both internal and external harmony in the Kjarasdom's decision decisions. Look. In fact, it is mentioned in the report as a special setting for the other decisions, internal and external harmony. The bill on the Council of Mensula, as explained here, follows the same policy and, in fact, is established by the second paragraph 8 paragraph. the bill is still firmly expressed on this subject, which says: ◯Counsel Council should always be taken into account the general development of dressers in the labour market. In order to emphasize that this is a general reference but not a unique reference to comparable work in the labour market, the workforce is referred to as a general trend in the labour market, as well as a requirement for this view to always be cared for. And it's in it. This is so clear. An agreement was made to make internal and external decisions but always within the framework, within the framework, and does not exceed general pay development to the point of endangering the labour contracts and being a policy-makers in the market. But that is what counsel has done now. According to the labour market collective organisations, both the paypayers and the employee, this is what the board has done. This decision has created a risk for labour market resolution. The General can't pass in such circumstances. People who are now making legal decisions because they can cause economic instability. We're good. We're good. According to the law, a decision is made to increase the salary of members of Congress, which creates a possible resolution of the labour market and, consequently, economic instability. The General can't pass in such circumstances. That would be most irresponsible. Yes, it's a bad thing that the Council suffers from their wages. The principle is that the Council is not to be employed in its pay. But there are exceptions. Will it be the fact that work market resolution and economic instability follow, not justify the intervention of the Council? Then, as Geir H. Haarde ordered a legislature on the law of 2008 after he did not want to respond when sending a letter to send it back to the Parliament's pay for the general pay of pay. A general body might also respond in some other way, so the workforce system could say: There is no longer a crisis, no longer a risk of labour market resolution. But the bill has a minimum if we continue with that discussion. This has to be the case so that the level of pay cannot be exceeded again, thereby creating a potential risk of workforce resolution. There's something we can do. Then we'll take the rest of the discussion later. But the Parliament cannot pass when there is a potential for a workforce resolution because of the decision made by a concierge board.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u54	Madam President. I would like to recommend a hearing of a change to the General No. 40/145, of an investigation into foreign participation in purchases of 45.8% share in Iceland's Bank of Products, respectively. O.F. I present the proposal on behalf of the Council Presidency and an audience of Bjarts and the Conspiracy. It consists of the research committee appointed by the Council of June 2, to investigate the involvement of German banks at purchases of the committees of holdings in Iceland's Bank, to complete their investigation as soon as possible, instead of being completed on December 31, K. The NTSB complies with 2 mg. Section 12. the Board of Research Committees explained the progress of the study to the President of the Generals. By the time they arrived, the committee, as a final part of their study, planned to publish a specific witness for reporting on November 11, 2000. When it became evident that the witness refused or ignored, the committee requested in accordance with the NTSB laws that they would be presented for a federal hearing to answer questions about the study. Their response to the Commission's requests for information has led to a delay in the work of the committee and it is predictable that the study will not be completed within the period established in the Council's resolution. The NTSB feels that the extension of the report would be extended, and if a report is not submitted by 31 December, it would otherwise be expected to further test the authority and authority of the Committee for Justice. This unprecedented response to the NTSB's request for information is causing the case to be in the hands of the courts and it is inevitable that the study will be delayed. So the proposal suggests that rather than the end of the committee no later than December 31rd. she should complete her duties as soon as possible. There was a full agreement on the presiding committee and supported by presidents, vice presidents, and publicists that this would be the case with the General Assembly. In view of the fact that the matter is given by the prime committee, where the representatives of all classes have seats as well as an audience officer, I suggest that this case be referred, not to a committee, after this discussion, but to a future issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u55	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to the final budget set for 2015 that has been distributed on the roof. 8. The bill is submitted in accordance with law No. 88/1997, of the state's income, to confirm government accounts by 2015. The bill was also passed toward the end of September, last assembly, but it was not yet reached, and it is now reassigned unchanged. The production of the number elements of the bill is in line with the budgets and budgets of the year and the results of the state bill for the same year and is in the same format as the bill for the final budget of the previous year. The bill uses the same work protocol as it used to calculate financial change due to sectoral anomalies and payment and provision at the end of each year's budget. In addition to the staging of substitutions at capital sites on the basis of standard, standard guidelines, this bill suggests that a special collapse of a section of the set-up of several institutions is in place, as I will proceed more closely afterwards. It is recommended that the legal regulations on public financial matters be made in Article 1 of the Treaty and the final budget and in 2016 follow the regulations of the State's budget, No. 88/1997. The same applies to each Member State's annual accounts until 2016. According to the 45 st. The budget must be paid in the final budget for financial payment beyond the current budgets and any unused documents not transferred from year to year. The bill shall also state the ruined loans of the past year. At the same time, the bill shall provide a special file for stored sources and for the members who have overstepped the budgets of the year. Thirty-seventh. By the end of the account year, the law is authorized to hold a ruined budget and in a similar way to subsidies the previous year's external expenses. The contents of the bill are largely balanced on the way to Article 1. it is requested that the budget be adjusted in accordance with the current budget and budget. In this case the financial resources of institutions and projects funded by a share in government income are increased or decreased depending on whether the income may be greater or less than expected in budgets and budgets. Two. it is proposed that the funds obtained at the end of the year be completed. So this is leftovers and external fees that do not move between years of age and thus do not change the budget of 2016. It's even here. otherwise it is budgetary positions for projects and joints where expenses depend on laws other than budgets, such as social security, interest costs, and pension commitments. The Article 1 of this bill provides an overview of budget positions at the end of 2015 that are expected to be transferred to 2016. So it's a different endpoint than the one suggested to be dropped at the end of the year, according to Article 2. The bill. The package 2 with the bill provides an overview of the base of the number. The overview shows the origin of all the budgets of 2015 for both total and individual financial resources. It consists of overcrowded budgets from the previous year, budgets under budgets and funds, transfers within the year, and changes in budgets because of the disproportionateness of the state's income under this bill. Next, budgetary expenditures and, at the end of the year, financial facilities are implemented, i.e. The difference between total capital and account-employed bills. In 2015, total funds were 673.6 billion. But the cost according to government accounts was 666.5 billion dollars. This year's financial status was thus positive at a rate of 7.1 billion, i.e. by more than 1% of the total budgets of the year. The end point of the year is a total of 29.1 billion. leftover warrants and 22 billion dollars. external fees for individual budgetors. As always, there are several irregular teams that are a target in terms of dissociation of account tools from budgets. First of all, there is 7.4 billion. extra payment on the pension debt due to a greater increase in the debt of Pension bonds in the financial account, estimated in budgets and funds. Second, 4.5 billion dollars. left-over warrants on the Substitute Bank Fund, where it did not prove to be necessary to place the fund for 2 billion dollars. in a precautionary budget authorized, but the fund was profited in 2015, and it proved to be only a need to make use of 1.2 billion dollars. of 3.7 billion, which were donated as a contribution to budgets to improve the fund's lost interest in debt correction by the government. Third, 2.9 billion bucks. The annual budget for the Land Hospital is a regular base of business. Fourth, 2.2 billion a.m. left-over warrants after the end of the tax returns to $2.1 billion and fifthly 2.1 billion, respectively. More than the year's expenses in the past State Fund. In each of these cases, except in the case of the Land Hospital, it is accounting-based records that were not anticipated in the payment of the budget of 2015, where it is completed at the close of the State Calculus about six months later. So I'm going to go down to the bill's sides. In 1st. The bill, on the basis of further fragmentation 1, provides proposals for change in budgets for 2015 due to the variation of market income markets and other business agencies from budgets and budgets. It is suggested that budgets be increased by less than 506 billion. K. According to this plan, funding projects with markets of government income. For more details, it is requested by the Council to take care of these revenues according to what was established according to a financial account or who evaluated the financial needs of tasks funded by these revenues. In general, budgets increase by the number of interest markets over the budget but decrease if income has been less than expected. This criteria is not valid, however, because there is no evidence of changes in budgetary funds due to state income abnormalities where income and expenses are not directly linked, such as in pension insurance. The same is true if financial expenditures have been determined on projects, regardless of possible changes in funding markets, such as contributions to road accounts. Two. By the end of 2015, the bill, as measured by the further dissociation of 2. The main objective of this is to cut down the posts of budgets where expenses depend on laws other than financial laws or are contracted and to be controlled only by changes. The same is true of terms where expenses depend on economic, system, or accounting factors rather than on financial management. It is also related to the loss of remaining permissions in general and other regular activities beyond 10% of the total budget of the projects unless specific cause is considered otherwise. A financial status will also drop if an assignment is completed. As with any preparation of the bill to the final budget, this bill has been reviewed by all financiers and translocation proposals and declines, taking into account the facts in these guidelines. This is how the bill expects more than 3.3 billion dollars to be dropped. excess expenditure based on standard guidelines. As I took steps earlier in this bill, I also assumed that special folds of decomposition will be collected at a part of the meeting of some of the museums by the end of the year. This is a case in which the accumulated management hall has grown to the point where it is not considered realistic for relevant organisations to be able to operate in the same budget and level of services. The purpose of this procedure is also to prepare for the Ministry by providing them with a more solid basis for planning and implementing funding in a new legal environment in 2017, in accordance with the laws on public finances and better conditions to meet legal requirements for keeping lawsuits within financial resources. To prepare a bill for budget management before 2016, it was considered that we would take this accumulated problem of disposal there. On the other hand, the State's budget is based on a clear policy on the role and content of budget laws, and it is assumed that it is merely a matter of budgetary measures that must be taken because of incidents that were inconceived by budgets, agreements, or new legislation. It's better to deal with the problems of the final financial law. According to the budget, in the bill for the final financial legislation shall be consulted on debt or any unused budget not transferred from year to year. In accordance with the above mentioned above, the bill suggests that a substantial proportion of the accumulated excess vehicle of several strains at the end of 2015 will not be transferred to 2016 but will be dropped at the end of the year. The primary objective of these proposals is to take on occasions where the cumulative management house at the end of 2015 is more than 10% of the budget balance or more than 50 million. K. the magnitude at which 85% of the angle is dropped. However, in the case of the land hospital, 90% of the slopes are expected to be dropped. This is also true because in the case of the collection of institutions at the end of 2015, between 10 and 50 billion are present. K. half the slope goes down. This special operation will remove over 5.9 billion dollars. By the end of 2015, including 2.6 billion at the Land Hospital. This special operation will bring great relief to the congregations from many institutions, such as hospitals, clinics, high schools, agricultural schools, administrative reforms, police agencies, and other institutions. According to point two. Overall, the bill falls to under 9.3 billion of the external fees on the base of the network than a total of 1.4 billion dollars. ... ona foundation. The difference between these accounts is due to the loss of budget positions on budgets, where expenses depend on bank costs without the equivalent pay from state funds during the year, such as reimbursement for Pension bonds, a subsidies of tax charges, subsidies on the value of property and stocks, and the failure to pay on interest at the end of the year. The Article 1 of this bill provides an overview of budget positions that are expected to be transferred to 2016. A clean increase in budgets during 2016 due to these measures is 16.4 billion, i.e. which corresponds to 2.2% of budget 2016. A respectable president. I've considered the key elements of the bill here. It presents the results of the Agency's management programme and the products of Part A State Fund on budgets in 2015. In this regard, we refer to reports in budgets and GPA 2015 on the main points in the progress of the budgets and the main interest in earnings and expenditures. So I don't think that there's any reason to list the individual groups in the bill that have to be settled according to an existing government account, but I think at the end that it's important to take care of things in this way. It may be said that in general, people have to be realistic about institutions to work on the gathering of older ones into the future. While humans have always tried to do so, the tendency has, in many cases, been that it proves to be impossible for many government institutions and institutions to work that way down, even if that is the case. I believe that by the type of work that has been put up here, it is being taken into account. This is also important because of the new legal environment we are taking advantage of. Generally on these matters, I'd like to say that I would like to see some sort of arrangement to help institutions out of a business agreement. This has been discussed before we remember that in itself we are not expected to work in all the same guidelines for dealing with these matters in the future. The change in the new law on public finances is considerable in this regard. There are reserves created, recruitment responsibilities are increased very significantly and not expected to be received in the same way that has been valid, etc. For example, it is of great importance that this 2.6 billion collection of older slopes is removed from the land hospital. I'm going to finish my case and suggest that the case be referred to a second. ... andwhat. The Senate budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u56	Madam President. I'm just gonna admit that I haven't been able to read the bill, just to come to the house of a fundraiser. As we all know, there's a lot of to be here, and little time to get right into all of this. But I agree with it with the highest. Of course, it is important that these institutions, whether the land hospital, schools, or other institutions who are not able to work at this angle, and especially, as mentioned here, get a breakdown, in the light of new laws, and in view of the fact that we have been developing commercial institutions, etc. Of course, getting decomposition may be important. But if that's enough, in the light of the budgets now in the budget bill, e.g. With regard to high school or what it is now, they are transferred; some with a few angles anyway, I don't know and may have doubts about it. I kind of came here to ask the minister--at that time I walked up into a pit, I was looking up at the Vegamaking that we've talked about and the negative of my own bound money--whether I understand the right thing here is being cut off, because I couldn't get what the minister said about the Roadmaker, I just confess. Is it true that the 234 million are, in fact, the only thing left over at the Road Building, has fallen this stock we've called negative on our own money?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u57	A respectable president. Now I don't have exactly what the situation will be with the Road Force with this final budget for 2015. But on the ground, it's going into a business hall. The road has lulled a little special laws into this because it is always kept around its own money and, at times, a negative amount of money. Above all, it involves a type of inner state accounting, which tells a story that must not be overtrusted with just by the numbers alone. For the personal status of Roadmaking, it may be building up years, even decades, of history that in itself does not matter in the large context of parts of the design of the future. Such a negative self - esteem does not in itself tell the history that might be originally seen as the idea that the Agency is somehow restored and that it is being handled wonderfully. No one is considering such things. Rather, he is just keeping some sort of internal accountbook.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u58	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Of course, we know how this is possible. This is due to projects that were to be especially financed but were never really to enter this traditional form we know at the Roadmaker, no more than the tunnel on Back, should not be entered into a transport program but are still there today. It's a fortune, which was not meant to happen either. This is one of the things we're dealing with with with this negative bound of the road type. I think it matters in the accounting book that it's fixed and taken out. The same is true of other institutions we are here considering, although exactly this may not apply to them, I do not recall other institutions that are in this same situation. Of course, that is true of so many. This is exactly like the police and the politicians who set out in a new environment, united and enlarged, but their tails were divided, which, of course, is unacceptable to all parties in themselves not to get started on the right spot, and those who were right had to take part of this. I believe, therefore, that part of bringing in these new laws is that these institutions get to start on a reasonable foundation, I don't talk about where market income has been, but is no longer, that it is completely guarded, which I don't feel is entirely in the advanced budget. In fact, this is the only possibility that these institutions can continue or get normal start with the current donations. With regard to the road, we're getting the expected presentation on a budget board tomorrow, the case's been scheduled tomorrow, whether it's still there in the books, this negative personal cash. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-13-4.u59	A respectable president. This is because some of the shapes of fuel are marked, not all restrictions on fuel, but part of it. Then you decide that in addition to the funds that thus gathers, you will have other projects. Try to hold it with this accounting. Does it really matter that we always have this arithmetic accurate from time to time? Yes, it may be interesting to see it and to understand it. I have supported the efforts we've been working on, and it's the main line in the new government law that we take away from these markets. Because, after all, it is only important that we discern what the situation is in the road system, how much we put in maintenance, what general investment need there is, and to the future. How is the wealth of the state covered, not just in terms of the income we have set up, but in terms of the state's budget, what is the state's economic situation in order to increase its scope in investments, etc.? These are the questions that really matter. However, it can be interesting to realize the situation with regard to these markets and the state of your own financial status, either positive or negative, and how it stands. I didn't want to do too much with her, so they say that. There are institutions that have positive financial standings and ask permission to protect them from financial resources. There are others with negative status. I've watched this as a guide for some story that's been building up. But when it comes to it, it's all about how much money there is to spend on budgets each time.
