ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u1	The President has received so much of a letter from the Ministry of Economics and Economics: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. For official financial reasons, 123/2015 is in 1st. 7. It should be noted that the Minister should submit to the Council no later than April 1 each year a proposal for the resolution of financial planning to the next five years, as well as a report which presents policies for the A-part State seminars and how it complies with the aims for the development of income and pay. Such interpretation has not been submitted prior to the development of the proposal in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, in cooperation with other agencies, since the law went into effect on January 1. Because of the scope of that work, it is clear that within the period of time, it is not possible to finish the proposal as presented in an quoted article on public financial matters. It is scheduled to be submitted as quickly as possible, but preferably no later than April 8 (August 8, 2002).
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u2	There have been four letters from the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms asking for deadlines to give written answers to the application for this request. 747 for a travel service study, from Vilhjálmur Árnason, a petition for a spell. 127, on social security, from the Brynhildi of St. Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, a petition on the icicle. 931, about the recent farming process, from Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, and the inquiries of the spell. 940, on the environmental impact of agricultural contracts, from the Svandís's Svavarsdóttir. There have also been two letters received from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for every request to give written answers to the application for this request. 974, on state and rural pension bonds, and on the inquiries. 975 on the health-based pension debt in the country, both from the Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u3	It is a meeting that will be expelled from the council so that this period of inquiry can last longer than what the Senate puts out of it. Ten prepared queries must be submitted. To answer, Economic and Economic Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers and Environmental and Resource Ministers. [Keeps sound disturbances.]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u4	A meeting is held. For a moment, the president wants to take part in the role of television parties and say: "The technology has been pushing us. On the other hand, the president would like to ask for favors in this technical problem that we believe has been resolved. Commence queries to the minister according to the 7 mgr. 49. g. Parliamentary events, as previously announced.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u5	A respectable president. We are experiencing an unprecedented position in Icelandic politics. The lights of the world are directed to Iceland in ways other than those mentioned in this story. Iceland's special status is that we have political leaders who've been involved in the tax industry. There is no other Western country in the same situation. The president of Iceland expressed it well in a statement he gave regarding his conversations with the foreign media that it was important to make peace with the people, with Iceland's interests and honors. In this situation, it is a heavy responsibility for government officials, and it is a sin to say that humans have been under it during the last days and weeks. Trouble at the highest. The minister of finance and the government is that he has done business with the tax industry, no matter how extensive they were, and he owned them as a general member of the General Assembly and director of the General Assembly and was to account for them here at the General Assembly. That's why I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance: How can he find out that he is the right man to lead the work to restore Iceland's international honor and to lead the peace that the president called so well?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u6	A respectable president. The problem with the discussion in the first few days after the Great Containment has been that man does just that. A senator was doing here, putting on the same shelf those who have practiced international business and have made it honest in a clear way, having their own issues on the table, and the rest of those who take advantage of companies and countries in low taxes in order to cheat on their obligations as citizens of the various states. Those who do what they have to do. A senator is maintaining the discussion and the confusion. But a problem. In fact, a senator is deeper than this because he, on his demand that the election be done immediately, is not too trustworthy, since he is obviously trying to save his own skin because he is afraid to live in the United States conference. [[Up front.]] Besides, it's--now I'm going to get peace to speak, Supreme. President. [[Up front.]] Then there is one other thing that cannot be overlooked because of what happened. A senator takes the matter deeply in this year's regard for international business. What was it like when he was a banker at the Bank and the bank's management board decided to open a branch office in Luxembourg in order to improve the bank's loans, to improve customers, to make more money exchanges, and thereby laid the groundwork of many Icelanders through the bank's branch office in Luxembourg, which has had consequences, including the results. ... fora bunchofgains. A senator? I wish that people would take advantage of it here at the council, because it is, of course, a real challenge to society under the circumstances that have developed here, to take this matter seriously. What the government has done this week is just like what the government has done. A senator tells history. First, the prime minister has stepped aside, and then we have announced an election in the fall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I will not be judged. The senator will execute the judgment of the voters in this country, which is the only proper democratic way to resolve such a situation. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u7	A respectable president. There are two ways to cope with difficult situations and the loss of confidence in Icelandic politics. They are looking for ways to understand the situation and point the way forward or to continue as a bull in a bull. We'll see what we can do. Secretary of finance prefers. My name isn't in the Panamas. I didn't have a business in Seychelles. If the highest. The minister of finance really believes that he has nothing to fear, why is he trying to postpone his creative day? Why doesn't he dare meet voters as soon as there's a call in the community? Why does he try to spend all his money instead of helping clean up Iceland's reputation by turning aside himself?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u8	V.E.G. President. I don't know what it's like to have become famous for trying to have any other money. But that's exactly what it is. A senator is doing. He's making this problem personal. He is stating that the person standing here must answer him in this way to draw my personal matters to the table. I don't think that's a good way to get through this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u9	You're the secretary of the tax business, right?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u10	You're a financial minister, right?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u11	If I could ask senators to hold back the one minute I have to answer, that would be fine. [[The president calls.]] Not only can it be said that nothing has happened but that something has to happen. This week, there's been an enormous amount of activity. Prime Minister has stepped aside. The majority of the council has been strengthened. That is a greater of 38 members of Parliament and the discussion. Congress officials are trying to set off, in fact, the conference rift that is scheduled for tomorrow. [[The president calls.]] This government is not afraid of that discussion. [[The president calls.]] Let's take it and take it out in a vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u12	Mr. President. Sunday's Cast Light Show caused the nation's citizens to have a total trust in each other. The situation is that the government is on the decline. The prime minister, who foretold two and a half days ago that the government community was strong, has stepped aside, and elections have been accelerated. But there's still a breach of trust. What you've seen at the highest. Minister and minister. The members of the management team and those who have expressed themselves on these matters are not the reaction to condemning the fact that Icelanders seem to have world record in connection with their own societies and their tax skills, not condemning the fact that elected agents have been holding property in taxes, tax taxes that are about to go beyond tax laws alone, but hiding property and other types of business practices than we think they are normal, because there are many reasons why people choose to direct their trade on the tax industry. This needs to be taken. It must be shown that the Icelandic government is willing to take that fight seriously, thereby showing that we are in the same group as other Western democratic states. V.E.G. However, a professional minister, a future prime minister, said when asked that money was obviously quite complicated in Iceland, there was nothing wrong with people being wealthy in Iceland. When asked whether it was normal to have large amounts of money in Tortolu, he said to the discarded: somewhere, the money has to be. Mr. President. I'm going to the top. Prime Minister, to continue defending it, to defend Iceland's world record in storing his property in taxes, or to expect that it will be the highest. Does the government change course and take up any struggle on this matter and meet with other Western countries in this matter? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u13	A respectable president. The government's not running out on anything. It's a very powerful part here at the council for continued government cooperation. I myself have not become prime minister. It is true that society is a trust disorder, both in politicians, in governments, and in the financial system. We are faced with a serious problem in this regard. Of course, he is without condemnation, the number of Icelanders who have chosen to place their possessions in this way in a low tax country, although legal, and there is nothing wrong when men give it in a way to taxes and obligations and are not doing it for a different purpose, legally paid money. There is, however, a great deal of effort on a large scale to hide money or not pay taxes to society. And I think we should use this opportunity here today to encourage all those who are present at Panama Documents but also elsewhere, with other banks, other companies, all of those who may have been exposed to this in recent years, to bring them home with money, to clean up their door. We also need to review in this room, both the government and the council, whether our legal environment is correct. We need a meeting here. We could have an open meeting on the Economic and Business Committee, get the head of state tax and tax investigator to come and tell them about the situation. We could take special discussions or even more. Clearly, all of us in here need to shoulder the responsibility that we need to handle this matter, as all other nations would like to do, and we are to look for role models, where it is done best. [[The president calls.]] That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u14	Mr. President. I'm sorry to call you the highest. Prime Minister, who is the prime minister of business, is hard to grasp, and who is the prime minister for the press announcements coming from the Ministry of Prime Ministers? I'd like to ask you very clearly because of the highest. A professional minister says that there is nothing wrong with people choosing to keep their assets in a low tax area. That's what the future says. Prime Minister. Is that all right? Are we not members of the international commitments involved, whether in the Norwegian field or in the OECD field, fighting against the existence of low taxes? To fight the existence of a tax host that does not automatically provide information about the property stored there? I'd like to ask the highest. First of all: Is he not sincere in combating the existence of taxes and changing what it takes to do so? It's under the roof. Ministers in particular that elected agents, those in confidential matters in the nation, go this way in spite of public policy and try to conceal it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u15	A respectable president. I don't know why. I was misunderstood by a senator. I was saying, since it's legal, under Icelandic law and international law, when it comes to law and to inform and pay their taxes, it's our job to go over whether they need to be changed. We're working with the international community in handling these matters, that they're not tax lovers, that they can't hide money. It is very important that we make the message clear from here that we gather that everyone should be held back to the community; that money should not be concealed, let alone in another way. Earlier they asked me what I meant by saying that it was difficult to have money in Iceland. I meant in the community. I meant what we've seen in Icelandic society for a long time, what we're dealing with. We need to recognize that our situation differs. [[The president calls.]] We need to make sure that we have more equations in our community. We need to make sure that we have more equations in our society than most others because we are few. [[The president calls.]] The fact is, there has been a growing equation and there has been no more in Iceland for a very long time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u16	A respectable president. I'll direct you to the highest level. A professional minister and a top manager. Prime Minister. I'd like to ask about the elephant in the living room, which is that we are gathered here, not in any ordinary situation, but in the wake of an unprecedented situation, following a total moral breakdown that has been exposed in Icelandic politics. The last days at the House of Congress and around the Assembly Hall have been a mess that, of course, reached a point last night with an amazing drama in the stages of the General Assembly and the back rooms. So now we look forward to a new version of the government. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on the basis or origin of this great wave, the depravity that people experience, is the position of those in authority, the manner in which rulers have handled their affairs, the manner in which they have dealt with the protocols, regulations, and the rules of the law. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister to a new version of a government, which we know at least the trust of the chairman of the Independence Party and the head of the Organization, but we may not know much more than that: how does he intend to arrange matters of the Minister of Moral Order? How will he follow that the Ministers of his government will handle these matters? Will a minister answer me now?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u17	A respectable president. I think it's safe to say that the beginning of a moral breakdown may be difficult to find. But it is clear that between 2004 and 2008, a lot of things were going on that many people, including me, were screaming at when it became common for people to throw money on those who had something and offered to buy something without a sale. I thought that was an abnormal situation. I don't think I'm one of those who saw the collapse, no more than many others. But I think that many of us have believed in overpowering money has not been wise. [[Up front.]] Another factor is that we have laws and rules in our community. Those who listen to them and follow them fully - they can't be called bad names for all people. There's a big difference. With regard to our ethics and interest logs at the council, it is clear that one of the works we have to do here in the next few days is a review of whether this registration is to form correctly, whether moral standards are sufficiently good, sufficiently clear, although only to inform us what they are. I think this is one of the projects we need to approach with a natural humility and understanding that there may be a need to clarify the rules better. There has been much publicity in the media, and there has been a lack of agreement about their interpretation. That, of course, is unacceptable. [[The president calls.]] It should be clear to what such rules are and how to apply them, even if they are primarily standards and must apply them individually. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u18	A respectable president. It's kind of hard for me to believe that the highest. The prospective prime minister still insists that elected representatives are only acting by law and regulations, not requiring increased morality from elected representatives. One of the biggest problems in the world. Prime Minister Sigmur Gunnlaugsson Gunugason, who is sure of that, were his interpretations of the government's ethics, whether they were valid or not, interpretations of when and what would have to be put on interest registration, etc. That's why I reiterate my question to the highest level. In view of the conditions we have experienced in the last few days under the government, a professional minister of how he intends to conduct matters of his government's ethics when he accepts his office and whether in the light of the conditions we have been experiencing in the last few days under the government, it is not possible to apologize for the state and state of state. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's kind of incomprehensible not to be done long ago. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u19	A respectable president. I thought why. A senator misconstrued my words. I said there are laws and rules that everyone needs to follow. In addition, we, who are elected agents, whether we are at the General Assembly or in the countryside or elsewhere, would be represented by a protocol and a protocol. Clearly, we need to review that matter because in these last days, many more people have come to light. As well as the media, a member of the U.S. Marshal mentioned that there are all sorts of people who mismanage these rules, think that there is something else. It's like the P.R.P. on the P.R. It's not clear enough. It is not much of a report, for it is set up as a standard, and then people have to deal with their consciences as to how they are informing about it. But it's normal for us to go through them. That's perfectly normal. And it's not only natural, it's necessary, and one aspect of showing that we have the problem of rebuilding trust in politics, politicians, after the shock here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u20	A respectable president. After the 2008 collapse, the famous economic collapse, Iceland's reputation suffered great international damage. I'd like to speak to the highest. This is only the case with financial and economic secretary. Before the collapse of the Icelanders and many abroad felt that there was a unique genius here on a financial scale. Of course, that did not turn out to be the case. Therefore, I worry about the international credibility of the country, and I pondered my priorities at the highest. Minister of that subject. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how much he appreciates Iceland's credibility and the government's credibility in things like selling banks and decommissioning capital flotation and all the projects at the highest level. The government thinks it's so important that it's on its own before the election. Also, I would like to ask the highest. Minister whether he does not consider the opinion that Iceland has followed this situation to be a concern for the project and, above all, not least of the highest. Ministers intend to recover and support Iceland's reputation as a responsible state when it comes to finances and measures at the highest level. A minister so cheerfully speaks of the need to act before the next election.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u21	Mr. President. It's asked how much I think Iceland's credibility is worth. I really don't think there's any such standard against him. The simple answer is: I believe that credibility is of immense value. It doesn't mean to sell banks for elections like what they're doing. A senator seems to be counting. It's simply wrong. The attention we now receive from the international media is immense. It can be viewed as a threat to Iceland's credibility. We can also look at the situation and think, " How can we take advantage of it? ' The opportunity to remind us that we Icelanders were first among nations to participate in signing a new standard OECD on the automatic exchange of tax information, that we have participated in with the Norwegian states making 44 contracts with low taxes state over the past years on information exchange by the tax authorities'request that we Icelanders work under CC regulations a few years ago which ensure that there is no longer any tax gain for people to have their possessions and income in zero taxes. We spend the benefits, and we leave taxes to individuals and companies that store property and income in such low taxes by means of a set of algorithms. This is an opportunity to communicate with the nation, and in the world, we Icelanders have been in a special effort to wipe out the benefits of these areas. That is why it is not true. A senator and president of the left green said that we should be in a special effort to destroy such areas. We've built our own tools to erase the benefits of them. The CFC rules established by the last administration are determined to accept the legitimate members of these regions but to take back the full benefits, not all the benefits perhaps but the sum of the benefits of trying to make them happen. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u22	A respectable president. It can't be weaved for the highest. Minister to Iceland's reputation has been seriously damaged in the wake of this case. Whether banks will be privatized during the summer or next year, it is important that the response in this country is clear and radical because Iceland has for some time had to earn its reputation after a collapse. A lot of economic growth in Iceland is undeniably because of the tourism industry, not because the authorities have done something special, except in the last term if it is done without my wanting to carve around here and now. V.E.G. This damage must be viewed by a minister in the international reputation of Iceland. Our reputation sank deeply in the collapse. These events have opened up the wounds, not only in Iceland, I think, but abroad as well. That's why I feel like I'm out at the top. A minister explains whether he does not believe that the consequences here need to be clearer to foreign authorities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u23	President. On the other hand, we are saying - this is repeated here - from the platform, it is said that these are historical reports, events without precedent, the resignation of prime ministers, and so on. I just agree with what. A senator that these are things that cause us distress, but we must live up to the responsibility that the nation has given us to deal with these issues in some way and in some balance. Now we've said the next fall will be chosen. In the meantime, the authority of those who work here will be renewed, and in the meantime the government intends to work on the progress it has set up. We've had some dance before. I'll mention one thing, even though it is, and I respect it if it doesn't quite feel good about it, we had a serious problem and a negative discussion when we got here, like, a fire business and a lot of communication disorders. Our position was successful. It's not quite similar, but I still note that the projections directed toward us back then were used to convey the right message. [[The president calls.]] We have much to contribute to the legal change and the emphasis that has been put on recent years in the debate about debinos and how to handle these issues. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u24	A respectable president. Although something is not illegal, it is not necessarily justified. I was sorry to hear the highest. A minister earlier speaks that certain things that have caused a loss of confidence and that have caused us to have been on the front pages of the world and the world media in recent days. We're a party. It seems that in Iceland, people have considered it normal and somehow justified the handling of funds to the tax industry if, as has been done in the speeches of these fine rulers, men have their own things, and are not betraying taxes. But who will prove this to us? The burden of evidence rests with those who use money as a tax covering, showing that it was not. Therefore, it is never justified, under any circumstances, to use money as a tax bill. I must also say that the demand for elections immediately is normal in the light of the loss of trust and the depravity that has occurred in our society. It's normal to have a good time. The government is only back on that requirement with a simple yes. It is not acceptable to state that there are so many big cases that people have to attack before we can enter the election. Men are still running the same programme, abdicating the past government, and there are no debates about it. There is no issue with health issues. All classes can go to work in health care. The only thing I see left behind for this government to work with, and we couldn't help them with are livestock contracts. Are people really going to create a contract board? Is that what this is all about? [[The president calls.]] No one has apologized for his actions in this matter, not for one man. [[The president calls.]] The only thing that's happened is that men have settled on chairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u25	A respectable president. I'm sorry to have to bring it back to you. A senator who served as a member of the 2007 C.E. board until 2013, most of the time as a minister or as a representative of his party. During that time, the Icelandic bank's release continued. The way we now see that there is no condemnation was continued. I told you earlier today, we have to deal with it with all available options. I haven't heard what. A senator comes here to support the letter that the current chairman of the United States sent out to all members of the United States and said that it was a mistake for the government of 2009-◯2013 to act in a way that was carried out against the public in the country, whether in Icesave or to demand to pay off the trespasss of a private bank in order to maintain the banking system. [[Up front.]] I haven't heard what. A senator talks like that. [[Up front.]] Right away. A senator comes up here and says that there's an election immediately because it doesn't matter who follows big and important matters, it's just a continuation of what's been done during the last term, I'll think about it as well. A senator, though I would like to have a different discussion today, forgot that the last government forgot that there are banks'swellings in that work, she did not tax them, did not rely on them, said to the general population in the country: you are to pay off the debts of anger. [[Why didn't you make Vigdisi...?]] We are now working on the basis of the big deal... Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, I'm sure you'll find that someday it would be interesting if you also came up and talked about the letter of the current chairman of the United States and the opinion that the government has made a mistake. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] If we can give serious consideration to the future, let us do so, but let us do so in the right way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u26	A respectable president. It's been announced today to the highest level. Ministers will become new prime minister of the country. Here we heard the humility, the tone that has been struck on the first day of that office. Nobody has to apologize. There is no need for that. It's enough just to point to the last government. Is there someone from her who had money to pay taxes? No. This is what's getting us into the world press right now. There is talk that government representatives in Iceland had money on tax bills. A respectable president. Let us keep a focus on the problem so that we can resolve it. I have to say exactly as it is, I'm sorry to see the highest. Ministers come up here and think it's just a tired massage, somewhere buzzing people. He's not taking it seriously. How's the top? Ministers to surround the people with those words? I want to know from the highest level. Minister if he intends to comply with the election demand immediately. [[The president calls.]] If not, what time will new elections be set?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u27	A respectable president. It's important how we sign up for what we're doing here in Iceland. In the past three years, we have done so in a very clear way, attracting much attention and often at the time of the world's admiration for the way we have dealt with our country again in the wake of Icesave, following taking on the victims of fallen banks. What a fine way to build trust within and outside the country! Regarding the demand for elections immediately, there are 38 more members of the council. It's a government, and we're ready to proceed and finish the big things that we feel are more important to the nation that we're going to finish before we're election. I am well aware that the government may disagree with us, and we can take a serious discussion about this. But that's our will, and there's more in the council. [[The president calls.]] We met that point by rushing elections and elections in the fall, which is based on the fact that we will complete the important issues that are in the council and we are working on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u28	A respectable president. From the highest. In 2003, for the first time and for the year 2008, the minister of financial and economic affairs was found to live a double life. On the one hand, he was a influential member of the board and, on the other, a large - scale business participants. He was chairman of the General Assembly of the United States of 2003Howand, in effect, the highest. A minister has been a walking conflict of interest, a conflict between his own interests and interests, which he was elected to protect from all the common people. Tells you the highest. This minister has been normal? V.E.G. Similarly, a minister has admitted to having been in a tens of millions of dollars of business through a tax industry at the same time as he was at the General Assembly. Does he think it's normal for an elected agent to do that? Councilman Júlíus Vífill Ingvarsson reported out as the city corpsman of the Independence Party because the Panama Documents found that he, like a financial and economic minister, had used an investment in a tax industry. A respectable president. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Did the Minister make a mistake? Did the minister lie? Does the minister believe that he has confidence in the community? I'm going to the top. Minister to follow the example of his platoon brother and to respond to the call of the bidders, which, according to the polls of the highest level, do not confirm. Minister of Bjarni son of Benediktsson and would like him to resign? I'm going to the top. Minister to resign?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u29	President. Big words are spoken. They say they lead a double life. Those who do so may be putting themselves in a position not to do what is clean. However, my involvement in business at the time made it impossible for anyone to overlook my being in charge, was it? Was it not so in 2007, in 2009, in 2013 that people had the opportunity to have that view? I'm not going to submit to values. Rather, I intend to submit to the values of voters and proselytists of the Independence Party. [[Up front.]] I receive my support to members of the Independence Party and to the government's supporters, and that is the answer to this question, hm. A senator, and there is no other answer. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u30	A respectable president. If the highest. A minister believes that he does not have to give up his actions in front of anyone other than those of the independence who are uncomfortable with him on this day here. [[Up front.]] I'd like to say the highest. In the media and elsewhere, a minister has talked about the fact that important projects are ahead of him. A person who is to lead such an assignment must have confidence. That's the highest possible. Minister not. It's as simple as that. It is only natural that he resigns and exposes someone with trust. It has been reported that at the head of Iceland and the Ministry of Iceland. Ministers are involved in an international battle against the existence of tax fish. Still, the minister still speaks as if the fact that he himself is directly involved with such activities is something acceptable. This would not be acceptable in any Western democracy and should not be acceptable in Iceland. The minister of financial and economic matters, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, must resign. It's right in front of us. Why doesn't the Minister understand?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u31	A respectable president. It has sometimes characterized politicians, such as the one who spoke here, that they thrive best in such confusion and turmoil. But I'm one of the people who prefer to follow the laws and the rules. [[Up front.]] I challenge it. A senator is simply offering a form of distrust. Then we can take it according to standard and take it into account. If I don't have the confidence of a major part of the council to serve as an office then the result is given, but if the result is otherwise a question is raised. The senator answered. Why does it come anyway? Don't you think a senator with just a mistrust plan? Can't she wait till tomorrow? Let us take this discussion at that time. Hopefully, we can agree that this discussion is the channel for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u32	A respectable president. I am convinced that the change that took place at the head of the government during these last days will lead to a better time in Icelandic society and that politics will be better. I believe that the government directors, the Supreme Court. Minister of Bjarni Benediktsson and Supreme Court. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, if any man can talk to him. There's a contact with them. They are good and upright. But the situation we are in right now is not about whether they are good or bad. It is not about whether or not they have sinned against law. It's about whether they can be trusted. Whether there's trust between the public and the government. That trust and credibility will not be renewed by reference to the Independence Party, the highest. Secretary of finance. That's why we ask: What brings a minister in the Panamas to claim that he is the best man to eliminate a currency head? What in the events of the last days shows that these two groups are the best ones to take control of the country and to determine the important work ahead of us? Not a thing created. What's going on? The minister and chairman of the Independence Party by standing in front of a nation on the steps of the House yesterday in their underwear, claiming that others are devastated, that others have come in here, and that none other people than he can rule this country? How do you think, in the position that appears in the Panamas, that they will solve the credibility, trust, and restore the credibility of the country? [[The president calls.]] In what reality are humans who claim this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u33	A respectable president. The way you try to go here is because men like dog. A senator comes up here and first defines the problem, they intend to define the problem. The problem in the eyes is what I'm talking about. A senator and many others are included. I say, the problem is people who take advantage of taxes, people who give in to social responsibility, that's the problem. [[Up front.]] That's the way it is. So it is now that those who see the benefits of themselves or their groups in mixing all those in any way connected with these matters and the others who are betraying themselves and all the political struggles are about, the CFC legislation, the information exchange agreements, our cooperation with the European countries, the 44 information exchange agreements we've made - the OECD team, it's about getting the tail in the guise suit. That's what it's all about. But if you do. A senator believes that it is a crime to follow laws and regulations, even those put here in this council, as the CC principle shows, I don't think there will ever be a good understanding between me and him. This is the problem. Perhaps it takes time for the nation to make this distinction, to distinguish the two. But that is my answer to why I believe no crime has been committed in the case of which it is referred.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u34	A respectable president. Aren't all Icelanders supposed to keep their money in Tortu? [[Taken out on: right.]] [[Up front.]] Is it not all right, then, if it is done in an honest way, paying taxes, and paying expenses? [[Up front.]] There is no option left in this situation, as the management parties say. [[Up front.]] There is no choice left for the Icelanders but to see that large in the East, because these groups will not understand anything except if people show up here in the East and show them that they are not ready for this play. It's not going to be a part of this. There is no alternative for the government opposition other than to say to these administrations: This council has no case here. No problem. What do you think you're going through this council here? Are you going to stand in front of us, like on the steps of the Assembly Hall Hall yesterday, and claim that it will be held after you have finished your Senate list? Which play is the highest. A minister's presence when he insists on this? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u35	Mr. President. Hv. A senator may find himself in his mess under the circumstances, as is the case today. I Jón the letter that was written a few years ago when... [[Up front.]] Well, it seems that it's incomprehensible, I hear from what. A senator, who is inaccessible, but I'm just pointing out that he often recovers under such circumstances. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Now it's so bad. A senator came here to see that it would be immoral to follow the CC law. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It just follows the question: Is the CFC law, which was taken up here at the council, morale? That's the question. A senator is wondering. I'm just asking men to think about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u36	President. Here we are at a time of complete noncorruption in which we have become a laughingstock in the international community, all at the hands of the present ruler. 70% of the people asked wanted to get to the top. The minister of Bjarni son of Benediktsson told off. Three percent trust the next person at the highest. Prime Minister of the Ministry now in question. I'd like to ask in the light of all the events, and in view of the fact that there is no trace of humility - no one has apologized, no one has appeared to the nation in a way that we can stop feeling like we are in some ridiculous Dario Fo drama. No, go ahead and point out someone other than yourself. I sense that it is exactly the same attitude as when a report by the General Assembly Committee was published, and some members of the Independence Party expressed themselves in ways that they could not wait for this report to stop getting involved. So I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers of the trade and fishing business whether they feel that it is enough to restore trust and loyalty to the nation and the international community. I'd like to ask you if it's the highest. Minister will agree to the threat at the highest level. The secretary of finance was with us yesterday as to the memory of the fact that if we don't run through all the Government Congress Lists, you're just going to back off. [[The point is, it was never said.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u37	A respectable president. It is not my custom to give a witness to a meeting with a group of officers, but I can say that at that meeting there was no threat. [[Up front.]] It was a conversation about the unprecedented position we are in. It was very important to have that meeting, and I thank him. As we have described, there are very many major issues that we need to resolve, matters we believe are far more national interest than going to the election. [[What business?]] I guess a lot of people can agree with us on that. Is it enough? Of course, there are unprecedented circumstances and things that have happened this week. Prime Minister has stepped aside, we have decided to complete the vital work that must be completed and then go to the election. Is that enough? Of course, we need to do more. It's a long tradition for that, at least in 2008, we can say that there was a lack of confidence in the political, political, governmental, financial system. There is still much work to be done. What we now see is that we need to deal with the way that this happens. Among other things, over the years, we have received much attention for the wonderful work we have done. We have much attention today to the news media of the world. Of course, we should take advantage of this opportunity to show how we have come into the position of being far removed from society's restoration after it fell to the ground and how we are going to handle these matters with great efficiency and determination.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u38	President. I don't feel like I've got the proper answers here. I wasn't referring to a conversation between the party groups. I was referring to what you said at your press conference on the stairs. I congratulate you on your high school board. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, why in the world he believes these classes are the only groups that can complete the ban. Tells you the highest. Ministers really that you have trust and trust to complete that job? Why can't some other classes do that? This has been done in an interpolitic cooperation at the council, so why can't it continue even if you don't have your names connected with it? It is not necessarily in behalf of national interests that the name of the current financial minister is linked to this decommission, much less the prime minister who has just set aside but not revealed himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u39	A respectable president. There are a lot of things we've been working on, and we're far from normal that we're going to finish. That's important to society. The very best of matters is the removal of problems and issues related to them. The work there has been accomplished, both on the basis of what has been won, but especially after we set up very powerful people for action in that sector. We come in with legislation adopted at the council and have worked in a clear way. [[Up front.]] Among other things, we were assigned to foreign specialists to participate. What is their judgment? They say it's unique, it's a success that will undoubtedly become a textbook example of how to deal with such situations. Here I am quoting Lee Buchheit vow. [[Up front.]] It is only natural that we finish these projects, they are far along, and we do not place the uncertainty of politics in order not to complete them at the appointed time. [[You're not sure.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u40	You're not sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u41	Mr. President. Iceland's reputation has been lost, and Iceland's face is damaged. It seems that this nation is dominated by corruption. The involvement of Icelandic politicians in the use of tax schemes that have already been revealed by Panama reveals that Icelandic politicians are greedy and corrupt, and they want others to share their share in the government. The public will not accept the fake dance that has been staged or the news that the leak brings to us and demands that a government, where both sides have been. The prime minister and secretary of finance have taken advantage of tax cover, leaving. Tax snow has cleaning equipment and hidenets that the Federal Republic of Iceland doesn't care. On Sunday, we witnessed the unprecedented exposure to the highest property. Minister of the IRS. The following day, the greatest protests occurred in the history of the country, and the following day, an amazing turn of events occurred, and Iceland became a laughingstock all over the world. During that same period, the highest took place. Marine and agricultural minister and prospective prime minister at one interview after another to protect the types of an advanced prime minister and the head of the advance team, to protect the existence of taxes and the use of politicians on them. Moreover, the problem arose. Councilmen of the Superintendent to the reporters, attacked the State Radio by coverts. V.E.G. The minister earlier said in his discussion that he was not entirely against the existence of a tax host, and I would like to ask the highest level. The minister of whether those in general agree with him on this and why he should have confidence to lead the land after his past days and his justification for the use of taxes. What's the difference between the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers and advanced prime minister? [[The president calls.]] Why is it the highest? Minister's a better option?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u42	A respectable president. I don't think it's fair that I don't pass judgment on it. I'm not used to passing judgments on my strengths or shortcomings. I try to look into my faults and try to improve them, as I hope most people will. But I believe others must judge how I will prove to be prime minister. I think it's important that we be able to take this clean and objective discussion about various factors. Hence, we cannot be judging people with huge statements, with values, about what has happened without taking into account what is legal, what has been done under Icelandic law, including the law. law as good as law. A senator participated in setting - it was here in the last government, both as a senator and a minister and an influential member of the United States and of that government. Then they'd be saying, "The law isn't good enough." We have to do something else. It has been handled, as mentioned in the discussion, and the benefits of putting money, although legally and fully informed and paying taxes - have been taken away by the major benefits. I don't like that kind of money being stored or used in such places. I think the most natural thing is that people have money in the system we have. But we also live in an international environment in which we feel that we are normally involved in international trade. Then it is not unusual for a person to have what is legal. I want to reiterate what I said here earlier today that I want to encourage all those who have money in such places to bring the money home, make them work in Icelandic economy, or for Icelandic society. If someone is betraying or hiding something, I would like to encourage them to take advantage of this opportunity, step forward, and clean up their door. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u43	Mr. President. The person who sets up a secret account on a tax scale does it for a purpose, to deceive and hide, and to avoid sharing in the community; in the way, in the hospital, in education and law enforcement. The failure to take the account to some extent is in itself an additional factor. What matters is the determination, the quest for secrecy and disillusionment, by forming a partner in a south Pacific tax fund. In Iceland, this applies to the financial minister himself. Tells you the highest. Marine and agricultural minister that it is likely to return to Iceland's confidence and credibility, whether within the country or in the eyes of the rest of the world, to the highest level. Secretary of finance took advantage of a tax claim? Tells you the highest. Ministers that the public will accept this? How does that feel in the highest part of the world? Minister to initiate a new government with such luggage?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u44	A respectable president. Come on, keep it tight. A senator saying things that are highly maligned and that he intends what is bad. I can't do that. All I can say is, if men do the law, pay taxes here, I can't say their intent was evil. On the other hand, in cases where humans have not done so, there is a need to clean up the door. It has been claimed that men were seeking this, and then there is the determination that this was the point again. In view of the vast numbers of these documents, as shown in these fine Panama documents, it is far beyond the fact that some individuals have been seeking something. Then it was much more a rule in the financial system. It is sad, of course, that at that time the financial system was like this. I hope the financial system isn't like that anymore. If the Order of the Council allows such thinking in the financial system, we need to deal with it. [[The president calls.]] But I trust well to continue this government partnership with the greater part, and it is based on the tremendous good work we have done in the past three years and to complete the big work that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u45	Mr. President. I'm enjoying it when you speak up. Financial Ministers are mainly the CFC protocols, which were established in the history of the government of the left green, and members of the U.S. Department of Economic Affairs. And the CFC rules as the same categories as those currently in power were neglected to bring about law for years before failure, to achieve major damage to Iceland, however, have recommendations from the tax authorities and the administrative committee to do so. So, at the highest. A minister is on thin ice in this defense. Second of all, I already make comments. Secretary of finance says it is wrong for the head of the left green to think that part of the international effort to combat the tax sector is closing it, because in the states of the Northern states and in the work of the Norwegian Minister, it is directly stated that a part of the struggle is turning toward reducing a more harmful tax contest, the Šscrownikrence, the name of it in Danish. Why? Because the subheadings are also problems, especially from the viewpoint of countries such as the Northerns, who need a powerful tax system to live under their own welfare systems. It would have been the highest. A financial minister may be able to do better in completing the work that had come far into the law of financing. As to this, he has received special recommendations from the Economic and Business Committee during this terms, but nothing has happened on his part for three years. My questions to the highest. Ministers are forwarding to how we react now and then are most successful to minimize the damage that Iceland's reputation has suffered on a global scale in the administration of this government. It must be the task of trying to minimize the damage, both for ourselves and beyond. First, will a major public study of all of this be started in Iceland, as other countries have decided? Second, will Panama be put in Iceland's list of low taxes, as the French have decided? Third, will the office of government tax managers and tax investigators be promoted by means of financial resources and human resources to deal with these issues? [[The president calls.]] Fourth: Will the affairs of Ministers and senators and elected representatives, potential officials, especially be examined because of their confidentiality with the public in the country if they are involved? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u46	Mr. President. It is proper not to mix too much debate about tax competition and the problems with low taxes which are new in order to hide property, taxable profits, etc. I think me and what. A senator is not on the same boat, we don't agree on international tax competition because I think it can be of the good. The EU has a range of 6.25% revenue taxes on research companies and development in Ireland. I don't think that these things will be eradicated by the forces of the northern countries. That's just what I wanted to say about that aspect of the matter. Regarding the documents in other respects, I feel that this whole matter can lead to great progress in legislation and order. We are to take advantage of this information to make needed changes in these areas. Yes, then I will listen to the demands and wishes of the institutions who will handle these matters on our behalf within the government, the government tax manager, the tax investigator and the rest of those who will process this information. If there is a request for further legal adjustments, tips for international developments we should follow or for further financial support, there will be no hesitation in my department to support that, no, no, no. It is in perfect harmony and, directly, following what I have done in my time as secretary of finance; signing the standards that OECD has published; and we participated in a special signing meeting in Berlin in 2014 to follow through on that. And that is also in full agreement with the funds I have fought for in the government and here at the General for these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u47	Mr. President. It may be said that governments in Iceland are no longer as prominent as they were in the years before the collapse of the same categories of power that are now in power. Iceland was then a disgrace to the United States, where they were trying to make Iceland an international financial center and a low tax area. In other words, this is a better situation today, as is the case at its height. The minister of finance went over here. But I don't get to thank myself for what's quite extraordinary from the highest level. Minister to have participated in signing paper with OCED. I also refer to the Norwegian team with a different approach. We can disagree politically with her, but she is still trying to reduce harmful tax competition and subheadings. I think it's the best. Secretary of the economy has stopped talking about an opportunity for Iceland, at least for the land report, for now. It's a bit bold to talk about opportunities in that regard. Is not the reality that the world's record is finally at its height. Was the late prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, always boasting? Now he finally owns a worldwide record, with three ministers in his government of the Panama Documents, several more agents, and 600 more of his people. [[The president calls.]] It's all in the same category. It's based on ideologies and politics of the Independence Party and the forward party, all of it. It is the past of the New Freedom Times that is pursuing these groups today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Sadly, it is the people who bleed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u48	A respectable president. I did not notice that I had any questions directly addressed, and this was the sighting of an empty chair of an advanced prime minister, so I have nothing to say about this speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u49	A respectable president. This has been a most interesting time of inquiry in Icelandic politics and for the whole nation. What happened here was something, but what may have been most pronounced and thought of most is what did not happen, i.e. ... topreservationofthe administration, Supreme Court. Minister of Bjarni Benediktsson and Supreme Court. The minister of Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, saw no reason to apologize for the situation that has come up, to apologize to the council, to apologize to the people for the position that has come up and is unprecedented. It is the responsibility of the government's leaders to speak to the nation at such a time. What happens then? Here, the government with such leadership is about to explain to the government opposition, to the global press, to everyone in the world that all of this is based on misunderstandings based on people paying taxes and duties, because the problem is not that Iceland's political leadership has its names in taxes. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. There is not one German politician on these papers. Why not? This is because people in Europe understand this difference. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] This is a tragic situation in which Icelandic politics is in.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u50	A respectable president. No surprise is the position of the Chairman of the Independence Party toward the island of the country. However, it is surprising that the new future prime minister of the Agency says that it is all right to have money in Tortula and other African countries. To be honest, I didn't like it, and that's why I didn't. The prime minister resigns. We must ask: Is it really the policy of the forward party that it is all right just to keep your money on the islands? You think the advance team's all right with the Happy Island? Are the members of the Assembly of the Convention here agreed with prospective prime minister that it is not wrong to keep their money in Tortula? Or do they have a problem with seeking such escape from the money they are saving on the islands of the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u51	Mr. President. Iceland enjoys an absolutely unique position among European countries as regards the share of government Ministers in the tax industry. Three Ministers in Iceland's government, which will now submit their commission, have owned a tax industry and two of them intend to continue in the Iceland government. Tomorrow, the Generals will have the opportunity to tell the people in Iceland whether they support the minister and the government, individuals who have owned a business in the tax industry. It'll be interesting to see, and I'll be waiting. Councilmen remember that the requirement for the protests out here is an election immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u52	Mr. President. I have to agree with my friends that it was sad to experience the responses of government officials here, including the prospective Supreme Court. Prime Minister. There was no humility, none. They did not apologize, even in a mild way, for one or more things. Perhaps you could say that the highest. The financial and economic minister has been in a slightly better mood today than he was on the stairs last night, but not much. Clearly, this matter must be discussed much, much better. Iceland's response now is important. After the events we've been experiencing over the past few days, we have to try to deal with it solely by sending positive messages to the rest of the world about how Iceland is going to treat this situation decently. Mr. President. I request a special discussion on this subject. We have way too short today to discuss this serious matter, and this discussion has to be done right away because the government has obviously got the mind somewhere else, hanging on the edge, getting into chairs. But there has to be a careful Iceland Action Programme on how we deal with the current situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u53	Mr. President. After listening to the discussion here, you see that nothing has changed, either in the mind of the management or in the way of the changes have been made, to the highest degree. Prime Minister, step aside and Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson will take his place. That is exactly the same mental attitude in a future new government. How sad it is for a nation and assembly to feel that they are forced to make some adjustment in their seating arrangements and not understand the gravity of this gravely serious matter, both within the country and abroad! And to make a comparison of our working well in foreign lands when the eruption occurred and there is an opportunity in this regard for the world. It's amazing where people are in the discussion. [[The president calls.]] The people demand that the government leave immediately because of the loss of trust and lack of trust. [[The president calls.]] She's got to sense the time of her being inspected.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u54	A respectable president. During this unprepared question period earlier, I addressed very specific questions to the highest level. Secretary of finance, including not only should all Icelanders keep their money in Tortitol. I found no answer to that question, only some vague muttering about an article I wrote ten or eleven years ago about asking the presidents of a company I was in charge of not laying down 110 different positions of employment. I'm wondering what the highest part is. A financial minister will agree by comparing complete lack of trust, the fact that he is in the center of the Panama Documents' circle, with one such branch. I refuse, a respectable president, and want it to be written in the Senate, that it is compared in some way, and that there is something questionable about the fact that men tried to keep people from being dumped for more than a decade, when there was no doubt in the journey. I don't know what the hell's going on. The minister of finance goes along with this kind of bullshit in a speech chair. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u55	Mr. President. Yesterday we had some announcements waiting until after night. V.E.G. The secretary of finance and economics was a failure, but at the same time a coven, and very understated, saying, "There are 38 votes behind this. A suggestion for distrust will be made. I'm going to hope that the members of the major body of Congress who express themselves here today are not at all satisfied with distrust so that we can make an election. He threatened the government, that's just the way it is. He can't let go. He has given the nation war. He is at war with his people, standing on the Eastfield day after day. The government has a mastery of corruption. That is how Bjarni Benediktsson feels or does not. And the highest. The prime minister who is still active will continue to serve as a senator. A respectable president. If you are a member of these documents and are no longer prime minister, how can you continue to sit as a member of the body? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And Bjarni Benediktsson's son did not answer that question earlier. [[The president calls.]] Will he be responsible for the investigation of the national rulers through these Panama documents? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u56	A respectable president. When there is no humility and regret, I wondered what men will do with these changes. Just nobody. This was shown in the discussion earlier. It is absolutely clear that men have decided to go on some justification expedition, take one man from this place, and put him into the hall and make him the shadow manager of the government, but otherwise nothing is changed. They are the same. We face a problem. I'm not sure that a council can continue in this way and with the dissatisfaction that is on the outside and with the eyes of the world's press on us. A respectable president. It's claimed that there's a difference, you can make a difference between people and people like that, people like you, A and B, who take money for a tax bill. That may well be so. The fact is, however, that the burden of evidence is always for those who do so to show whether they have paid their taxes or not. I think it's a question. þm. Róbert Marshall's about why we don't all go there justified, right? Because what do you think would happen to the Icelandic economy if all the money went to Tortola? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u57	Mr. President. After striking news on Sunday evenings of the use of politicians on taxes, there was a lot of protesters who immediately demanded an election that saved Iceland's appearance and Iceland's eyes in the eyes of the rest of the world. What happened next drew the point back down. Instead of stepping away, all the government, and allowing the nation to choose a new one, facelifts are made. Prime Minister distributed to sea transport and agricultural ministers. The deputy vice president of the advance party replaces the chairman with nothing else. The Icelandic government has a financial and economic minister who has benefited from a tax bill. [[The president calls.]] This can't work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u58	Mr. President. It's not often that I agree with you. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who has been convinced of this discussion and the events of the past few days that she is absolutely right when she says it's right to go to Congress without delay. There has been a political and political crisis caused by the government in these last days. We have hardly known if there is a prime minister in the country or who it is. This high Council has not been possible for days until now, and there has been no program of mistrust in the Ministry of Sigmundur, Gunnlaugsson Gunalsson. V.E.G. The minister of finance described it so earlier that the trust that will become the highest level of trust. The prime minister called it, in effect, something like a volcanic eruption and a disaster. I think you're right. Under these circumstances, peace cannot be brought together unless the nation's voice is allowed to sound, and that is why I believe that in order to establish peace, in order to ensure that the power elements are bound to live up to their family of peace, they should allow the nation to decide the outcome in elections that will be held as early as possible whether this government continues or whether it will be cast into the eye of history. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u59	President. We have a lot of uncertainty. Despite the government's declarations that there has to be stability, there has been great instability in this country on their invitation. I think that the reason the national rulers want to wait for elections is because they want to wait for the anger of the public to cool off. That's the only reason. They do not need to be in charge of carrying on with the work that has been done in a parapolitic partnership and perhaps the only ones who can handle it are themselves because there is a conflict between the governments. I think it's very important that we learn from the collapse. One of the things mentioned was that we should stop applying the letter and try to understand the spirit of the law. To say that something is legal, but it is not immoral today and that the general public has shown by coming here to a far greater extent than ever before in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I would like to thank the public for showing the civil rights he has in an act that he has to protest an intolerable state. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u60	V.E.G. President. The answers are as good as possible. Ministers have brought them today have been a tremendous disappointment. There's been no efforts to condemn the fact that Iceland is likely to have a worldwide record of having tax bills. V.E.G. Secretary of the economy is talking about important work that needs to be done and that our country's credibility is worth a lot. A respectable president. If the highest. Of course, a minister would have meant it if he had stepped aside and claimed that he was a minister long ago. It is important to start a thorough investigation of tax taxes and to tighten laws so that valuables can not be taken out of the country. After the answers given here today, I don't trust these men to start a study like that. Hence, a form of distrust must be established on the government and put out as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]] We have to vote right away. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u61	A respectable president. I think all the points that have been shown in the debate today are incredibly valid and important. There's one thing I'd like to mention, and I think it's a lot of concern, that's the efficacy that's been going on with the parish members and the Independence Party. With activity, it can be very dangerous, and it can be the worship of leaders. It has been a long time since the emperor was exposed to any clothing. However, the time it took the government parties and perhaps the forward party to take action was far too long and it has caused us harm. Yet, I would like to commend my friends for their late stand in Akureyri. But the efficiency in politics is not meant to be tolerated. This leader worship must also cease. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] This may be an extra point in the big context, but I have to say, a respectable president, that I've given up the power that's been going on here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u62	Mr. President. It's kind of incomprehensible to see that there should be a new government here in the country, the Ministry of Sigurður the son of Jóhannsson, with a minister inside a table who had a business in the tax industry. We live in that state at this time. The secretary of finance has had such a business. V.E.G. The secretary of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party are going to continue as minister of finance in the Iceland government. When asked questions about his history, he will be amazed at the people who ask, and he also points out that the problem is not to be made personal. I would like to point out, Mr. President, that it is a great problem for Iceland to have a financial minister who has kept his assets in the tax industry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u63	Mr. President. I come up here to express great sadness at the beginning of the future presidents of the government. They did not intend to stand here and repent and apologize for the fare we have been offered during the last days. It's below all the caves. There is no humility or anything in these men. I have encouraged it from the very beginning, and I remember that at the top of my policy debate. Then, in the fall of 2013, I challenged him for humility and for consideration of all views, including those who did not choose him. But he's completely ignored it, unfortunately. I'd also like to say, though it's none of my business to say what kind of senators are doing, I feel that their leader's conduct toward them is quite different. It's totally incomprehensible to me that they follow him in everything. The good people I have been privileged to serve here for three years do not deserve to know how they are treated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u64	President. I'd like to ask the President to secure it, if the government is to require her to complete Congress and continue with full confidence in their work, only a quarter of the nation trusts this government, that we get a precise date. I know that the same is true of all members of the government opposition and no doubt members of the government. I'd also like to point out what I've been discussing in the past, which I find so serious, that it's said that it's all right, that it's legal to have your assets in the tax industry, and it's hard to have money in Iceland. President. Although all Icelanders would want to take their possessions into a tax field, it is just so that a lot more people will have trouble because they don't have money, not because they have so much of it that they don't know what to do with them. Let us keep that in mind. The fact that ministers in the government who are all over themselves come and talk as if it were a personal thing to have property in taxes when fighting against the existence of tax thieves is, of course, a preposterous hearing and puts down the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u65	Mr. President. That's the government's view of taxes. V.E.G. In a speech, a professional minister, prospective prime minister, said that there is nothing wrong with keeping money in a low tax area. It's just a big deal for communities. There's a lot to it. One thing that has been going on for decades before the collapse is that the ruling groups now in power and power did nothing to prevent it. Therefore, it has been maintained that money owners in this country, capitalized in this country, made up of this country, have placed their money in taxes. There's nothing wrong with that but oops! "It was discovered because the Panamas were published. Then they try to make themselves more painting by sideding in their seats with the same view. [[The president calls.]] This is not the condition of this nation, and the common people do not accept it, because there are two nations in this country. We need to get the government away from the capital. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-07-93.u66	Mr. President. When peace in the community is as decisive as it is today, the powers of the Council and the government must work to restore peace and harmony. V.E.G. A prospective prime minister is an imperfect man who will surely like most and all prime minister do their best, but he must realize that his primary duty now is to try to find ways to reconcile society. Then I recall that in the summer of 2004, there was a great storm. Then, an independent group of forward governments made a report on the family of peace in the community. As a result, that government withdrew the media law, allowing the government night and night to cease demanding government resignation. It's going to be the highest. prospective prime minister to ask himself: " What is the best way to calm down the waves? Is it creating a government that has the lowest support any government has ever enjoyed in the beginning of the career? Is it to form a government that enjoys a total of 28%? Of course not. Best of all. The prospective prime minister may agree that the people are now to speak and propose an election proposal. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We will see to it that before they are taken care of, what is most necessary regarding the development of the broilers will be taken care of. [[The president calls.]]
