ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u1	Madam President. As noted in the previous votes, members of the council supported the left green reduction in insurance, but they make significant comments on both the effects of this bill's approval of a government fund's income plan, diminishing it by 3 billion, as well as the effect this has on income balance, since it is mainly useful to more lucrative households and more than men. So even though we have a brief reduction in insurance fees, we are having a full payment on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u2	V.E.G. President. As soon as we've raised the chair here, I'm going to say that I support this bill in spite of the bait I described at 2nd. ... wouldbeon the 9th and 10th. The bill. Unfortunately, the Economic and Business Committee did not have time to call the parties and go through the points they make comments on. In my conversations with several members of the Economic and Business Committee, I have been assured that if something needs to be corrected by these laws or a new tape worm in the fall, it will be taken up and considered, the benefits and defects of the business committee, so those people who have conflicted views on this matter will have the opportunity to appear before the committee and describe their views. As I'm saying, there's a lot of things in this bill that I'm holding up in spite of these baits, and I'm going to vote with the bill at 3rd. All of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u3	A respectable president. I'm glad we're accepting this important matter. In this context, I make it clear that this is the end of a year's work with a number of people inside the politics, outside the litigation categories, institutions, conferences, etc. Thank you very much for your ex-fiancée. Minister of state, please. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, huh? paritaprevir The jealous son of Jónasson, former Minister of Internal Affairs, for a job that began at his time, the highest. Secretary of the state of Olfu Nordal and the highest. The Harðardóttir Hardydóttir's welfare minister for their access to this matter. Then, in particular, I would like to thank members of the council who served in a transnational Parliamentary Committee on the matter and suggest that the Senate Committee continue to operate and follow up the seminary. It is impossible to stress, too, that the legal rights of this law require that the jury be properly financed and carefully cared for by the European Commission. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u4	A respectable president. I'm not going to repeat my warning here that I've mentioned before. I'd like to, however, to mention that in terms of the changes in the budget. 1420 that we have already voted for the articles that are discussed, Article 114 and Article 115. The bill. We've already voted with these articles, including the one standing here. However, the suggestion that these two articles will take effect immediately rather than at the next year. A big part of my confidence that I will vote with the whole bill is the fact that the value is at next year's tournament. So I'm going to sit by the vote on the shape of change. 1420, but reiterate that we have already voted for these two articles, including the one here. Finally, I just rejoice, as others have done, that we have come to this place to congratulate the council on this process. May they occur more frequently. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u5	Madam President. I agree with the two of them. The members of the council here have spoken about these matters and agree with the last speaker in terms of a vote for a change proposal as presented here in Article 114 and Article 115. We left greens to sit by those articles, and they've already paid themselves a vote in the big bill as presented here, not in the sort of change that is being proposed. It is most important in this case that there will continue to be some follow-up in the shape of the Senate committee, where it will be possible to follow up on the implementation of the law. I think that's very important, considering that this is the first place in the world where the law isn't clear enough around it and that it's not good enough. We're trying to fix the box, but it is really important to be followed by money and to continue surveillance by the Parliamentary Committee, which knows the matter quite well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u6	President. Pirata's senators will be sitting by like others here who have expressed themselves about the time-realization of values. I wanted so much to emphasize it, as was shown in a speech explanation when we were here with this in 2 Timothy 3: 1. ... thatthe Council of Congress will continue with follow-up so that there can be any indication if there is a prejudicial basis for the operation of the law. I've worked very hard with immigrants and refugees, and I have to say that the efforts to handle these matters in humanitarian ways in the community are inexplicably lacking in the community. What I like about work that has happened at the council, and we plan on these laws and the law is that I experience the spirit of humanity. We didn't get everything we want to go as far as possible to show human kindness in law and deed, but we're pretty close to it, so I'd like to wish for a House of Congress and all those who have been involved in this work to be happy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u7	A respectable president. It's a pleasure that this bill is becoming a law. All I wanted to do was to come to a small part at the end of the bill, which has to do with increased opportunities and rights for people of foreign origin to come here and work. Various companies have shown that it has been difficult and difficult to get into this country of foreign experts, so changes in this bill were being made in good consultation with the labour market partners again. What a joy it is to see the solidarity of the changes that will strengthen the workforce in the future!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u8	V.E.G. President. I reiterate my pleasure that we are voting on this bill that now becomes a law. I agree with the encouragement that has been provided by many members of the local Parliament on this matter, that the project in preparation of the bill and the tremendous consultation and conversation that took place during the preparation and knowledge that has become new in larger work projects on future legislation. It's possible, we can do it. Congratulations, everyone. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u9	Madam President. I reiterate my gratitude to those who came to this matter. Thanks to that, I failed. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for her work, especially the Chairman. I know we realize what's happened to the seminary but maybe not all of us realize what we're doing here is taking a huge, important step, that Iceland is approaching these projects in a way that everyone in this room is not necessarily happy. It is an amazing task, especially in a language that causes such great obstacles and difficulties in many places. Then I reiterate my opinion of this class, which is that these matters were no longer defined as problems. Diversity is an opportunity, polymorphism is something that all communities should wish to have. To me, the worst form of fate is when we are going to make a decision about where people want to move or where to live. To me, this huge freedom issue, huge solidarity, and huge strides for Iceland are taking the lead in this category of languages. Congratulations on that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u10	Madam President. We're building a fourth housing bill at the top. The legal social and housing minister, and I congratulate her on that. During the last term, the goal was to create one system of housing benefits instead of interest payments and rent payments. Now we are taking steps to increase the support of tenants, even though he may not yet attain to the same degree of growth. In addition, we are taking an important step in which our rural communities were responsible for special housing support, and it is very important that there is a social justice issue for all the inhabitants of the country, that they have the right to such support from their rural communities. I finally thank you. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, who was the senior speaker of the case, as well as the general camp bill, for being awakened and asleep over the past few months. Thank you and thank you to the welfare committee for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u11	V.E.G. President. I come up here to thank you. The welfare committee for all the work and the chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg Ingadóttir, for directing the Commission through all these bills. I thank all the agents involved in the processing of these matters. This is a very important matter, an improvement in housing for tenants, and a great improvement. The changes that took place. The welfare committee handled the situation, including to contribute more fully to these support to earning tenants without sacrificing the objective of the bill to cover a wider income group than expected in the current rent - rent system. Finally, I wish for the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs for Eygló Harðardóttir Congrats that this important matter is becoming a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u12	A respectable president. Three prime radios have brought in the council on this matter. With the improvements, with the changes. The welfare committee has certainly met the very good comments that were made in the progress of the council. Here's a middle route and a compromise. In particular, I would like to mention how pleasant it is that rural society has come to agree that special housing support on the basis of individual social circumstances will be now mandatory in all rural communities, that rural communities will also have consistent rules regarding social housing waiting lists, and will begin to support particularly those under 18 years of age who need to live away from their parents'homes for study. Besides, I'd like to mention that a special committee will be set up to monitor the changes we're going through now and hopefully lead to everything we hope to happen with these changes that will remain in good cooperation. [[The president calls.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u13	A respectable president. Here we are agreeing to a very important case which will lead to a simpler and more efficient work environment for all of us in this country at the rate of the annual bill and the annual bill for over 80% of our companies. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. The Economic and Business Committee for a great job on this matter. I especially want to thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, who led the case, for his hard work and hard work in this language, is rather complex and complex but will achieve good results and good effects for the Icelandic economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u14	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a panel of committees from a job board with a change to a bill to correct a change in fish control law, No. 116/? 2006, with subsequent changes (based on local and extended temporary protocols). The nominee's opinion is self-explanatory. Ólafsdóttir and Kristján L. Möller were absent from the case, but the committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with some changes. The main change, i.e. the newer in the change is after 4. A new article, as follows: The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: A minister is allowed to withdraw up to 5.3% from the permissible mass limit of macroil by macrotic Icelandic ships in 2017 and the measures specified in 5 mg. Section 8. The law on fishing year 2016/2017. The secretary is allowed to divide this amount of macroil into other species in order to ensure species composition of the source by 6 mg. Section 8. The law. Under the writings of Jón Gunnarsson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Egilsdóttir Eilsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u15	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend the members of the J. Sigfússon's Committee of Health, which is carried out by all the committees, while Steingrímur J. Sigfugson writes on notice. The matter is large and is about managing or placing maximum pay in the system and trying to install a particular service control. I'd like to start, so I won't forget to thank you for very good cooperation on the committee as well as thank you for the Supreme Committee. A health minister for his approach to committees needed to give further explanation at the end of the discussion. This suggests changes to the legal requirements of health insurance and health care insurance. The primary objective is to make sure that the most ill will not pay the high amount of money for health care that we will not be able to handle as we are, unfortunately, have recently seen examples in society. In this conference, it can be said that the background is listed to determine if medical, pharmaceutical, physical, and medical costs and other medical costs could be met under one subsidive and decontractive process. The chairman of that committee was a former senator and our companion here, Pétur H. Blöndal. Of course, when we discuss this matter, it is proper to keep Jehovah's memory in check. Children with a reference from a health - care professional are expected to pay no price for coming to a specialised doctor outside the hospital and at the hospital walk ward. The maximum monthly pay for health care will generally be 33.600, with a total of 22,400 K. for the elderly, for the disability and for the children. So there are two groups. The bill also discusses references and reference systems, and it has the authority to pay a higher price or to determine a higher price for the services of an independent healthcare professional if it is applied without reference from a clinic or family physician. We discussed this well on the committee, but we believe that health care is important to the health care of patients at all times, since it is generally the best way to direct patients in the right service, and that is the way it should be, the best use of financial resources to manage the ministry in this way. That's what we're looking at in the Committee. On the other hand, we realized the need to improve health care so that she can handle this role and discuss it considerably on the job at the committee and on the committee's opinion. Forethought is the arrangement for strengthening health care. Here is a plagiarization proposal for a financial plan for the course of 2017/2021, a member of Congress. Thereby, costs to health care outside the hospital are expected to increase by nearly 4.6 billion starting in 2016, or by 12%. It is clear that in the suggestion there is a measure of room for advanced health care. On the other hand, the bill, its legalization, follows certain tasks that need to be strengthened to complete. Therefore, it was the opinion of the Committee that this year's medical care is needed to prepare for the production of the bill. This could be done by increasing the number of doctors, nurses, and helping the whole system to be ready for its specific action, but I would like to draw immediate attention to suggesting that we change the recording so that the law takes effect on February 1, 2017, so that it can be properly prepared in the system. It was quite clear to the Committee that the funds would not reach all health - care facilities. Thus, dentists, psychology services, travel costs, and aid tools are not within this system. On the committee, we discussed this. We realize that in the future there will be more groups that will fall under this roof as well as that the medication system and this system will fit into one future payment system. But here it is still taking the step that the medical, occupational, and speech training is under the general system. The Ministry reported that the aim is to place more types of health care under the system. So the course has come, it is heading in the right direction, but no larger steps can be taken at this time. But there is a clear understanding of the minds of people, at least in the Ministry and on the welfare committee. We discussed quite a few of the maximum fees that are presented in accordance with the Regulation on the payment of health insurance. The committee agreed that this price is too high, especially since it does not cover all the medical costs. But it is clear that in order to increase or reduce the maximum price, more money is needed to be paid. We discussed this and came to the end of the review of the health minister's office at a meeting to discuss the financial side in particular. The minister told us about his plans for providing health care. This is, in effect, twofold, the strength of health care to prepare the subject and to produce these changes, and then the self - roofing process and the cost of health care. This year, the minister reported on programs for health support, the ideas on the proliferation of doctors and nurses at the health care clinic, and the ideas of strengthening the mental - health services of the health professionals in harmony with the new disposal policies and procedures of mental health care that we agreed on in the council not long ago. The estimated cost of such measures is between 300 and 1,400 million. K. and it is clear to our committees that these are funds that need to come to the next budget. In addition, the minister's case stated that the patient's payment will be lower than expected in the aforementioned Regulation. At this point it cannot be predicted exactly which calculation of the potential results will lead to us, but the minister considered it proper to aim for a maximum health insurance budget to be no more than 50,000 dollars. every year. The committee welcomed these proclamations by the minister, and this is shown in the committee's opinion. We believe that the increase in funds will come in the budget for this year to prepare health care for the changes and then to the budgets of 2017, resulting in the strengthening of health care, and the maximum health care paid by health care providers will not exceed 50,000. There's a couple of adjustments made, I'd been reviewing the changes in the validation proposals, but other suggestions made myself clear, and I guess that's what I'm doing. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who writes in advance this statement, will explain to them in advance. Þorvarðardóttir of the Kjerúlf, signed by the committee, was absent at the dean, but uses the rules of engagement to sign. Others snarl. The members of Parliament are the ones who sign here, Ingadóttir Ingibjörg, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Arnardóttir Lára Eagledótttir, Páll Valur Björnsson, Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsóttir. We hope that the bill will be approved by the changes presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u16	Madam President. As noted by one authority in advance, I write under the committee opinion, but I support this matter, and in any of the main matters, I am very pleased with the landing. On the other hand, the prefect is that the assurance of financing the system change and the preparation of the health care tools involved, and I am right to keep my views on how to use them to achieve the fair distribution goals in these materials. Let me find out about that later. When the bill came up, some presidents, some of them, were in trouble because there are two very good things I'd like to celebrate, and we're at the left-green party. It is one thing to take steps, not to be large or very powerful, but to take the first steps, into a proper management or reference system in the Icelandic medical system, which would have been better done decades ago and built up so that in the spirit of the medical law, as it has been for a long time, there would be the basis for health care to form the first site in the medical system. It would be soared and would point forward to further, more specialized, more expensive measures as the need was. It has not been successful in any measure or at least not sufficiently rich. It was there, and it made a man happy. Second, and, of course, to put roofs on the unorthodox expense that those suffer from having to spend much time with health care, long - suffering, or with certain diseases, and can go beyond control. It has been totally unacceptable how different the materials are distributed and almost randomly, depending on the disease or the circumstances in which people come out of their relationship with the system. That was good. Sadly, though, it was apparent that if there were no money to produce a change, it would be very burdensome for a very large number of people who took the cost of roofing and the cost being cut off by the thousands of users who have carried very much cost. Worse still, an opinion revealed that the elderly and the poor would make up a substantial amount of money, about a billion dollars or more. On the other hand, it was so quickly revealed that those who knew that the health care is extremely poor and are limited in design to succeed in this new and enhanced role. This became more evident in the committee and after the arrivals. It's not a secret even. These difficult health care facilities tried to use others to kill the case, that this was the most delirium, since health care was out of control and therefore became a threat. [[Who are they?]] In a town alone, there were more than some independent, professional experts. Moving forward, even holding agencies at the highest. A health minister who rather addressed them reasoning than the other. [[Up front.]] Happily, however, the welfare committee formed a convergence to avoid being motivated by this, and we continued to discuss the matter and discuss it, and we began to pass messages to them, of course, that it would not succeed in the increase in funds from both sides. It would be far too heavy to take 1,200,500,000 million. K. costs, if not more, that could be achieved by posting roofs, even though they were as high as ninety-five thoust. K. In a year that would be distributed to the common users, and a substantial proportion of them occurred in senile and microenergy pensioners. So it was our position, my member of the council of the left green, that we could not handle the situation in the same situation. That's what we did. Healthcare secretary thoroughly clear as well as within the committee. We were trapped in this stand. Thus, it was true that last night we had chosen that the matter would not be settled and that we would wait for the autumn. The piranha too stood firm for this stand. But yesterday, after quite serious encounters, including me and a prominent, and the highest, was quite dramatic. A health minister, and then the highest. A health minister entered the committee was born with a good conclusion that by this year there would be 300◯400 million. K. magazines into the clinic to prepare immediately the necessary measures, human resources, and organization that would be needed to ensure that it would take full advantage of this role and that it would succeed. The problem of accepting the reference without the funds just because of the prince's hand, the danger of it would have been that it would not have given enough, that health care had not handled it properly, even if one tried to use telephone service and other such methods. It is of infinite importance that this work succeeds when it is started, for it will be enough to try to chew it down. [[To the point, not Essekers.]] That's why it needs to be successful. It's a pleasure to have a guarantee that in the fall, there will be 300 to 4,400 million. K. A pot into the case as the highest. A health minister can arrange for the health care professionals where the need is most and waits for home doctors to interview in the longest part, etc., so that health care will be readily available to manage this on February 1. We also felt that we have a reasonable guarantee that in 2017 budgets, there will be additional funds into the suit that is sufficient to prevent the overall cost of over 50 of yours. Q, and the elderly and the elderly pay 2/3 of it or its value in new funds. I emphasize, Madam President, that I would rather look at the commitment, the promise, the promise of a new one if the highest. The health minister is listening, as is the value of reaching the roof to 50 of you. K. If it was found that the mixed way would, in spite of all the better it would be to distribute these burdens, it would be to say that the discounting of the elderly and the disability would not only be 1/3 but half and we would use a larger portion of the funds on what might result in the mass roof being 54 of you. K. or something like that, you might want to look at it. There are these things that I think would be wise to consider, so we're trying to get the best results. But I believe we have ample guarantees that this will work, in line with the rendering at the bottom of the committee, by permission of the president: ▪ The New Year's budget is a celebration of the Minister's declaration, and it feels as if he is convinced that raising funds will come to this year's budget - we are talking about 300, 400 million into the medical clinic - ▪ and the budgets of 2017, resulting in the support of health care and maximum health care payments for health care for the health - care practitioner not to exceed 50,000. a year It is an account that we can round so well that we can easily figure out that it will be given correctly, i.e. that they paid off. Madam President. As a result, this is a very important explanation of the law, an explanation in the sense that it is not explaining an individual law. Rather, it is explaining the basis of the law and the promises it had when it was concluded and sent into the chamber, recommending that it be brief and accepted. But first and last, it is a political choice in the transverse agreement of all categories that this is the way it should be and when the new system starts at the beginning of the next year. What a joy that is! I think it may be so, Madam President, and allow me to become a bit prophetic, not necessarily prophetic, but prophetlike, that we are entering a major turning point in Icelandic health history, but many realize it. [[Up front.]] The controversial and long-time reference duties that have been tried and previously tried - and they know all about it, the kids, what it can take into practice that knows the history of that class - are entering and implementing the parapolitic cooperation of all classes. It's pretty historic. Of course, I commend the highest. The minister of the health of Kristján Þór the son of Júlíusson for his courage in this matter, and for his part in it. I'd like to say that a welfare committee deserves some credit, and we, who stood firm on our feet and then you speak in human languages and you're not going around a hot pavilion with it, of course, helped the highest level. Ministers of health to extract money from the funds needed to make this acceptable. It's just saying in English what happened here. I'm pleased with the conclusion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u17	Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon now has little to teach others about the history of the reference system and how difficult it is to get through. I believe that the result is very good, and it can be built on top of it. So I come up here that we didn't all agree when this case first came in to see if it was winter setting. I'm going to go back to 1st. The case in which I took absolutely to the point where I was concerned and told that I saw in this bill system that could truly be used, and I was happy with the bill, and I specifically declared it to the highest level. A health minister should be commended for bringing in a reference system. Me and what. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon has been fighting this in one way or another for decades. I think there's a complete key to achieving the health benefits, and that's what's happening with this. I originally said that, in practice, the system was the highest level. A minister would be to bring in very good, just to correct some internal discrepancies, and then he would need what the opposition has accomplished for much effort and ease, as well as for the highest will. Health Minister, more money on the system. I got them out by saying, as I'm going to do now, that then, when a new government and a friender in this community takes over, soon after the next election, this system can be used and continued in the course of government cooperation with the Supreme Court. A health minister has managed the work of the committee, i.e. bringing more money into this, because the frame that is drawn up is like an old jar could have done it himself. Then I am referring not only to myself but to one of the very ancients. Healthcare minister, Sighvatur Björgvinsson. [[The president calls.]] You see, the system's pretty good that you can find in the bill, and it's all going very well. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to thank my comrades on the government side of the committee, especially why. A senator and a member of minn party, Sigrídíi Iurbía, for their work, but the highest. Similarly, a minister should thank and thank for his understanding of the matter and of cooperation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u18	Madam President. In itself, it was directed against him. Not my speech by a senator. The discussion was excellent, and I confirmed it. A senator was interested in this matter immediately at the time of the 1st. and I'm not going to start rephraseing and interpret for their errors their own story about the reference system. I think we can all be very happy with pleasures. I agree with that. Senator. This is a good stage, and I trust those who were the most critical of the bill as it turned out, I mention it specifically to the Micro-Present Society and such members who considered it to be too burdensome for their members, Iceland's Public Association, send in a very similar review where it warned that this would be very burdensome for the count of low-invent families, will now make up with the situation and see that it has become all the same and much better if the roofs don't exceed 50 you. K. and monthly wash up only 43/4,500 The matter has made remarkable progress. What I want to say about meditation. Skarphéðinsson I'm considering this as a very important and historical step in the right direction, in the same direction as the roof for the cost of medicine. What lies ahead, and in fact, it is being offered in part in a committee study, moving the rest of these costs into the roof, the Psychological Services, the aid tools, the travel costs for attendance of community - care services, and so that the roofs cover all this health - related costs, and at the end of each, to combine the roofs for medical costs and medical costs for one total cost for a year or more so that it would be covered one year at least, so we can set the total score for what and one person may have to pay within one year and speak in the general health system. [[The president calls.]] It's supposed to be the ultimate goal, and we're supposed to reach it in one to two years from now on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u19	A respectable president. I only want to begin with the comments of which. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon describes the solution to the problem. There I feel a little inclined toward all those who came to the conclusion. There is good reason to thank the head of the welfare committee and the head of the case, why. Councilmen Ingadóttir Ingjörgvarvedóttir and Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir, who had actually worked days and nights in this case. Thanks mainly to the two, an agreement was reached in the case. But, of course, I can thank the highest. Healthcare Ministers also for meeting the very firm wishes of the management body on the committee and taking sides, so that it is said in human language, because when the bill originally came into the council, we criticized it very strongly, the government council members, and especially the one here, that it was really a transfer system, it would be only assumed to move from one group of patients to another. It was because they needed money with these measures and specifically stated in a paper with the bill that they were not expected to change the overall cost of the payment system. We immediately built a very rigid load of caution. Then we were strengthened in the faith when guests began to appear before the committee and describe the subsidiary of the health care and the care of the health care providers and any problems for the health - care providers to plan to live up to a reference system that is, in fact, essential for this to be done properly. It was also very critical of that, for example. Psychological costs, dentists, travel expenses, and aid tools would not be involved. Since the first talk in this matter, the organization has emphasized the need for more money into the system and the need for further arrangements to make this acceptable. Then, on occasion, however, it becomes a thank - you - and - pleasure matter, that the greater part listened to it. There were a lot of conversations between many, and those conversations were not just yesterday, but the intervening gaps took place. paritaprevir I'm sure Brá of the Konráðsdóttir's fiancée was what decided, and I thank her for that, and the hard work of the head of the welfare committee, anyway. paritaprevir The Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir. I thank them both and the Minister. Now we are in a very different position, looking up at a whole different picture than we did when it was originally spoken. A minister has met with the Committee and said that it will be 300 to 4,400 million. K. supplementation into the system. This means that the roof of payment, the expense roof that was expected to be 90 yards. K., and we felt naturally too high, will turn down to 50 of you. K. in a year much more acceptable than what is coming. On that grounds, a respectable president, I am with us at this committee party, and we members of the United States are thus a follower and are determined to give them a course. As we have always said, the health costs are very important. In recent years, it has been indistinguishable, and we have had tragic stories about people with advanced health problems who have taken hundreds of thousands of dollars for medical expenses. Clearly, all reasonable people see the need to meet that challenge. We have to get on a wide range in terms of developing a moral health system that takes into account the public interest and is designed to enable citizens, regardless of their habitat or economic situation, to benefit from the best available health care, as the patient law suggests. We must be able to fulfill that promise. That, of course, is the goal. Then the Conspiracy will be able to get to the government after the next election, which we should hope to give a god, we can continue to fix and improve this system, because we are going to have free health care. That's the goal. On the contrary, these are taking a good step, and no one is harmed by the changes being made, laying a good foundation for what hopefully will be the rest; health - free services.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u20	Madam President. I truly agree with the last words. Let us hope that we are taking a considerable step toward the condition of health - care units. But because of the word "head. " I don't think I'm the kind of person I've done as much as I did when I simply traced how close this was here yesterday until the evening, how close the matter was, and how late the conclusion was born, and the date of yesterday's meeting in that relationship. I told the truth in the subject, that, luckily, it had been done, but it was shown at the 11th hour when the situation broke and realized that it would succeed in this spring, which, of course, is of great importance. Chairman of the Committee, head of the committee, the smaller part of the committee, the greater part of the committee. Minister, everyone deserves to be thanked for that contribution. So I don't want to be objected to that I was taking credit for one or no one by my comments, I hope that I didn't get divorced that way, and I wasn't supposed to get it that way because I don't want to. I don't intend to take part in this business, I don't think I need it, and I haven't put anything on my Facebook page, but I don't think any of that out. [[Take it up: You've got to start it...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u21	Madam President. Since collapse, there has been a great conflict in Icelandic politics. This has led to the fact that there have been times when political involvement has been kind of intense. I'm going to say as a member of the health committee that in the last few weeks and the cooperation we've had there, I remember again why it's so fun to be in politics when we can join together to help and improve our community. The manager of the case, huh? paritaprevir UnnurBrá the Konráðsdóttir of Consecret, took advantage of it. I'm not going to repeat that, but I'm going to go over sharing patients in Iceland at health costs is too much. The bill is intended to reduce the massive cost of a particular group of people. As we have been through, the high roofs brought up to ninety-five o'clock. K. for public payers because we couldn't support the bill when it came out. There are 6,7 billion divided into groups. In effect, that meant about 120 of you. you would take on increased cost; some insignificant; others significant. Besides, dentists, psychiatry, travel expenses, aid tools, and so on, the Icelanders paid from their own pocket nearly 35 billion for their medical and medical services. It's not only that the induction of this payment system is changing the cost share. It is also providing health care support and helps to make it the first stop in basic service. I'm gonna say it here and now I think it's the best. The minister of health courage to bring this change into the council. It was also clear that there was solidarity in the bill's objective, to increase the share of health care, and to change the pay factor system. But they were very worried about money. Early conversations about how to cope with these things began. I'm going to say that the spokesman for the case, huh? paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdótttir, is particularly powerful when it comes to bringing about a complicated matter. She put on it, and she also has the position that people trust her during the council. She went out and talked to the minister and spoke with us members of the council, and then she told us that some money was coming in, but we certainly wanted something tight in that regard. As a result, a minister came to us himself, reviewing what he could receive, what he could achieve in the pursuit of more money, for of course he was all willing to do so, as a means of understanding as the minister of the seminary, and we were able to include it in the committee view. So we decided to sign the committee without reservation that we trusted the minister's words. In view of the funds coming in, we sign the committee opinion. If we had taken a warning, we would be declaring that we do not trust a minister's words, but then I would have chosen to be out of the question. The maximum annual cost of 95 is in nature different. K. or 50 of you. Well, that's an enormous advantage. There are also 300◯400 million who are being added to their health - care providers in order to strengthen them as the first stop, and that is necessary. This is the first step in the payment session, then we need to move on. That's what we're going to do in the Convergence. We are also taking control of long - term health development. I think it's important that we do it now because we're almost out of time. So, finally, I want to thank the highest. A health minister for the bill and celebrates that we have been able to gain more money and support for all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u22	Mr. President. I come up to agree with those who have discussed this matter before me and who have gone through the changes and other matters of the committee that were finally accepted. The bill is based on the work of a committee appointed two years ago, and much work was put into it. Here people somehow tried to take credit for the final outcome. I think it was a interaction of many factors, and especially because of incredible perseverance. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir, director of the case, and chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir The Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir. When you read reviews about how many people were opposed and felt that it could not work if there was no money in it, health care would never be able to handle the work that she was supposed to do according to the bill. They were highly critical, and they harmonized with what many members of the committee appeared with at their time on the committee, such as the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, U.S.A. This. In the bright future, we never came up against this matter, we thought it was an important first step in the right direction, but then when you went through two masks when you saw this could not go because of a lack of funding. In the last two weeks, they have what. Senators I mentioned earlier worked hard to get more money into the system so that men can settle down. That is why yesterday was very happy and the conclusion that came in and to the highest degree. A health minister should come to our home and inform us that this pot is available and that the roofs will be lowered next year. What a joy that was! In the short future, as others would have liked to have free service for children and to pay an older citizen and disability, it would be 1/3 of what others pay. But that may be the next step we take, i.e. Those who will remain at council, working toward that goal. There's got to be a lot of importance for everyone, and we're gonna be more like our control countries, especially with children's currency. However, a child's service will be almost free of charge by the bill if the health care is the first stop. But there are many things you would have liked to see coming into your health care, such as nutritionists, psychologists, and others. That'll be the next step. We must never cancel the requirement in our efforts to create here the most powerful and best health - care system in the world, we have all the advantages, human beings, and all of it. It's always blessed with the money that stops things but with the rising sun and the rising economy, when it's all happening as it's done in recent talks, I see nothing to stop us from doing this. This is to be our goal, for today society is not successful if the health system is lame. We know what it's like out in some parts of the country, I live like. in the South where health care is very low due to the lack of doctors and facilities to receive patients. Hence, you look at this pot with keen eyes and hope that it will solve some of its problems and prepare the health care provider for further patient reception. It is quite clear that if we have a strong, strong health system that is driven by the state and when it comes to drinking it, economic growth and production in the country will increase, that's just the way it is. It's all holding hands. But I am immensely happy, and we in a bright future with this conclusion and are on it. I had planned to make some adjustments, but I decided not to. We agree that this matter will go contrary to the good news. Thank you very much. A health minister, as mentioned earlier, for his courage and courage to bring it. You know exactly where his mind is. He has shown it. What a happy day this is!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u23	A respectable president. I recommend a committee party with a hearing of a change in proposal for a concierge of public college. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought visitors to review the reports received. The Conventionary Directive suggests that the People Colleges will be recognized as an alternative to education and that the work of public schools in other parts of the North countries will be exemplary. The Commission considers improving the diversity of choice of education methods in Iceland. The Committee reviewed the view that the concept behind the People's Colleges has idealism and practices lacking in Icelandic school systems. People's schools have proved to be well in the North countries, and in Denmark a large percentage of students attend public schools at some point in school. In Seysterskúðtur verdætur, an artist's high school is under the markings of the LungA. He began his work in 2014 and is the only national university in the country. In other parts of the North countries, however, people's schools are a deep - seated part of the education system, and each year some scores of Icelandic students attend there. The Commission believes that by paying the way of a local education school can provide opportunities for building such school activities that have a positive effect in the long term and can further the general learning skills of young people, provide students with opportunities to find their own strengths and thus improve learning and skills which returned back into the traditional school system. The committee believes that it is important to have a proper structure and correction for a public college that sets up a professional framework for learning, quality standards, and interaction with other aspects of the education system. The committee claims that the term People University is known in Icelandic, and although it is not a university education, the word that this does not cause a misunderstanding should occur. Although the demographic tradition is based on the student's skills rather than giving him special rights or rights for further study, the Committee does not rule out the possibility that individual high schools could create deliberation for a people's college at the front of a linear academic offer. These factors consider the committee to be among those that would be reasonable to consider with the Ministry's work in accordance with the synonym. The Commission suggests that the Council's Reunion proposal will be adopted with the only change that the 2016 Memorial will be 2017, with the proposal to submit a bill no later than the 2016 spring Summit, which is now delayed for a year. As mentioned earlier, the Committee suggests that the synopsis proposal will be accepted with the only change. Under the heading of Chairman Konráðsdóttir Konásdólsdóttur, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gnarsdotir, Haraldur Einarsson Marn Gunnarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þýfögvardðurdótir, and Vilhjálmur of Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u24	A respectable president. This is a bill for a change in social assistance laws and for the use of automobile purchases and auto benefits, including disabled persons and pensioners. In the 10th. The law has authority to give such a car to those who truly need automobiles, if it is necessary for them to live independent lives. It's only a general reference to this source. However, cases for a long time have been made this way in a regulation on the strength and improvement of motorized persons from automobiles, No. 170/2009, the challenge of these provisions is to provide a replete. The facts are in our opinion of transporters, and that I think of many others, totally bizarre, inexplicable, and challenging your ideas about human rights and the reasonable welfare of political science. So, under the Regulation, they require that motorists be able to obtain the strength of cars or automobiles that are different from their own driving licenses, and they see who they are now that they can be very difficult and that they actually rule out having driver's licenses, but they still need a car, which is absolutely necessary. However, if the people do not have a driver's license, they are restricted in the Regulation and the conditions that within the home, registered in the same law, must be a driver of the driver's license; so that people do not get this strength unless they have the right to drive themselves, which everyone sees can be insurmountable, completely insurmountable, or the other people living with a driver's license. This is the Commission to set up a requirement for the granting of needed resources to people, including People who are motorists, that they live with certain people; that is, they can't decide to live alone and get the strength. We, the executives of the motion, believe this will not work. I know that more people have offered these suggestions. I have participated in the previous council offering suggestions that try to remedy this situation. We simply suggest that there will be no doubt about the matter. All you have to do is change the Regulation and cancel this. The bill says: We're at 10. A new paragraph of the law will be added, as follows: Strengths and improvements in cars and automobiles should be provided regardless of how to drive a car regularly, since the car is being used to drive better people. The main point is that the car becomes useful to reformers, away from who is driving them. And it goes: It is illegal to bind insurmountation conditions where reformers themselves have driver's license or someone else in their home. Consider an example. For example, a person who receives compensation or support for a business or buys a car may stay with him and then be strengthened. Then she decides to divorce and not gain strength. This is simply a violation of certain fundamental human rights, with whom they choose to live, that there is no need to hang the means of living on the outside of which people decide to live. It cannot be perplexing, nor can it meet basic human rights. I want to put this matter in perspective. Here at the General Assembly, there has been a policy of taking up the user - controlled personal assistance as one of the main advantages of serving those who are disabled. It is a form of service that assumes that people can live their own lives, control their own lives, and that they can live alone if they choose. In such cases, this type of service is expected to drive the automobiles by assistants. It is absolutely absurd to be making the requirement to buy automobiles to people with NPA that the assistants have a legal home in the same place as the person involved. It just doesn't make any sense. There is something very strange going on in this Regulation, and it can hardly be challenging to bind the grantings of such conditions. We simply insist that there be no doubt that this is not the case by law or that the services of a health committee will be the result of a minister's changing the Regulation, which may be done on one afternoon and that the same purpose would be met. We are to have all laws on such matters, so that minimum human rights requirements are reached and people are trusted to decide for themselves whether they live with someone or not, that we do not require the means of granting them to live with someone they might not want to live with.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u25	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a committee party with a new proposal for action to support the cooperation of Iceland and Greenland. The candidate for the proposal is why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, along with others. It suggests that support will be given to the historical steps established by the New Yorkers and neighboring nation of Greenland have taken in recent years to increase self - control and that the government will be assigned to promote a link and cooperation with Greenland in 15 areas which are further outlined in the proposal and in the management of customs and to increase trade freedom, to increase cooperation and joint school activities at all schools, to expand research activities, including the work of the field. In areas of Europe, seas, weather conditions, fish stocks and environment, cooperation in marine areas and geology, the development of business agreements between economic living countries, cooperation in the field of medical and health services, and the building of a framework of large cooperation in those areas, promoting cooperation with tourism and the ability to make Greenland the destination of tourists that come to Iceland, cooperation and counselling in the fields of water management in Greenland, services with possible work on the eastern coasts of greenlands in connection with sustainable resource use, a common view of new seas, in addition to cooperation with climate change, increase in trade, increase in the North Sea-indust, if the activities of the Vening of the Vengonor's activities in order to further strengthen the political and urbanisations involvement in the environment. The committee received quite a number of visitors. We received reviews from Oceanographic Institutes, University of Iceland, Icelland's Group, Iceland's Natural Institute of Nature, Energy Institute, National Research Centre, Northern University of Iceland, Marine Association, State Department and Iceland of the Parliamentary Conference on North Poles. The committee offers a few suggestions on changing the proposal as follows: 1st Instead of the words, to promote relationships and cooperation with Greenland, by means of Article 1. visit: looking for ways to improve relationships and cooperation with Greenland, highlighting the following. 2. Following the word 'Environment', we come in: nature protection, acidification of the sea. 3. A new staff will follow, as follows: put together between the Greenlandic Geological Institute and the Power Institute, involved with the education of metals and other practical minerals, focusing on administrative, research and international cooperation. 4. Following the word "Environmental Protection" will come: and nature protection. Under count and these suggestions, the following representatives of the State Department are writing: Óttarr Proppé, Director Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, Chairman Karl Garðarsson, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Sigurjónsson Sigrándjónsson, Elín Hirst, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Árnadóttir Þóra Árjörnótir, and Össur Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u26	Mr. President. I have been on my way to a talk chair and have been encouraged to do so even in the past. Father of the house, boy. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon, who has the greatest experience here, to keep as far as I can best talk about cooperation between Iceland and Greenland. I'm never going to do this, though. I'm not going to do what I wish. Senator. In short, Mr. President, I'm only going to thank you for the release of the case. I'm going to move in particular. The head of the State Department, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, thank you for the effort to finish the case. Although there was no disagreement, I believe it is a success for Greenland and Iceland's cooperation that this situation is now being taken to that sea. At one time, the General adopted a very detailed North Sea policy. Since then, the government has led her to the utmost. It can be said that this is where we are pointing our projections at certain parts of the high-nortic partnership, i.e. what will be best done in the future for the cooperation of Iceland and Greenland. I expect the Agency will then do as best I can and as a result of thinking that it will contribute to that cooperation. Greenlanders are on their way to a measure of greater self - control. At one time, there was a national agreement on their will in that regard. That was a very firm conclusion. More than three fourths held the view that Greenland should take on greater independence. We're their next neighbor. We have a lot to share with them. This synonym points to a number of things, especially in the seabed. That's the only point I'm going to swaddle here in particular. It turns out, Mr. President, that when you consider the value of the fish that the Greenlands receive from the sea, it is much less than the Icelanders get for each weight unit once it's been restored to the global market. I think the cooperation between Iceland and Greenland could be of great benefit to both nations on the seabed. To the extent that they become somehow from their own natural resources, the Greenlanders are funded to the point of reaching out for at least what they receive each year from Dana. In addition, they need to be out of budget to build a welfare community in Greenland. Our conclusion to this conjugal arrangement in agreement with the Icelandic Seaship is this: If our cooperation with the Greenlands could lead to them reaching as much as we could for each kilogram of fish from the sea to the market, it would be a long way of creating the valuables they need to take the next steps to self - control and independence. That's very important. Especially is this so because in Greenland people have flocked to raise the money. Some have wanted to go on the way to extract it from earth's resources. That's very controversial. In part it can be said that the conference arrangement points to the possibilities of cooperation between Iceland and Greenland on the seabed. There is also much we could receive from them. There's a list of the council mishap proposals. I'm not going to go over it for the sake of time, only giving thanks to the head of Congress and the State Department for the extent to which this case has come.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u27	A respectable president. I'm no more than the man who stepped into a pit before me to extend the discussion a lot. I wanted to do only as my associates do when it rains. The Foreign Affairs Committee has done this before, thank you for this work. It's a day in which thanks goes amongst men who are outstandingly different in this regard. I want to thank you for how well this was done. We took the time to have guests and for us who do not know as much as our former Supreme Court. The minister of foreign affairs to communicate with those two nations was helpful and illuminating. I think that first and last time we're here, we're sending a clear message from a council to the government, which I actually know is being done in that field, about how we want to cooperate with the Greenlandians, we want to respect their status and will to do things in their own proper way, but we also want to make sure that we're working there, and we also benefit from that cooperation. First and last, I wanted to thank you. The official of the case. paritaprevir I'm starting to call Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson, an executive and partner -- now I'm calling him a partner as if nothing for a while, but he's in this field, okay? paritaprevir Óttar of Proppér and others at the Foreign Affairs Committee for quickly handling the matter and safely at the two committee meetings yesterday, and I hope that this will result in a good solidarity.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u28	Mr. President. I recommend an aluminium study with a reimbursement of a judicial proposal for 24 hours of mechanical ventilation in the patient's home. All council members are in charge of the proposal. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir. The proposal will consist of measures to ensure adequate management of the daily management of persons in need of ventilator support and general assistance to those in need of extensive ventilation; that assistance will be provided in the homes of those in need whenever possible. The committee regularly discussed the matter, sent it out for review, and received visitors. In itself, there is a relatively special field in the medical field, so that there were not many clients and complainers, but those who have become familiar were not. The MND members, members of the National Hospital, all members of the Icelandic Nurses' Association, the National Organization, the Management Board of Long - Sick Children and Iceland's Scaring Alliance. The committee examined the matter, and it showed that the general well - being was the dominant figure in it, that all comments were positive, and only in those indications that might be more appropriate in the proposal, and that the committee has responded by making adjustments. It goes on to expand the definition of this service, i.e. It is not always possible for a person to receive this respiratory service, or a ventilator, through a endotracheal tube. It is better to talk about specialised workers than specialised ones, since it is primarily about a certain type of training. Then, the most practical and reasonable way to fit and ensure needed rest measures was discussed. The conclusion is that having it more open than simply setting up a special home for the purpose, where good tips came from a Land hospital and others suggest that the first episode might be easier to negotiate such resources at operating clinics, nursing homes, or other such. Finally, it was decided to expand the group of work that the proposal is about to be appointed, to make sure that everyone comes to the table that has to work together to cooperate with the parties. The Committee therefore suggests that changes to the health - care group should be made in order to prepare the actions that the General Assembly would, with the agreed proposal, to decide that these activities would be undertaken; necessary measures to ensure this 24-hour service and that in the homes of patients, where possible, so that representatives from the European Union of Iceland and Social Affairs, he shall consist of the representative of the health secretary, responsible for the group, members of the social and housing minister, representatives from the National Hospital, representatives from the Union of Iceland and representatives of the patients. It is also emphasized that the group not only meets the proposals for the organization itself, the home service organization, how provisions for resting hospitalisation will be ensured, communication opportunities and training, but also points out in the research of the Committee that it is urgent, to ensure the smooth cooperation of all responsible men and to be involved in the case. It is both the health sector and the social sector, that is both the state and the community. Hence, we stress that the work force will determine how best to make sure that all of these members work together unscrupulously. Is it a cooperative agreement between them, in the spirit of the one who was brought up in the mental - health program, or with other such provisions? By doing so, we feel that we have met all the issues and needs of counsel that we received and that they feel alone, members of the welfare committee, that the proposal will be accepted. Finally, I'd like to say that it was my pleasure to be a spokesman for the committee. This is not a large group, but it is his right, and it is simply no less than being the sacred right to life, and, of course, society should do what is possible to make it possible for those who are in such trouble and who need such assistance to live as normal life in their homes but not, for lack of community resources, forced to live in an institution. This is a matter of human rights and fundamentals. At cost, we don't go much into him, but we don't think he's a big concern for two reasons. There is no question that this group has this right, has no hidden right to a decent life. Icelandic society and national dwellers have far more than the means to ensure this. Second, they are not large. We may be talking about ten individuals a year, and that does not mean telling anyone anything about the fact that countries and rural areas in Iceland cannot provide the best environment for their environment. This, however, is an enormous issue for those in that position, as well as for their family and family. The situation in which it is, if the options are inadequate, is simply that it is not a free choice to take advantage of these possibilities. It would be stressful for those and their families only to carry the brunt of their service and assistance at home. That is not how we want it. Of course, we want people to decide for themselves whether or not they will live by experiences, extend their lives for years, or decades in this way. There are, of course, moral opinions related to this, but the National Institute of Morality for the University of Iceland has been in cooperation with these parties, treated with them, etc. and we know that if people want advice on this subject, they can be searched so that we do not specifically discuss it. It is with evidence that we do not believe that there is any reason to reduce this in any way that the service will be under attack, that the service will be guaranteed, and therefore this committee's work will be fundamental and will require the application. There is no reason to be concerned about the scope of the matter in view of the possibility of few being involved, but it is extremely important for those involved and their families and partners and to become all of us ambitions to do better than we have so far. I recommend it and believe that all members of the Parliament agree well with this opinion and accept the proposal made by the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u29	Madam President. First, I'd like to thank a spokesman for the case. The welfare committee for the speech. I agree with every word he said here about the equipment and status of the people who need this service. I'm not going to give a long talk, I just want to stress that now the situation is very serious in this group. It seems that societies and countries cannot work together or talk readily about the interests of the people. In addition, there seems to be some lack of communication in the Ministry of Health between the Social and Homping and the Health Care Department. It's an intolerable situation for the people and their families. The changes the committee makes are only good, and I'm happy for them. I only comment on one point, I think the committee has a very long time to work. She is to return her findings on February 1, 2017, and I am pointing out that time is truly important and perhaps especially for people in the position to need the ministry, which needs a ventilator to survive. I hope, therefore, that there will be a rapid and thorough effort on the issues of the synonym. I'm glad the case is through, it was first submitted for over a year. We're doing it now, and the results of the Commission are coming no later than February 1, 2017, so it's moving. We hope that the situation will be resolved successfully and that the people who are now judged to be in a hospital almost in a hospital will be able to live in their home under the circumstances and the best quality of life possible. Once again, thank you very much for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u30	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a new proposal for concedition of growing milk science. The candidate for the proposal is why. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, along with others. The suggestion itself is on the edge. 40 and No. 40. A general and educational committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by visitors and reviews of the case, both in the current and in the previous council, when the matter was first submitted. The synonym is suggested to take action that ensures that students in Iceland are available for study of milk science. Since such studies are not conducted in this country, in the past, many modern dairy experts have attended other educational programs. Most have gone to some schools in Denmark, and the study has been based on the cooperation of the National Educational Committee on the United Nations and this particular school. The comments received by the committee and the information received from visitors revealed that the cooperation was extremely successful and was a major factor in the success and strength of the Icelandic milk industry. But now there is uncertainty about the future of study in milk science, and it has been done for some time because Icelandic students themselves need to be affected by the costs that have grown dramatically in recent years because of changes in school spending and working territory. Because of the importance of maintaining and renewing knowledge of milk in the country and the fact that a study in this article is not being conducted here, it is necessary for the members of the Parliament to accept the procedure by the government. The committee agrees with these views. It was noted in the Committee that two Icelandic milk experts graduated each year, on the average, over the next ten years, no Icelanders had studied the article since 2012, the average age of milk experts in Iceland was about 50 years, and in the next ten years 14 milk experts had stopped working because of their age. Newness in this article is slow as we have seen and there is a great danger of less recruitment than the need for newcomers to produce consequences for the Icelandic milk industry and other food industry where dairy experts are working. The Commission has already noted that the impact of the lack of milk experts can already be detected on the increased work load of those who are active in this country. So the committee feels that it is urgent to deal with the problems facing the industry. Since two to three milk experts a year are expected to be sufficient to maintain the necessary knowledge, the National Committee considers it more practical for the Ministry to seek agreements with the government and school abroad on Icelandic education rather than for any kind of study established here. Hence, according to this definition, the committee suggests a change in the wording of the proposal. According to the Commission, contracts with the Danish authorities and, first, the school that has been working together to ensure Icelandic students have the opportunity to attend a study of milk studies and the Ministry consult with the Scientific Society. The Commission also agrees with the views presented to the Commission that, in addition to national benefits, there is an equal basis for public interest in ensuring European youths who wish to study in small industry opportunities to attend the study outside the country. The Commission supports the Parliamentary conclusion, as it were, but it also shows that the same problem involves other small industry, such as furniture, wallpapers, cloths, individual branches of the bakery, uranium, firework, and small branches within the electricity industry. The committee therefore feels that it is important to promote a continuous renewal in these articles. Therefore, direct the Committee to the Ministry to try to establish similar negotiations with foreign authorities and schools for studying other small articles that are not taught here. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the Council's Reunion proposal will be adopted by a change in the form of an adjustment in place of the words, which, instead of the above, will be revised in the posing of a new study (s), i.e. milk studies, come to seek out treaties with foreign authorities and school for study. Under the heading, write why. Councilmen Steingrímsson Steingmursson and Haraldur Einar Einarsson, who were absent from the case and written under the rules set there. Then there's why. Councilmen won Konráðsdóttir Konásdóttsdóttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson son of Gunn, and then write to them. Senators Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þölvarfjörðurdóttir, under the supervision of other trades and professional initiatives of the Ministry of Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u31	A respectable president. For some 50 years, I have thought about the wording used in time and time, which is called national economic and national economic practical and economic benefits. I have no idea what it is after a long observation, and in this committee, it happens twice if not more often. What does the committee mean? I have not found this in any publication. Now that this is here, it'd be good if we could find our way into a textbook, and we could explain it. I've finished my case, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u32	...for a national gain.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u33	A respectable president. The Senator apologizes for this crisis, but thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's request, but it must be acknowledged that it may be difficult to explain exactly what the word means, especially in the light of the question. A senator has not found an accurate explanation for this in a long process. But what is meant in this particular committee party is that if Icelandic society really needs this knowledge, which was very rationally based on the Commission, the competitiveness of Iceland's professional life, even. in view of the fact that this knowledge is there, it might be more practical to negotiate with school abroad for Icelandic students to study there than for two or three students to start offering it for each year here. To say, I agree that there's an excess of the word "ethnically" and should really just stand: more favorable or more practical.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u34	A respectable president. I apologize for my emergency, but I'm just going to say that I'm asking that members of Parliaments and Senates use language that they have power over and that they're not doing anything that's usually used when things are going against them, they've become nationally practical. I'm not going to make any further comments on this matter. I've finished my case, Mr. Honorable President. [[For example: Are you against the milk experts?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u35	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank the General and Education Committee for the job in this case and declare my pleasure in the fact that it has been presented. Only about the study, some expressed surprise that one industry was being put ahead of another. But as discussed in the preceding article, more industry is faced with the same problem. I think it's very dangerous if we're not going to do something about it, and even if we take this step now through milk science, hopefully the small industry will follow. We cannot shut this portal off from where we get all this knowledge to the country. This is the only way we can gain knowledge in these trades to our country. I must also commend prospective students in these trades I have met and discuss with them the development of the situation for extraordinary patience and perseverance, and I work hard to fight for all these years trying to get to the study that they want. I stress that this is an proposed agreement with foreign schools, but it is not a problem in the country to teach this article in the country, as the proposed changes, to seek out contracts with foreign authorities and schools for study. I'm celebrating this very much. This has been a rather difficult birth, and much has happened in the course of the case, including the following: The Teaching Committee was laid down, and her work was handled by a professional committee. The Department's meetings have made no conclusions, so I hope that this will be an exercise. With all the cooperation we have with the North countries that is very good, I think it's amazing that there's no conclusion in this matter, and it really needs to go through a political process for what is so critical.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u36	Madam President. I recommend a committee party with a change from what it's about to happen. The Foreign Affairs Commission for a proposal to conspire on Iceland's support to establish an international ban on the production and use of automatic and self-controlled machine machines. The Foreign Affairs Committee discussed the matter in quite a number of meetings, and they included the following: to meet Hönar Hörður Helgi Helgason of Amnesty International, Margrét Steinarsdóttir of Iceland's National Rights Office of Human Rights, Eygló Jónsdóttir of SGI, Hannes Högni Vilhjálmsson, of the Synthesis University of Reykjavík, Kristinn R. Þórisson, of the U.S.A. And Kristján and Andri the son of Stefánsson and Pétur the son of Thorsteinsson of the Ministry of State. The comments on the matter were received from the Amnesty International, Iceland's Human Rights Office, SGI, the Soka Gakki International, the fake intelligence site of the University of Reykjavík and the CDC of Iceland. Transporters of the motion submitted to Congress have a problem. The members of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Bjarkey Olsen, Grensis's Gunnarsdóttir, Steinunn Þóra, the Árnadóttir of Aarna, and Svandís the daughter of Svavarsdóttir. As explained in the name of the proposal and its subject, and to the Committee it also stated, the plans referred to in the proposal are still for discussion among scholars and scientists, but it is not the stated policy of international institutions or leaders to establish an international ban on the manufacture and use of automatic machines. Because of this, a respectable president, the committee stopped for quite a while. It is, by nature, quite technical and complex, and demanded that we think only of the box in it, and consider some progress that was involved in the development and change in the production of weapons that may not all of the committee have worked very hard before. Therefore, I would like to call to the attention of the United States Congress that the definition of what is meant exactly, which was somewhat discussed in our meetings when it comes to automatic and automatic machines, is presented in the paper of the proposal for Congress. It says that in recent years unmanned automatic, self - controlled, artificial - intelligence machines have been developed and are capable of attacking and killing people on the basis of their own decisions and without human judgment. Rapid development has taken place, and the production of such automatic killing machines, as suggested in the proposal of the past few years, is thought to change warfare and warfare essentially spreads and becomes common. It is fundamental in this discussion that these types of weapons called automatic and automatic are not mediated by human beings and therefore may be different from the traditional weapons we know. This was discussed extensively in the committee. It also presented information on the work being done at the European Council, which has concluded on the use of so - called attractions and the need to respect human rights and international laws and to take into account these new changes. This involves a so - called resolution of 2051 from the Council of Europe. There, the European Parliament calls it "Environment." Based on the fact that the European Parliament's Member States set clear official guidelines for use, fully investigate all deaths caused by armed reduction, and make public results, prosecute those responsible for any infallibility and improve victims or their families. The committee, a respected president, was also introduced to its meetings that the United Nations has discussed the affairs of automatic and self - controlled war machines; now the last meeting was held in Geneva in April. Clearly, then, this subject has been discussed in many international matters. But we also received the information, which is part of the committee's reason for believing that it was a reason to finish the matter and to try to work it out in the best way, that the Icelandic government had not so far taken a special part in the discussion of these types of war machines in the United Nations. The committee specifically wanted to make this suggestion a matter of importance and the need for Iceland as a peace - loving nation to participate in the discussion and in a way that I did not doubt that representatives of all classes want to exercise themselves. A respectable president. In view of the fact that discussions on global bans on the use and production of these automatic and self - induced machines are no longer far better than the fact that the committee suggests a modest approach to the case or to its individual aspects, making some adjustments to the wording, but we feel that at this point it is not possible to take a firm stand on the matter or its specific aspects as set out in the motion. However, it is clear that this attitude on the matter is clear and that Iceland is actively involved in the discussion of the threat that must involve some kind of engine use without the means for targeted killing. So the Commission proposes a change in the proposal that the Council of the Council declares support for the plans and discussions on international bans on the manufacture and implementation of automatic and self - induced war machines and that the government will be assigned to monitor these developments and apply itself to the United Nations and other areas where appropriate. A respectable president. The committee suggests that the case will be agreed with the following adjustment: The suggestions are so expressed: The General concludes to describe the support of the plans and discussions of the international ban on the production and use of automatic and self - controlled war machines and to the administration of national governments to monitor the development of these issues at the United Nations and elsewhere where appropriate. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir was absent from the case, but literature was considered to be in accordance with authority at 4 mgr. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Others snarl. Councilmen who write under it, plus those here, are Karl Garðarsson, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason son of Bjarna, Sigurjónsson the son of Sigrion, Elín Hirst, Otttr Proppé, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Steinunn Þóra the Árnadóttir of Aarna, and Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson. I'd like to finally, a respectable president, to thank you again. A lot of work for this case and a faster job at the end, but we may have planned, but it didn't make any difference that we covered the matter very thoroughly, and on the final meters we found a common solution that I hope the entire body of Congress could settle down.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u37	Madam President. I'm not going to extend this discussion very much, but I'd like to thank you. The head of the State Department and the members of Congress who are ordered by the committee for the decision to take this matter into consideration. I wasn't necessarily sure that this would be the case when I told it in the fall, for many people felt upset. In turn, members of the council make the matter strange, even similar to science fiction. It has been interesting to observe the discussion of the Committee through the reviews received by the Committee, and to give a particular quote to Amnesty International, which states that the Icelandic Department of Amnesty International gives support to this proposal and points out in its review, with the permission of President Mrs.: ▪ Amnesty International has repeatedly warned of the special danger posed by weapons controlled by people that only a small or even no extent is involved. That's what this proposal is about. It is actually about weapons equipped with artificial intelligence that the human hand has nowhere to go. The organization also points out that the experience gained by the use of remote machine provides reason to give a warning not to create an even greater distance between soldiers and their weapons than it has become. That's what it's all about, because that's where wars are actually being moved. Experts in these subjects have said that the production of such self-controlled machine containing artificial intelligence and making personal decisions about who should live and who should die will change war operations in the same way that the powder changed it in its time, and the nuclear weapons later on, a mutant war effort can. Then I'd also like to call attention, Mrs. President, for a brief and more brilliant review of the state of the University of Reykjavík, which is the oldest and largest online research site in Iceland's field of professional intelligence: ▪ The option of assigning machines to determine which lives are to be destroyed and the ability to spend it is real and no longer a scene of science fiction. Without early intervention in this rapid development of automatic arms technology, we know well. We invite the General to accept this proposal and set a good example for the world. I welcome the conclusion. The Foreign Committee will be prepared to contribute to the Council here that the Allied Council will express support for the plans and discussions on international bans on the manufacture and use of automatic and self-control machines and will assign the government to monitor the development of these issues at the United Nations and elsewhere where appropriate. We can, in view of our peaceful past in peaceful relations with the whole world, be treated without the pressures of great and powerful stakeholders, who, of course, see the opportunity to launch such weapons on the market. I think all of those who have studied the matter can see how dangerous it is to wage war in the world and also to the moral matters that are really beyond our understanding in the world as we know it today. We have an example that results from such struggles. I specifically mention the fight against chemical weapons. I think everybody's down. Councilmen agree that it was a great step when it was decided to ban the use of such weapons. I really hope that Iceland can become a voice that is involved in international activity that the same can be done with automatic machines. I certainly hope so, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u38	V.E.G. President. I present the opinion of the Environment and Transport Committee on a proposal for the resolution of the establishment of a climate - control board. The committee has discussed the matter and has met with certain visitors mentioned in the Committee, as well as with reviews from various institutions that work in the field of the proposal. The proposal is to assign the government to set up a climate programme, which is the key factor in making measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in Iceland. It is expected that the Council will be given an extensive work on climate services, and multi-organized scientists will be hired from the world's leading research institutions and organisations. The final part of the proposal suggests that in the fifth year of climate management, a panel of environmental and resource ministers will be requested to evaluate its directives and procedures and perform depending on the occurrence of adjustments. The committee considers some coverage of climate change and the basis for the proposed proposal, including that it is clear that the world's countries need to come together for the battle against climate change and that the results of the late Paris Summit and agreement were reached at the discovery of a major step toward bringing up the nations of the world in the common battle against climate change. Refer to the reason why change is mainly greenhouse gas emissions from burning fossil fuels, and it says that to reverse climate change so that global warming remains within the manageable limits of this century for major social change. Visitors and members of the Committee were generally positive to the point of the proposal, and it was important to try to counteract climate change and its negative consequences. The figures have been examined and worked in these last few years, and for the Committee, they included: pointed out that by 2008, the Scientific Committee on Climate Change produced a report describing global climate change and its likely impact in Iceland. In 2009 the Environment Ministry Commission reported on the possibility of reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases in Iceland. The Environment and Resource Ministry has now entrusted the Scientific Committee on Climate Change with another report on the impacts of climate change in the country, and further assessments of the potential to reduce climate change are also under way by the university community. At this time, the Environment and Transport Committee points out that in recent years various public members have increasingly taken into account climate change in their activities and should be delighted. In addition, private sources need to be increased to take steps toward less greenhouse gas emissions and carbon binding. At the end of the Commission's view, the EEA's Council of climate is designed to play a broad role, and it will therefore serve a form of coordination with a view to the work being done on climate issues here. The Council is aimed at providing information on climate issues and not on the basis of specific studies or contributing to them. In this way, counseling is given to offer suggestions on how to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases to the government and to other Member States. According to the Committee, the order of the council is falling to promote the advice coming from the council, which would be appointed experts in the field of natural science. The Environment and Transport Committee suggests that this Councilhood proposal will remain unsatisfactory. Hv. The members of Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason, who were away from the hearing, were away. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " The members of Höskuldur the son of Þórhallsson, president of the Committee, Katrín the daughter of Júlíusdóttir, Einarsson, Elín Hirst, Svandís the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, Róbert Marshall, and the one standing here. In addition to the Commission's comments, I would like to suggest that when considering the case, it is clear that the Senate concluded that the government, especially the Environment and Resource Ministers, will take the initiative to establish a job of this kind that will be coordinated by a number of stakeholders within the administration system, as well as those outside the system, free organisations, research institutions, and others. It is important that there is a field of coordination for this activity. In view of this, there is reason to rejoice. I also wanted to say that when you see that this kind of project is being done in various parts of the system, the coordination is clearly clear, but it needs to be considered that it is not a new operation or operation that goes on with what others are already doing, but that is consistent with what is going on. I also believe that when the government implements this proposal, we need to consider whether there would be any intervening legal adjustments to highlight the authority and scope of the operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u39	President. I have given this bill a universal network before and first at the 139th Parliament, which lasted in 2010-2011. This time my importers are a whisker. The members of Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Steingrímsson Steingmursson, Helgi Hjörvar, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, and Óttarr Proppé. The bill recommends that people be able to in the ballroom, cross to names, select individuals to be held on the list, and do so on the contrary, that they can choose from all the arts. This is an easy operation, not a difficult one to understand, but it may be a little bit complicated to calculate it over who will qualify. That's very clear in a paper with the bill, so I don't think there's any reason to go on top of it here, more dignified president. But this system is still very well within the election legislation as it is; the election laws can be changed, and these are contained, the experts have done it carefully with me. I'd like to guess, sir, a respectable president, that in the U.S. National Court's Directive for a proposal of a new constitution, on 20 October 2012, one of the questions said: "Do you want a new constitution to be a personal election for the Council to be authorized to a greater extent than currently? 68.5% of the members answered yes. Even so, there is no interest in this fine meeting to satisfy the will of a greater proportion of the people in that regard. All the time I've been the first transporter to such a proposal, she's never been approved to a committee. I'm fully aware that the proposal is radical. As I said in the beginning, it allows people to vote for senators on the contrary to the list of offers. Some people think it's a bit much, and I've been asked why I don't ask people to move a bill with you that's going a little shorter, e.g. in that the classes can provide a list of non-translationers and leave voters to determine how candidates would be assigned to their seats, or, for example, in Sweden. to a certain ratio, e.g. 8%, the vote list for one candidate and then he goes up for others. That's what I've been asking. I have certainly wondered that perhaps this would be more likely to increase the zeal of members of the council for listening to the overwhelming majority of the nation's desire to increase the individuality. I have concluded, why should I negotiate with myself in advance? I've always declared it, in the talks I've held on to this case here, that I'm very willing to look to other ways of this; I realize that some people think that it's possible to choose people of different art. I have concluded that I'm not going to start making deals with myself because I feel that this is the way to go. I feel then that others, those who feel that it is too crazy, should say what they can think of, and we can discuss together to a conclusion. The fact is, in this house there is very little interest in increasing the voter's power in the booth. People come here from political parties. It's just that they want to control everything themselves, and it's a little bit more, I often feel that they're talking about giving voters more right. If they say, 'We're all willing to do this,' I dare the senators here in the hall to talk to their members who are on the board of administration and monitoring committees where this bill will go one more time, and encourage them to discuss it there and give them other suggestions. One of the things to be said is: Well, you can move on in art now. We all know, if we speak human language, that it doesn't work to spade out. In fact, it is possible to count again, but it is so ill - mannered that I believe most people do not know. It is also said to be dangerous for gender alike; there are lots of studies about it, and it is not true. There are no studies showing that with more than less personal recognition, there is more gender discrimination. I'm just saying, there are always some objections to changing. It would be the easiest thing, a respectable president, to enter a law that would be approved as a category, if it did not match according to gender proportions, to move into the list so that it would be recovered. In elections to the Council of Government, people chose characters. A set space was inserted into the law to allow it to match the sex ratios, but it did not need to be due to the level of gender in the selection itself. After all these years, however, we are wise to think that we may evenly choose the sexes. I'm not worried about this. I think this is one of the objections people always bring who don't want change and want everyone to think like them. So they say: If a personal term is chosen, people don't believe the political opinion they represent. It's just not right, Mr. Honorable President. Who do you think will begin to volunteer in a personal term for the United States, which would be an inexhaustible jar, absolute - some of them ordinarily, yes, I do. [[For example, consider the following: Some orcs.]] Now he really fucked me up. A respectable president. I believe that such reasoning comes from people who do not tolerate differences in opinion. We can agree, but there is a big difference in people's opinion. We're supposed to follow the big lines. We're not supposed to set a rule about tunking. Time's out, Mr. Honorable President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u40	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee of General and Education Committee for a proposal for a hearing of Salmon Hall to Glafrastone in Mosfellstown. There's a client of the Parliament's odor proposal. paritaprevir Ragnheiður, along with others, is Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought visitors to review information from sources most of which are linked to the current activity of the Glacrastone. In cooperation with the local authorities at Mosfellsville, the proposed resolution suggests that the Minister of Education and Culture contributes to the building of the Laxness site to the Glofystein in Mosfellstown to honor the memory of Halldór Laxness. If there be a center of knowledge about poets and literature establishments in a position of scholarly work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u41	Is it economicly practical?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u42	That's a question. As shown in a paper with the proposal, the previous 60 years had passed since Halldór Laxness received the Nobel literary Nóbel. The committee agrees with what it says that the turning point provides reason to consider the structure of a cultural building as an honor for the memory of the poet. For over a decade, on the Glacrastone, there has been a museum construction and cultural events. However, the collection has been closed for a period of 2016 and will remain as a result of its repairs as described in the review. It stipulates the importance of building a building to protect and secure the house. By building, the museum's possibilities could be improved to carry out its role. The Commission agrees with the importance of having access to the structure of a cultural facility that is responsible for promoting Halldór Laxness's contribution to Icelandic literature and honoring his memory, although this does not include commitment to finance. The committee calls attention to the fact that the Glacre Stone is on one of the largest tourist routes in the country, so it is important that the structure take account of this, both in the development and in the organization. This could be financed at least part of the job with the resources. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Under the heading "Unnur Hrafn Gunnarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, lineine Þorvarðardóttir Þölvardótttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason, and Helnasson. Then they also write the Guðmundur son of Steingrímsson and Einarsson, who were absent from the case and written in accordance with local regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u43	Madam President. I thank you for the opportunity to measure for a new bill to correct the change in income tax law in which the phenomenon is specifically handled with a thin self-finishment. Hv. The members of Congress need not be surprised that I am making a recommendation on this matter, as I gave such a speech to the council here in 2013/2014. Thus, the treatment ended after the matter had been sent out to the issue, and the report was received at that time. A financial and business committee suggested that the case be referred to the government in view of the fact that the committee agrees with the issues of the matter but felt that the transfer part had to be reviewed. Then it was two years ago that I began to be bored with the government. The living man asked the highest. The financial and economic minister of several times in the course of matters decided that it would be quicker to review the comments received, especially from the tax authorities of my time, which were very useful. Now that they have been prepared for reviews, this case is restored with the same primary objectives, but certainly with significant changes in the structure of the case. Of course, the objective of the matter is the same as before, i.e. working against the potential for tax practices that include so - called thin self - subsidies, promoting tax recovery, and seeking to ensure tax revenues from a work carried out here will flow to society and build it. V.E.G. A minister earlier this week spoke about measures against taxes in which there are good steps in such action, but I don't think that it was a part of that bill, hoping that it would be. The Economic and Business Committee will be given the opportunity to take this bill for consideration along with their coverage of the bill. Ministers and we'll find out if clients are more satisfied with the implementation proposed here. There is no need to have many words about this, for why? Senators are familiar with the matter. The term self-finance refers to the funding of a social group derived from related sources. The kind of money that has a thin self - worth is thus built up that can, for example, be found. has been an enormous debt, and a large percentage of the totals of debt is loaned from linked sources. When I talk about a person-in-law, I testify that the matter really is about partnerships, i.e. Mother and granddaughters. For example, if the funding of the aunts comes from a local motherhood who is located abroad. In a state that has a tax rate lower than Iceland, even a tax bill, the local tax laws and the tax rules of all other countries are more likely to promote funding in loans than in part, where interest payments for loans are subsidies from income taxes, but money is not. If the motherhood wants to take as much of her profits as possible, it is more economical, as it is today, that the motherhood lends large sums of money, which are then paid back with high interest, which, in fact, includes paying the society's profits, which should be paid out as a cash to the owners of the society, to the motherhood in the form of interest. This does not create a problem if all societies are domestic, where a sum of money at one partner comes to taxation in another, but the problem arises when the motherhood is located where taxes are more favourable than in the state where the subsidiary operates. That's what you do, for example. International enterprises make it easier to avoid normal tax payments by means of a so-called tax policy. Such cases have surrounded various such international companies, Starbucks, Apples, and others. We have seen that much of the world's affairs are taking place. For example, I quote that this discussion has been very prominent in Britain, it has been prominent in the OECD and the European Union. The original bill was based on a report by a staff group from June 2012, where representatives of the government and professional life were located. The original bill was actually based on its ideas in a group of people, but this has been taken into account, and it has been proposed to be of the regulations of the cross-cutting regulations, or the cross-cutting regulations as it is called, ensuring that taxation is nearing its actual paybacks. It doesn't have to be about this many words, Madam President, the purpose is that the taxation of those who fall under this bill is in line with their real estate. We don't have to complicate things. I've talked about it quite often in this fine hall, and I hope it's well. Senators know the matter. What has been pointed out in the discussions on this subject is that the enterprises involved may be negotiated, indiscriminate agreements, making it impossible to handle these issues in their cases. First, I want to say that of course, we look to the future. We look at this as a rule in which one thing is going on over everyone and we do not upset the competitiveness of the individual enterprises by having special rules for some and other rules for others, and we should be guided in the future when such agreements are made. It is also important to see if there is anything that can be done about it. I hope so. A financial and business committee, and I suggest that the case be referred there after 1st. For example, if she believes that there has been a sufficient improvement in the case, the Committee who agreed on the subject and the objective of the bill in the spring 2014 bill would trust to agree with further anti- tax policy measures that will be discussed in the Summit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u44	V.E.G. President. I believe that there is good reason to consider the suggestion presented here. I don't have a regular economic and business committee, but I think there's a reason to consider the developments in other countries that are both our cooperation and competitive countries in these areas. In such matters, it may be relevant to be intervening the trend in which it occurs so that we do not make our competitiveness more difficult or worse than are making some holes here that other people can use. I wondered, because of what. In its first form, a senator noted that this matter was not considered, in the future, in the state of the United States. A senator was to be involved in 2009 in2013, using such changes, since that government was generally not too hesitant about making tax changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u45	Madam President. As shown in my case, the initial bill is based on work performed during the last terms, i.e. The last government put together a team to look at this. Like what? A senator correctly carried them out a great deal of work on various anti- tax marches in the time of the last government. I can name over 30 shares of information as a matter of course. Össur Skarphéðinsson and Steingrímur J. Sigfússon bore the prime responsibility. I can name the CC rules that have been discussed here. I can also mention this group of workers who developed these suggestions, where, in time, different members, financial companies, financial security institutions, and the sector's institutions, would agree on how to handle this situation. I have to say, because of what I'm saying. A senator also mentions the international trend, that there are different ways in which information is handled related to the thin self-finishment of other countries. There may be two main methods, i.e. The debt rule and the EBITDA rules, however. In this bill, the EBITDA is used, which is in accordance with the opinion of the tax experts in the World Bank. This is suggested by the argument that it is more efficient and simpler in action and really is, according to my information on the OECD field, for example, as these cases have been considered, that many countries who have used the debt policy intend to switch to the EBITDA principle. Of course, it is important to observe these international issues. I can assure you what. A senator for many countries around us, e.g. within OECD, such rules have been adopted, whether left or right controls.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u46	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for the answer. I agree that this matter is basically a matter of taxation equality and that there are no special options for a particular person. I also rejoice at the things I heard in the speech of each one. A senator, who has come to realize that in recent years, barbarities and practices have been done, and so are still going on, are acting in a certain way against that thought. In general, in this regard I would like to mention that the most important thing is that there is a generally favorable tax environment for employment that allows companies to work in a natural and good setting so that they return to the community in which they work but that extraordinary jobs or individual businesses are not being taken out and given special discounts.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u47	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is actually starting a new discussion that may take a long time and will focus on how we want to behave. Hv. A senator is as well aware as I am that we have special rules. Last time we were agreeing, just this week, reimbursement for film making. We are also at the same time willing to accept special tax appeals because of innovations in which the film is reserved. Hv. Senators have differing views about this, but many times and times there have been the view that we would like to contribute to the work structure, even regional or job structure of certain sectors; and on the other hand, we want one system for all. I'm going to agree with that. A senator that as soon as I understand these views, it is important that we try to agree on what rules we want to apply; so that I take an example we've just discussed, it is worth the journey of not to rule out filmmaking and innovation and make sure that there's a tax appeal rather than a special system. This, however, is a story that we are very familiar with from our professional life. I think there is good reason to look for longer in policy areas in this area. Of course, a person would accept cross - lattice talks, but he would also agree with different parts of the country and different sectors so that we could get along on sight. This is where transparency is very important. I've talked about it here that I feel that transparency should be the main role of the tax system, and I think that vision will become more pronounced in the coming years. Hv. A senator here on a very important matter that I think we might have a discussion about late evening, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-125.u48	A respectable president. Just a little because I didn't get involved in discussions earlier. I want to thank you. The General and Education Committee for handling this council resolution of my and others and believe that there's the poet from the Glacrestein doing well and high below his head. Thank you very much.
